                                              Documentof
                                            The WorldBank


                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo. 36553- KH




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                     FOR A PROPOSEDGRANT


                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR9.8MILLION
                                  US$15 MILLIONEQUIVALENT

                                                   TO

                                               CAMBODIA

                                                 FOR A

                     POVERTY REDUCTION AND GROWTHOPERATION


                                              June 18,2007




Poverty Reductionand Economic ManagementUnit
Southeast Asia Unit
EastAsia andPacific Region




This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmaybe usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

               GOVERNMENT       FISCALYEAR
                 January 1- December 3 1

                CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
       (Exchange Rate Effective as o f M a y 11,2007)

        Currency Unit
         US$ 1.00          = Cambodian Riel (CR)
                           -
                           -           CR 3,977

                   Weights andMeasures
                        Metric System

         ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Assistance
ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank
ASYCUDA Automated System for Customs Data
CAP     ConsolidatedAction Plan
CAR     Council for Administrative Reform
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC     Council for the Developmentof Cambodia
CDHS    Cambodia DemographicHealth Survey
CED     Customs andExcise Department
CEFP    Committeefor Economic and Financial Policies
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CG      ConsultativeGroup
CIB     CambodiaInvestmentBoard
CLP     Council for LandPolicy
CMDG    CambodiaMillenniumDevelopmentGoal
CNPA    CambodiaNational PetroleumAuthority
COM     Council of Ministers
CPI     Corruption PerceptionsIndex
CPIA    Country Policy andInstitutional Assessment
CSES    CambodianSocio-Economic Survey
cSP     Country StrategyPaper
D&D     Decentralization andDeconcentration
DFID    Departmentfor International Department
EITI    Extractives IndustriesTransparencyInitiative
ELC      Economic LandConcessions
EU       EuropeanUnion
FDI      ForeignDirect Investment
FIAS     ForeignInvestmentAdvisory Service
FMIS     Financial ManagementInformation System
FSAL     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDCC     GovernmentDonor Coordination Committee
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross NationalProduct
HIPC     Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries

                                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                   IBRD        InternationalBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
                   IDA         InternationalDevelopment Association
                   IF          Integrated Framework
                   IFAF'ER     Integrated Fiduciary Assessment andPublic Expenditure Review
                   IFC         InternationalFinance Corporation
                   IMC         InternationalMaritime Committee
                   IMF         InternationalMonetary Fund
                   INT         Department of Institutional Integrity
                   IPA         IndependentProcurement Agent
                   IRITWG      Infrastructureand Regional Integration Technical Working
                               Group
                   JBIC        Japan Bank for InternationalCooperation
                   JMI         Joint Monitoring Indicator
                   JSAN        Joint Staff Advisory Note
                   LASED       Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development
                   LDP         Letter of Development Policy
                   LICUS       Low Income Country Under Stress
                   LJR         Legal and Judicial Reform
                   LMAP        Land Mapping and Administration Project
                   LNRM        Land and Natural Resources Management
                   M&E         Monitoring andEvaluation
                   MAFF        Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry andFisheries
                   MBPI        Merit-Based Pay Initiative
                   MDGs        MillenniumDevelopment Goals
                   MDRI        MultilateralDebtRelief Initiative
                   MEF         Ministry of Economy andFinance
                   MIME         Ministry of Industry Mines andEnergy
                   MLMUPC       Ministry of Land Management,Urban Planning and Construction
                   MMR          Maternal Morality Rate
                   MONASRI      Ministry of National Assembly and SenateRelationsand
                                Inspection
                   MOC          Ministry of Commerce
                   MOE          Ministry of Environment
                   MOEYS        Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport
                    MOH         Ministry of Health
                    MOJ         Ministry of Justice
                    MOP         Ministry of Planning
                    MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
                    MOWA        Ministry of Women Affairs
                    MOWRAM      Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology
                    MPTC        Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
                    MPWT        Ministry of Public Works and Transport
                    MTEF        MediumTermExpenditureFramework
                    NAA         National Audit Authority
                    NARLD       National Authority for the Resolutionof Land Disputes




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

NBC       National Bank of Cambodia
NCCS      National Cadastral Committee Secretariat
N C D M   National Committee for Disaster Management
NIP       National Indicator Program
NRM       Natural Resources Management
NSDP      National Strategic Development Plan
NT        National Treasury
oss       One Stop Service
owos      One Window Offices
PAP       Priority Action Program
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFM       Public Financial Management
PFMRP     Public Financial Management Reform Program
PHRD      JapanPolicy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
PMG       Priority Mission Group
PMO       Prime Ministerial Order
PPI       Private Participation in Infrastructure
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRGO      Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
PSD       Private Sector Development
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
RGC       Royal Government of Cambodia
ROSC      Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
RS        Rectangular Strategy
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SAD       Single Administration Document
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SEZ       Special Economic Zone
SME       Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
TB        Tuberculosis
T D       Tax Department
TFCP      Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness Project
TI        Transparency International
TIFA      Trade and Investment Framework Agreement
TWG       Technical Working Group
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
WTO       World Trade Organization


                 Vice President:      James W. Adams
              Country Director:       IanC. Porter
         Acting Sector Director:      Deepak Bhattasali
             Country Manager:         Nisha Agrawal
               Sector Manager:        Indermit Gill
              Lead Economist:         Kazi Mahbub-A1Matin
            Task TeamLeader:          Robert R.Taliercio

                                                     CAMBODIA

         CAMBODIA POVERTY REDUCTIONAND GROWTH OPERATION

                                         TABLE OFCONTENTS


GRANT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY..........................................................................................                                     1
I.     INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................                  2
I1.    COUNTRY CONTEXT ....................................................................................................... 3
            GOVERNANCE:REFORMAND CHALLENGES ..........................................................                                                 3
            RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSAND MACROECONOMIC

I11.        OUTLOOK................................................................................................................................    5
       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM:THENATIONAL STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
       PLANAND THE JOINT MONITORING INDICATORS..................................................                                                       13
I V.ALIGNMENT OF DEVELOPMENTPARTNERAND BANK SUPPORT .............................
V. THE PROPOSEDCAMBODIA POVERTYREDUCTIONAND GROWTHOPERATION                                                                                        ....15
                                                                                                                                                       18
            OPERATIONDESCRIPTION...............................................................................................                        18
VI.    OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION...................................................................................                                      49
            FIDUCIARY ASPECTS .........................................................................................................                49
            IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION........................................                                                          50
            RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION........................................................................................                           51



                                                         ANNEXES

ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY .....................................................................                                              54
ANNEX 2. GOVERNMENT'S PRIORITYREFORMMEASURES..............................................                                                             62
ANNEX 3:OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX..................................................................................                                       75
ANNEX 4: FUND RELATIONSNOTE...........................................................................................                                 83
ANNEX 5: CAMBODIA AT A GLANCE .......................................................................................                                  87

MAP # IBRD33381




The operation was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Ahsan Ali. KeithBell. Mudita Chamroeun. Huot Chea. Tim
Conway. Gloria Elmore. Mia Hyun. Peter Jipp. Sophorn Kith. Andrew Laing. RochLevesque. Kazi Matin. Peter Murphy.
Steven Schonberger. Eric Sidgwick. Robert Taliercio. Jennifer Thomson. and Albert Zeufack                                         .


                    GRANT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                  CAMBODIA

        CAMBODIA POVERTY REDUCTIONAND GROWTHOPERATION

Borrower            RoyalGovernment of Cambodia

Implementing Agency Ministryof Economy and Finance

Amount              US$ 15 million

Terms               Grant

Tranching           Singletranche

Description         The purpose of the Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
                    (PRGO) program (2007-2009) i s to provide support for the
                    implementation o f the "good governance" reform program laid
                    out in the Royal Government of Cambodia's (RGC) National
                    Strategic Development Plan (NSDP), 2006-2010. The Country
                    Assistance Strategy for Cambodia, endorsed by the Board in
                    May 2005, follows Government's strategy by recognizing
                    governance issues as the primary obstacle to growth, poverty
                    reduction, and aid effectiveness.
Benefits            The PRGO program (2007-2009) has three expected benefits:
                    (1) higher rates of growth and poverty reduction based on an
                    improving investment climate, higher agricultural productivity,
                    and more effective public service delivery; (2) a reform
                    dialogue with Government more focused on results; and, (3)
                    improved harmonization and alignment of developmentpartner
                    (DP) policy positions andfinancial support.
Risks                While there i s strong ownership of the reform program at the
                    MEF, there appears to be less commitment in some other
                    agencies. Elections in 2008 raise the risk of a reform
                     slowdown. Implementation of the reform program could also
                    be delayed because of weak capacity of public institutions,
                     especially at the sub-national level, which could impede the
                     implementation of proposedreforms. Corruption inCambodia,
                     also a critical constraint, has exerted a negative impact on the
                     implementation of the reform program. In a weak governance
                     environment there is also a reputational risk of providing
                     budnet sumort.
Operation IDNumber   PO71103




                                                                                      1

                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A
            PROPOSEDPOVERTY REDUCTION AND GROWTH OPERATION
                                       TO CAMBODIA

                                 I. INTRODUCTION

1. The principal purpose of the proposed Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
(PRGO)program (2007-2009)is to provide support for the implementation of the "good
governance" reform program laid out in the Royal Government of Cambodia's (RGC)
National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP), 2006-2010. The NSDP i s intended to
operationalize the "Rectangular Strategy for Growth, Equity and Efficiency," which was
adopted by the new Government in July 2004. The Rectangular Strategy placed "Good
Governance" squarely at the heart of the reform agenda. The CAS for Cambodia, endorsed by
the Board in May 2005, follows the Strategy by recognizing governance issues as the primary
obstacle to growth, poverty reduction, and aid effectiveness in Cambodia.

2.   The PRGO program (2007-2009) has three objectives:

a. To support a program of `second generation' growth and poverty reduction based on
   an improving investment climate, higher agricultural productivity, and more
   effective public service delivery. Since the early 1990s Cambodia has enjoyed over a
   decade of high average economic growth-8.4          percent from 1994-2006-which    drove
    significant poverty reduction: 35 percent of Cambodians lived below the poverty line in
   2004, down from an estimated 47 percent a decade earlier. The primary objective of the
   PRGO i s to support the next phase of policy and institutional reform required to maintain
   growth and accelerate poverty reduction by facilitating trade and diversifying exports,
   guaranteeing land tenure and increasing access to land for the rural poor, and making the
   budget a credible management tool while reducing fiduciary risk to public funds.

b. To provide support for the reform agenda by focusing the policy dialogue on results
   and undergirding momentum where political opportunity exists. The PRGO program
   provides an opening to deepen and accelerate the reform agenda, especially as it pertains
   to challenging issues of governance in Cambodia, and offers some insurance against back-
   tracking on governance-related reform. The PRGO program i s also necessary to support
    successful project implementation in key areas. The RGC looks to the PRGOs to
   showcase its reform program by demonstrating its resolve to improve outcomes for the
   average Cambodian. The PRGO also ties aid more closely to Government's performance
   on the reform agenda, which i s increasingly important to Cambodia's development
   partners.

C. To harmonize and align development partner (DP) policy positions and financial
   support through the CG process. The prior actions in PRGO-1 are drawn from the Joint
   Monitoring Indicators (JMIs) agreed by Government and its partners at the Consultative
   Group (CG) Meeting in March 2006. Progress on meeting the operation's prior actions i s
   discussed in sectoral Technical Working Groups (TWGs), where triggers for future
   operations are also jointly agreed. Moreover, the PRGO reinforces the use of agreed


                                                                                            2

    monitoring frameworks at the sectoral level, reducing transaction costs for Government by
    engaging partners around the same performance indicators.

                                 11.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

3.    Cambodia is a post-conflict country, and though the Paris Peace Accords formally
established a truce in 1991, politico-military violence continued until 1997. Many
important institutions of governance and public sector management, destroyed during the
Khmer Rouge period, are only just starting to be rebuilt according to democratic and
meritocratic norms. The conflict has contributed to weak governance, high levels of
corruption, and a fragile political discourse. Poor governance i s thus the primary constraint on
development in general and on the World Bank Group's program in particular. This section
reviews those governance challenges in the context of Cambodia's economic growth and
poverty reduction record, and concludes with the rationale for the proposed operation.

GOVERNANCE: REFORMAND CHALLENGES
4.    Cambodia's devastating conflict-many            important institutions of governance were
destroyed during the Khmer Rouge period and are only just starting to be rebuilt-has
resulted inweak governance and high levels of corruption. The Transparency International
(TI) Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) shows that the level of corruption in Cambodia i s
perceived to be high, though comparable to those of other Low Income Countries under Stress
(LICUS)*

5.    Improvements in policy, moreover, continue to be undermined by serious
institutional weaknesses, resulting in difficulties translating good intentions into good
outcomes for Cambodian citizens. Though public sector performance has slowly improved
in some sectors, serious problems remain (World BanWAsian Development Bank, 2003).
Overall, however, the RGC continues to be dogged by low levels of capacity, resources, and
accountability. The bureaucracy remains largely inefficient and ineffective in meeting the
needs of its citizens, and particularly that third of its citizens who live below the poverty line
(World BanWAsian Development Bank, 2003). In order to implement its development agenda,
the RGC recognizes that it will have to make much more progress.

6.    Institutional weaknesses, including the lack of effective sanctions for malfeasance,
have also underminedthe delivery of project-based ODA. The World Bank Department of
Institutional Integrity's (INT) investigations of 63 contracts financed by seven projects
resulted in declarations of misprocurement in six projects on 42 contracts (and a declaration of
non-eligible expenditures on one contract) valued at US$ 12.1 million. Disbursement on three
projects was partially suspended pending the execution of actions plans, which were
communicated to the RGC in July 2006. Progress has been made on the action plans and, as a
result, all the suspensions were lifted in February 2007. In addition, the RGC and the Bank
have agreed to hire an Independent Procurement Agent (IPA) to carry out the procurement
activities for the entire portfolio, and it i s expected that the IPA will be operational by August
2007.

7.    Recent signs, however, are encouraging, as the RGC has begun to implement
reform programs-in         private sector development, public financial management, and

natural resourcesmanagement-focusing on improvingthe capacity of the public sector
to deliver growth and poverty reduction:

       Private sector development-Significant       progress has been made in improving the
       regulatory framework for sustained private sector development in Cambodia despite
       the slow pace and some reversals in trade facilitation reform. The RGC has taken
       proactive steps to streamline import-export procedures, which has led to
       improvements noted by the Doing Business 2007 report. While Cambodia ranked 143
       out of 175, the study noted good progress in the areas of dealing with licenses
       (specifically on mandating a statutory time limit for issuing a license) and trading
       across borders. Procedures relative to issuance of certificates of origin and certificates
       of processing have been simplified. In addition, MIME, MOC, CED, and CamControl
       have agreed to joint inspection of factories that results in the issuance of certificates
       without further inspections required. The findings of the Performance Measurement
       System (PMS), introduced as part of the Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness
       Project (TFCP), suggest that these efforts have led to reductions in businesses'
       processing times and costs since 2003. Looking forward, full deployment of the
       customs     automation program      (ASYCUDA),        implementation of     the    Single
       Administrative Document (SAD), the creation of One Stop Services (OSS) in Special
       Economic Zones (SEZs), and the Trade Information Gateway (TIG) will facilitate
       trade, improve transparency of trade-related procedures, and lead to a further reduction
       intransaction costs for the private sector over the periodof the proposedoperation.

       Public financial management-The          Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF),
       together with its development partners, has established a best practice performance
       management framework for the Public Financial Management ReformProgram, which
       i s yielding major achievements in its first two years of implementation. Major reforms
       measures commenced implementation in January 2007, including: a significant
       streamlining of budget execution procedures, the introduction of program budgeting,
       and adoption of a new chart of accounts. These follow on significant reforms in 2005:
       the amount of customs revenue collected through the banking system increased (from
       zero in 2004 to nearly 1/3 in 2006); more than % of all Tax Department revenue i s
       now collected through the banking system; about % of Treasury payments to suppliers
       inPhnomPenh and Sihanoukville are now made by check instead of cash; the stock of
       old expenditure arrears has been reduced by over 40 percent; the procurement process
       has been streamlined, tightened, and made more competitive with the passing of a new
       sub-decree in late 2006; the Government has set up internal audit departments in a
       dozen line ministries, and, for the first time in Cambodia, a pilot program has been
       launchedto pay civil servants through commercial banks instead of by cash.

       Natural resource management-Some            progress i s being made in this area but
       substantial challenges remain. The Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and
       Construction (MLMUPC), working closely with its development partners, has
       considerably improved the pace of systematic land titling such that 25,000 title
       certificates per month are now being distributed, primarily in rural areas. The Prime
       Minister has announced the RGC's objective to increase the rate of systematic titling
       to 50,000 per month. In December 2005 the RGC adopted a Sub-decree on Economic
       Land Concessions (ELCs), which includes provisions for resolution of issues of prior

                                                                                                4

        occupancyhe of lands with local communities and requires formal classification and
        registration of land to exclude forests and protected areas. While the overall size of
        individual concessions has been kept below the 10,000 ha. limit established by the new
        sub-decree, the number and total area of ELCs increased significantly in 2006. Though
        public reporting on the status of ELCs i s now established, approval for areas up to
        1,000 ha. has been delegated to the provincial level, and areas subject to provincial
        approval have not yet been included. Legal requirements for prior state land
        registration and environmental and social assessments have yet to be completed and
        provisions for transparent bidding on ELC contracts are being circumvented through a
        loop hole in the sub-decree that allows for no-bid approvals in "exceptional" cases. O f
        great concern i s the fact that land grabbing continues unabated, while there has been
        no progress on the implementation of Article 18 of the Land Law 2001, which deals
        with recovery of illegally grabbed state land.

8.    As a result of progress in these areas and others, for the first time in many years,
Cambodia's Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratings showed
consistent improvement in 2005 and 2006, with the overall rating increasing from 3.0 to
3.2. In comparison to 2004, the 2006 assessment found that economic management remained
strong (at 3.5); the structural policy cluster rating increased from 2.8 to 3.2; the rating for
policies for social inclusion and equity increased from 3.0 to 3.3; and public sector
management and institutions cluster rating increased from 2.5 to 2.7. Other improvements that
did not lead to increases in the ratings were also noted across the board. Cambodia's CPIA
rating, at 3.2, i s now just under the IDA average of 3.3, which i s a major achievement given
Cambodia's recent history.

RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS AND MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
9.    Cambodia's real GDP grew by about 10.8 percent in 2006, following an
unprecedented 13.5 percent growth rate in 2005, marking the third consecutive year of
double digit growth. The stellar performance was driven by solid garment exports, strong
tourism receipts, significant growth in FDI,the continuing construction boom, and robust crop
growth in agriculture. Agriculture continued to be a crucial sector for the economy,
accounting for some 60 percent of total employment and growing by 5.5 percent in 2006.

10. A sound macroeconomic framework has helped underpin success in recent years,
with Cambodia's GDP growth averaging 8.4 percent over the period 1994-2006.
However, Cambodia's narrow growth base remains a concern. Recent and ongoing work-
including the National Export Strategy, 2007-2010,         the Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Framework, 2005-20 10, and the second phase of the IntegratedFramework (IF)
for trade-aim     to tackle this challenge.

11. External developments were also positive in 2006. Despite pressure from high world
oil prices, the balance of payments improved as the current account deficit (excluding
transfers) declined to 7.2 percent in 2006 (from 9.4 percent in 2005) and gross international
reserves expanded by 20 percent to US$ 1.1billion. FDIcontinued its upward trend reaching a
record high of US$ 475 million. Consumer price inflation declined to 2.8 percent (from 5.9
percent in 2005)' due to an easing of oil prices and a significant drop of price index o f food
and clothing. The consumer price index is expected to remain low (below 5 percent) for 2007


                                                                                              5

and the riel i s expected to remain stable both in terms of dollars and other partner country
currencies.

12. The fiscal front saw some improvement in 2006 as the ratio of tax revenue to GDP
grew modestlyfrom 7.6 percent in2005 to an estimated 8.0 percent in2006. As a share of
GDP non-tax revenue remained constant at 2.3 percent. In nominal terms, however, year on
year growth was very high: tax revenue i s estimated to have grown by nearly 22 percent in
2006. Non-tax revenue i s estimated to have grown by nearly 18 percent, but i s starting from a
very low base. Expenditure i s estimated to have remained steady at 13.5 percent of GDP in
2006 but greater emphasis continued to be put on the social sectors with an increase in
nominal spending. Total capital spending i s estimated to have increased modestly to 5.6
percent of GDP. In 2007 the overall budget balance i s anticipated to be stable at around -3.2
percent of GDP (excluding grants).

13. Similarly, the financial sector saw some improvement in 2006, though some
management vulnerabilities remained. Combined deposits (deposits in riel and foreign
currency) of banks operating in Cambodia rose by 43 percent and the lending-to-deposit ratio
has continued to trend upward, reaching 68 percent in 2006 (from 64 percent in 2005),
reflecting growing business activities in 2006 (business registration grew by nearly 50 percent
over 2005, for example). There are now 20 banks operating in Cambodia, an increase from 18
banks at the end of 2005. Cambodia also remains a highly dollarized economy with nearly 75
percent of broad money and 97 percent of the banking deposits made in U S dollars. The
commercial interest rate i s still high at around 16.3 percent per annum.

14. Financial sector reform, guided by the ten-year sector blueprint adopted in 2001,
has also progressed. The Government continued to pursue financial sector reform designed
to increase competitiveness, including privatization of the state-owned Foreign Trade Bank
and adoption of the Law on Negotiable Instruments and Payment Transactions, which aims to
improve payment transactions, eliminates legal uncertainties, and reduce payment system
risks. A Credit Information Sharing System has been introduced, providing commercial banks
with credit-related information on prospective customers, thus lowering delinquency rates and
loan defaults. The development of a national payment system and a comprehensive
information technology system for banking functions has become a pressing sectoral
challenge.

15. International and domestic conditions bode well for continued favorable economic
prospects in 2007. The four growth pillars-garments,                tourism, construction, and
agriculture-are   expected to continue to thrive in 2007 with real GDP growth estimated at
about 9.0 percent. Overall growth i s also expected to remain strong in the medium terms.
Increasing FDIi s expected to be sustained and the discovery of offshore oil and gas reserves
will likely bring about even higher growth. However, the garments sector i s now facing stiffer
competition from Vietnam's accession to the WTO and the possibility of greater competition
from China in 2008. At the same time agricultural growth in Cambodia has been particularly
volatile over the past several years, andi s therefore somewhat unpredictable. The emergingoil
sector will also pose additional challenges to macroeconomic and fiscal management. Strong
macroeconomic performance, underpinned by prudent fiscal and monetary policies, i s thus
expected to persist, though new opportunities and risks will shape medium term prospects.


                                                                                              6

16. The Cambodian economy is expectedto grow at a somewhat lower rate of about 7.5
percent per annum over the next several years, but growth will likely accelerate again
thereafter when oil production commences in 2010 or 2011. A non-trivial portion of
growth over the past decade was due to the post-conflict `catch up' phenomenon, which will
likely level off over the next few years. As Cambodia confronts stiffer competition from
globalization (e.g., Vietnam's entry into WTO), the high cost of doing business-
characterized principally by high corruption-related informal fees and high energy and
transport costs-will             also become binding constraints. As a result of these effects, growth in
the driving sectors will likely become less buoyant. The economy will likely continue to be
led by tourism, the garment industry, and construction, with agriculture providing periodic but
volatile growth spurts. Beyond the near term, however, Cambodia will need to diversify its
sources of growth to sustain 7.0 percent or higher annual non-oil growth rates. As private
sector development reforms take root, non-garment sectors should increasingly contribute to
growth. Agriculture i s also expected to improve its performance when reforms, including
those pertaining to land management, are implemented and when investment in infrastructure
increases. The external current account deficit i s projected to decline in the medium term.
Inflation i s targeted to fall to about 3 percent in the medium term program.

17. Cambodia's current account deficit for 2007 is estimated at US$592 million, a large
share of which would be financed by official transfers. However, the financing gap after
official transfers i s estimated to be around US$ 29 million and i s anticipated to be closed by
the PRGO, including DP co-financing (see Table 1). The financing gap over 2008-2010 i s
estimated at about US$30 to 40 million per annum.

        Table 1. Cambodia: ExternalFinancing and Sources2001-2009 (US$. millions)
                                                               v
                                                    2001  2002    2003     2004    2005  2006  2007 2008     2009 2010
                                                                                          Est.       Projection



Current account (excl. official transfers)          -348  -358    -497      -436    -591 -525  -592 -794     -806 -728
Current account (incl. official transfers)           -45    -47   -170      -118    -265 -146  -174 -352     -434 -408
Official transfers (net)                             303    312    326       318     326  379   417  442      372 320

Capital and financial account                         90    106    177       168     330  339   420  517      571  560
    Medium and LT Loans                               63    133    126       163     138  121   161  175      179  135
         Disbursement                                 98    167    162       182     158  148   185  205      212  175
         Amortization                                -35    -34     -36      -19     -21  -27   -24  -30      -33  -30
   Foreign Direct Investment                         142    139      74      121     375  475   557  619      492  525
  ST Flows and errors and omissions                 -115  -166      -23     -116    -183 -333  -298 -278     -100 -100

Overall Balance                                       45     59      7        49     65   193   246  165      137  152

Total financing requirements                         -45    -59      -7      -49     -65 -193  -246 -165     -137 -152
   Change in gross official reserves                 -64  -115     -45       -60     -77 -138  -295 -216     -177 -195
   Use of Fund Credit                                  9      9      -2      -10      -9  -82    0     0       0     0
   Debt restructuring                                -16      0      0        0        0   6      0    0        0    0
   Accumulation of arrears                            26     47     40        21     22   21     20   21        0    0

Financing Gap                                                                       . .         -29  -30      -40  -43

Sources: NIS, IMF June 2007 Article IV Consultation--Cambodia,and Bank Staff Estimates.

18. External debt-of which 35 percent is owed to the United States and the Russian
Federation-constitutes nearly 95 percent of Cambodia's total publicdebt. At end-2006,
Cambodia's total external public debt was $2% billion (31 percent of GDP; 22 percent of

                                                                                                                     7

GDPinNPV terms), while domestic debt amounted to 2.0 percent of GDP, one thirdof which
was denominated in foreign currency.' It should be noted that Cambodia's relatively high debt
stock i s largely due to the historical legacy of borrowing from the U S and USSR. The recent
debt policy of the Royal Government has been prudent, though an increasing volume of
concessional borrowing from China, and possibly other non-traditional DPs, i s being
monitored. The RGC i s currently negotiating debt rescheduling agreements with the United
States and the Russian Federation. However, discussions have stalled and may not resume in
earnest for some time. In December 2005 Cambodia met the Fund's criteria for the
Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative, which resulted in debt relief of US$ 82 million, based on
Cambodia's satisfactory performance on macroeconomic performance, implementation of a
poverty reduction policy, and progress on public expenditure management reforms.

 19. The joint IMF/WB debt sustainabilityanalysis (DSA) comes to the conclusionthat
Cambodia's debt is on a sustainablepath and that the risk of debt distress is moderate.
In the baseline scenario none of the five debt sustainability indicators' thresholds are breached
over the medium term. The NPV of public debt-to-GDP, which declines steadily from 22
percent in the baseline scenario over the projection period (as compared to the 30 percent
threshold) and the NPV of public debt-to-revenue, which stands at 185 percent in 2007 in the
baseline and declines steadily over the projection period (as compared to the 200 percent
threshold) are only breached for a few years in the most extreme stress tests. The
macroeconomic framework is, however, vulnerable to the weak revenue base in the short to
medium term. Significant oil revenue, however, would considerably strengthen the revenue
base and further diminish the risk of debt distress. At the same time the influx of official
assistance from China, which recently committed about US$ 600 million over a multi-year
period, could alter the debt dynamics if it continues at the same pace. Chinese aid i s provided
on concessional terms and i s reflected in the current DSA. In order to ensure that Cambodia i s
maximizing value for money from Chinese assistance (as well as other DP assistance),
however, it should be subject to rigorous investment appraisal analysis, to ensure that the
increasingdebt burdeni sjustified in economic and financial terms.

20. The major opportunity and threat to Cambodia's medium to long term growth is
the discovery of significantamountsof offshoreoil. The RGC has demarcated six offshore
blocks for licensing. To date, contracts are known to have been awarded for two blocks (A
and B). According to the Cambodia National Petroleum Agency (CNPA), the precise amounts
of oil and natural gas in block A are not known. Exploration by Chevron i s ongoing and new
estimates may be available shortly. CNPA estimates that oil production could start in 2009
and gas production in 2011.The most recent estimates show that oil revenue could exceed all
current revenue sources: 500 million barrels of recoverable oil at current world oil prices
would yield, for example, an annual peak revenue stream to the government of more than
$700 million (the revenue stream peaks four years after the start of production), equal to over
11percent of GDP in 2005. This estimate does not include government revenue from natural
gas production and sale. Whether oil and gas revenues translate into greater economic
diversification and poverty reduction-or         macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances-is             the most
salient issue in Cambodia's medium term outlook.


                            ~~~



IThis analysis, drawn from the June 2007 DSA, assumes that the Russian debt stock is treated according to the
standard Convertible Ruble exchange rate and the seventy percent up front discount.

                                                                                                             8

21. Both the staffs of the Bank and the Fund have concluded that Cambodia's
macroeconomic policy framework is appropriate and sustainable. The Fund's 2007
Article IV mission strongly supported the RGC's macroeconomic and structural reform
agenda. Moreover, Cambodia has earned consistently high macroeconomic management
ratings on the CPIA (4.0 from 2005-2006). Despite the soundness of the macroeconomic
framework and good progress on the structural reform agenda, the proposed PRGF has been
delayed due to a lack of resolution of the U S and Russian debt negotiations. However, in the
short to medium term, the delay of the PRGF will not likely jeopardize macroeconomic
stability or the attainment of the economic development objectives of the proposed program
(see the FundRelations Note in Annex 4). Moreover, Fundstaff intends to agree a monitoring
framework similar to that which would be used for monitoring PRGF quantitative and
structural conditionality.

POVERTY TRENDS AND HUMANDEVELOPMENT

22. Economic growth over the last decade has raised living standards and reduced
poverty headcounts. Analysis of trends in consumption and poverty in Cambodia i s made
complex by the limitations of the data. However, when comparing living standards within the
same geographical frame in 2004 and 1993/4, average per capita household consumption i s
found to have risen 32% in real terms (to 2,932 riels per day in 2004). In Phnom Penh and
other urban centers the rise has been considerably more dramatic.

23. The decline in poverty has been significant and widespread. As average per capita
consumptionhas risen, many more householdsnow have per capita consumptionvalues
above the povertyline, resultinginfallingpoverty headcounts(Figure 1). It is difficult to
measure the fall in poverty in the country as a whole with precision given the lack of an all-
Cambodia baseline in 1993/4 (when the survey was only able to cover around two-thirds of
the rural population). Within the geographical sampling frame of the first survey, the
headcount fell from 39 to 28 percent. Backward projection on the basis of this observed trend
suggests that the national poverty rate fell by 10-15 percentage points over the last decade
(from a projected 45-50 percent in 1993/4 to a measured 35 percent in 2004). Moreover,
though actual data are unavailable, poverty i s very likely to have fallen further in 2005 and
2006 due to the exceptionally high growth rates of those years, especially in agriculture.
Projections put the poverty rate at about 32.5 percent in 2006.




                                                                                            9

      Figure 1 Poverty has fallen in rural as well as urban areas albeit much faster in
                                                                                -
      urbanareas



          &
          -
          -  5 0

             4 0

             3 0
          c
          r" 2 0
           H 1 0

               0
                    C a m b o d i a A           C a m b o d i a B    R u r a l    U r b a n ( e x c l u d i n g  P h n o m P e n
                   e n t i r e c o u n t r y      1 9 9 3 1 4                       P h n o m    P e n h )
                      ( N B    1 9 9 3 1 4      s a m p l i n g
                  e s t i m a t e b a s e d          t r a m e
                    o n b a c k w a r d
                       p r o j e c t i o n )

      Source: CSES 199314and 2004; WB 2006.




24. Although the rate of improvement has varied considerably between groups and
locations, poverty reduction has clearly been widespread. The poverty headcount fell in
rural areas (by a fifth) as well as in urban areas (falling by a half in the capital Phnom Penh);
and in all but one of the five broad agro-ecological regions of the country. Broadly speaking,
women as well as men have benefited from economic expansion and rising average
consumption, as significant numbers of young rural women have found employment in the
new garment industry and improvements in primary education have started to close the gender
gap in literacy within younger age groups.

25. Rising levels of consumption have not only lifted many households out of poverty,
they have also lifted households that remain in poverty closer to the poverty line. The
poverty gap-the    average distance by which the consumption of poor households falls below
the consumption poverty line-has                  declined throughout the country, signifying that those who
remain below the line experienced less severe poverty in 2004 than was the case in 1993/4.

26. The picture of improving living standards suggested by rising per capita
consumption is corroborated by other indicators. The food share of total household
expenditure has fallen significantly across all consumption quintiles; conversely, the quality of
housing and ownership of key assets have risen.

27. Rising incomes and gradual improvements in service delivery have started to result
in improved human development indicators. In many areas Cambodia's human
development indicators are lagging other countries in the region. However, the health and
education ministries have progressed further than most in developing sector-wide strategies;
aligning policy, planning, budgeting and M&E processes toward these strategies; and
gradually reorienting priorities in a pro-poor direction. These fundamental improvements in
core systems are starting to result in improved outcomes.

28. Starting from a low base, the Cambodian education system has made some
impressive gains. Estimatednet enrolment rates at the primary level are up significantly from
65% in 2000 to 76% in 2004 (CSES). Lower Secondary (grades 7-9) net enrollment has more
than doubled since 1997, increasing from 7.6% to 16.4%. Advances in important indicators

                                                                                                                                10

such as literacy, repetition rates and years of schooling for younger age cohorts are further
positive signs that the rebuilding of the national education system i s taking root. Progress has
also tended to be pro-poor. While socioeconomic, rural and gender gaps in educational
attainment exist, these gaps have generally been reduced significantly in recent years,
particularly at the primary level.

29. Recently released data suggests progress on a number of health indicators,
reflecting rising average levels of consumption and falling poverty rates recorded last
year from the household living standards survey. Preliminary findings from the 2005
Cambodia Demographic and Health Survey (CDHS) suggest significant progress on a number
of output and outcome measures relative to the previous (2000) CDHS. Health service
delivery has improved in a number of critical respects (notably rates of childhood
immunization and the percentage of births attended by a trained professional). Health
practices are also changing, with a dramatic rise in exclusive breastfeeding of children aged
under six months. These improvements in service delivery and utilization are feeding through
into a number of health outcomes, with falling fertility rates, better (though still extremely
poor) childhood nutrition, and significant improvements in childhood survival (with infant
mortality rates falling from 95 to 65 per 100,000 live births, and under-five mortality falling
from 124 to 83). Maternal mortality (per 100,000 live births) has also decreased, from over
437 in 2000 to 343 in 2005. While births at home are slowly giving ways to births at a facility
(up from 32% to 44%), progress i s starting from an extremely low base, and there is a long
way to go. Although Cambodia has still the highest prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the region, it
has been successful in arresting and reversing the growth of epidemic (the estimated
prevalence rate for the percentage of adults aged 15-49 years fell from 3.0 in 1997 to 1.9 in
2003). Similarly, the TB epidemic has shown a declining trend.

30. At the same time, the Government will need to monitor inequality, which increased
over the last decade, due mainly to widening inequality within rural areas. (Inequality in
urban areas, while higher than in rural areas, has remained largely stable.) On the basis of the
data available, the report Cambodia: Shaving Growth (World Bank, 2007) concluded that
consumption inequality rose primarily in the early stages of Cambodia's transition to the
market (between 1993/4 and 1997), but remained stable between 1997 and 2004. If
consumption inequality remains at 2004 levels, it need not create any structural impediments
to continued growth and poverty reduction. Alongside this broadly optimistic conclusion, the
report notes some caveats regarding the adequacy of consumption as a measure, and
household surveys as a tool, when analyzing inequality. Data from the 2007 survey will
provide an opportunity for updated analysis of poverty and inequality trends in early- to mid-
2008.

THE REFORMAGENDA GOINGFORWARD

31. As the previous sections show, Cambodia has established a commendable record of
strong economic growth and moderate poverty reduction by relying on `first generation'
reforms and taking advantage of favorable external conditions. Cambodia has moved
from an isolated, low-growth, state-managed, and subsistence-oriented economy to a market-
based economy that i s open to international flows of capital, goods, and labor. Since the early
1990s Cambodia has implemented `first generation' economic reforms: deregulation of prices
and markets, privatization of state-owned enterprises, and liberalization of trade and

                                                                                               11

investment flows. Macroeconomic management, including a managed float of the exchange
rate, fiscal policy, and debt policy are all prudent and in these areas Cambodia does as well or
better than its low income country peers.

32. These factors, plus the reorientation of expenditure policy, have resulted in
moderate poverty reduction. The RGC has since 1998 significantly improved the alignment
of resources with its developmental objectives by increasing allocations for priority sectors,
notably education and health. As a share of total budgetary spending, the percentage dedicated
to health, education, and social protection increased from 19.5 percent in 1996 to 31.7 percent
in 2004, while the share for defensehecurity fell from 45 percent to 20 percent over the same
period. In the past couple of years the RGC has turned its attention to increasing spending on
the economic sectors, especially rural infrastructure.

33. Cambodia's high growth and moderate poverty reduction over the past decade
could belie the thesis that governance matters for development. However, growth has been
narrowly based. The garment sector has benefited from the Multi Fiber Arrangement and the
protection imposed by the U S and EU against Chinese imports. Tourism i s based largely on
Cambodia's Angkor Wat heritage and also benefits from strong demand throughout Asia.
Though agriculture has contributed to high growth rates in selected years, it has also
contributed negatively to growth in off years, and i s a highly volatile sector. Construction i s
largely a post-conflict phenomenon. At the same time, Cambodia i s not on track to meet the
CMDGs, and though there has been good progress on human development indicators, some
are among the worst in the region. Inequality i s also high. Thus, though recent progress has
been noteworthy, it i s possible that growth would have been higher and more diversified, and
poverty reduction greater, had there been better governance, including less corruption.

34. This is to say that the set of first generation reforms that served Cambodia well-
by removing the binding constraints to growth and poverty reduction at that time-is
now in need of a successor reform program. New bindingconstraints have clearly emerged.
On the one hand economic growth i s likely to slow over the medium term unless the
investment climate, particularly in terms of trade facilitation, i s improved and the agricultural
sector i s revitalized. On the other hand delivery of public services in the priority sectors i s
seriously hampered by weak public financial management and an impaired civil service.

35. A second generation of reforms has begun to coalesce into an overall program that
promises to revitalize growth and accelerate poverty reduction. A raft of private sector
development reforms i s needed to facilitate trade, improve the business regulatory
environment, and attract new investment, all in the context of fulfilling the commitment to
WTO membership. The potential of the agricultural sector needs to be unlocked by measures
that raise its productivity by addressing land tenure insecurity and landlessness. Further PFM
reform i s needed to remove the constraints to improving service delivery at the frontlines of
poverty reduction in order to move further on key human development indicators as well as to
reduce the fiduciary risk to public funds. The purpose of the proposed operation i s to bring
together these reforms into a coherent medium term package that will provide the cornerstone
for the second generation of policy and institutional reforms needed to diversify and amplify
growth while broadening the bases of poverty reduction.




                                                                                               12

       111.    THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM:THE NATIONAL STRATEGIC
            DEVELOPMENTPLANAND THE JOINT MONITORINGINDICATORS

 36. The National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP) 2006-2010, approved by the
 National Assembly in May 2006, constitutes Cambodia's medium-termdevelopment
 strategy.The NSDP provides an over-arching set of development goals and priorities with a
 results focus derived from the targets established as the Cambodian Millennium Development
 Goals (CMDGs: see Box 1). For the Bank and the Fund, the NSDP serves as the
 Government's second PRSP, following on the National Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS)
 for 2003-2005 (see Joint Staff Assessment Note, WB/IMF, July 2006).
I             Box 1.The CambodianMillenniumDevelopmentGoals (CMDGs)                                   I
 The CMDGs were derived from the global MDGs in a process led by the Ministry of Planning with
 support from the UNDP. The CMDGs consist of 9 Goals, 25 overall targets, and 106 specific targets
 covering: (1) extreme poverty and hunger; (2) universal nine-yearbasic education, (3) gender equality
 and women's empowerment, (4) child mortality; (5) maternal health; (6) HIV/AIDS, malaria and
 other diseases; (7) environmental sustainability, (8) partnerships for development, and (9)de-mining.
 In 2005 a review of progress made towards the 2015 targets suggested a mixed record, with
 achievements (including a significant fall in poverty; expansion of primary education; reduction in
 child and under-five mortality; and improved immunization and breastfeeding rates) alongside areas
 of concern (e.g. continuing high rates of rural poverty and low enrolments in post-primary education;
 persistent high levels of domestic violence and maternal mortality; and degradation of forest and
 water resources).
ISource: Ministry of Planning, 2005.

 37. The PRGO will support progress towards the MDG-basedgoals of the NSDPin a
 number of ways. The livelihoods of the rural poor-and                  progress toward the poverty
 reduction targets-will       be enhanced directly, through the policies and programs for the
 redistribution of non-functioning concessions to poor farmers and the protection of
 smallholder property rights; and indirectly, through the creation of a more supportive private
 sector environment for small and medium enterprises and for trade-driven growth and
 diversification. Positive trends toward the human development CMDGs will be reinforced by
 reform of the PFM system: the inability of the current system to align resources to priority
 goals, or to adjust spending targets and modalities on the basis of results, now constitutes the
 primary bottleneck to improved delivery of basic services.

 38. Cambodia's NSDP adheres to an internationally recognized set of core poverty
 reduction strategy principles (see Box 2) and provides the strategic framework under
 which sectoral and sub-nationalplansare elaborated. The NSDP and corresponding sector
 strategies should serve as the basis for future three-year rolling investment plans and annual
 budgets, and for aligning ODA to Government priorities. The NSDP includes a projection for
 budget allocation by sector, with a breakdown for rural and urban areas intendedto help target
 poverty in rural areas.

 39. The Government is in the process of implementingkey reforms from the NSDP,
 and these are jointly agreed and monitored by the collective DP community. The Joint
 Monitoring Indicators (JMIs) represent the highest priorities for the RGC and their


                                                                                                   13

implementationi s closely monitored (see Annex 3 for the 2006 JMIs as well as the draft 2007
JMIs). The JMIs encompass key reforms ranging across all sectors and issues, including anti-
corruption, legal and judicial reform, public administration, decentralization, public financial
management, private sector development, agriculture, infrastructure, gender equality, and
natural resource management. Overall, Cambodia's development partners have recognized
good progress in a number of areas, including decentralization, public financial management,
infrastructure, gender equality, private sector development, and some aspects of natural
resources management.

40. Cambodia's progress was recognized by all development partners at the 2006 CG
Meeting, at which DPs were encouraged by the recent progress that Cambodia had made, and
recognized it by pledging $601 million in aid, a 20 percent increase as compared with pledges
made in December 2004. This was in sharp contrast to the 2004 C G Meeting where the
overall aid pledged had fallen as the World Bank and the ADB both cut back due to
Cambodia's poor performance on governance indicators. The reduction in aid by both
multilateral development banks had a significant impact on the RGC and brought home the
message that in the future, aid would be closely linked to Cambodia's performance, especially
on governance issues.

41. At the same time, however, development partners agree that reforms needed to be
accelerated in a number of areas, most notably anti-corruption, legal and judicial
reform, and natural resources management, especially forestry. The anti-corruption law
has been drafted, though concerns remain about whether the draft meets international best
practice and though pending since 2004, it i s not clear when the law will be sent to the
National Assembly. With support from the Bank, the Government adopted a Legal and
Judicial Reform (LJR) Strategy in June 2003. Priority actions with regard to LJR were agreed
at the consultative group (CG) meeting in December 2004. These focused on the passing of
eight key laws (Criminal Code, Criminal Procedure, Civil Code, Civil Procedure, Law on
Anti-Corruption, Law on the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, Law on the Organization
and Functioning of the Courts, and Law on the Status of Judges and Prosecutors). The past
year has seen some progress on the drafting of these laws, and the civil procedure code was
passed by the National Assembly in June 2006. Issues related to the forestry sector also
remain problematic-the    recent Inspection Panel report highlights the problems that the Bank
has faced in this sector and given the apparent inability of the Government to successfully
fight forest crime, a consensus has yet to emerge on a clear way forward. Progress in public
administration has also been minimal, as reflected in the low CPIA rating for public sector
management and institutions.




                                                                                             14

   Box 2. National Plans as Poverty Reduction Strategies: Core Principles inEast Asia

A regional Forum on National Plans as Poverty Reduction Strategies in East Asia was held in
Vientiane on April 4-6, 2006. This was the third in a series of conferences on poverty reduction
strategies and, like the first two, was organized jointly by the World Bank, IMF, ADB, and UNDP.
The main objectives of the Forum were: (1) to exchange experiences with formulating and
implementing national plans and poverty reduction strategies among the six countries of the region
that have participated in the PRSP initiative-Cambodia,       Indonesia, Lao PDR, Mongolia, Timor-
Leste, and Vietnam-as     well as the experiences in formulating national plans in China and Thailand;
and, (2) to agree on core principles for continuing these efforts and discuss next steps by governments
and development agencies.

It was agreed that the five-year experience with PRSPs has helped in identifying the core principles of
a successful poverty reduction strategy: Broad participation: consultation and transparency in
formulating development strategies; Poverty focus: a greater poverty focus in the policies and
programs that comprise these development strategies; Results orientation: better monitoring of the
results expected from implementing these policies, better evaluation systems, and a tighter feedback
to policymaking; and DP harmonization: alignment of assistance with country priorities and
synchronization of aid cycles and reporting mechanisms with country processes.

Source:http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/COUNTRIES/EASTASIAPACIFICEXT/O,,contentMD
K:20862416-menuPK:2098868-uagePK:64002643-~iPK:64002619-theSitePK:226301,OO.html

      IV. ALIGNMENT OF DEVELOPMENTPARTNER AND BANK SUPPORT

COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY

42. The CAS, which covers the period FY05-08, complements the NSDP's focus on
strengthening governance and reducing poverty. The PRGO i s designed to support the
implementation of the CAS objectives, which are directed at tackling the governance
constraints to inclusive, sustainable growth and pro-poor service delivery through support to
PSD, PFM, NRM and decentralization and deconcentration (D&D), which includes
mechanisms for establishing social accountability. For both PSD and PFM the government
has well-developed sector strategies and programs in place and has begun implementation,
thus the CAS and the PRGO objectives with respect to PSD and PFM are mainly to support
implementation of the Government's programs. For the remaining two objectives: NRM,
which includes land, and D&D, the Government's strategies and programs are at much earlier
stages of development.

COLLABORATION WITH IMFAND OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS

43. Bank-Fund collaboration involves two levels of dialogue, through the policy based
lending program and AAA. Bank-Fund collaboration, as well as collaboration with other
DPs, occurs overall at the level of the National Strategic Development Plan. Inaddition, close
coordination occurs at the level of the Technical Working Groups in PFM, PSD, Land
Management, and Forestry and Environment.

44. The Bank and Fund staffs have coordinated closely on the proposed PRGF and
PRGO programs and have worked under streamlined conditionality arrangements. The

                                                                                                    15

Bank and Fundhave ensured that proposed conditionalities (and structural policy aims in the
Article IV consultations) are complementary and mutually reinforcing. The Fund's PRGF,
which was originally scheduled to be presented to its Executive Board in October 2005, has
been delayed due to ongoing discussions between Cambodia's bilateral discussions with both
the United States and Russia regarding concessional debt rescheduling scenarios. It i s
uncertain when the PRGF may be presentedto the Fund's Board, though presentation in 2007
i s highly unlikely.

45. Discussions with other DPs on co-financing the operation are at an advanced stage.
DFID has indicated that it would like to provide up to S1.5 million of budget support to the
RGC in 2007, rising to E2 million in 2008 depending on satisfactory performance. DFID will
seek approval from Ministers after the PRGO has been approved by the World Bank's board.
JBIC supports the PRGO framework and actions agreed between the RGC and DPs as a
potential financial partner of the RGC subject to the approval of the Japanese Government.
JBIC also welcomes the progress of policy reforms agreed upon by the RGC and DPs. The
EuropeanCommission (EC), in line with its international commitments on harmonization and
alignment and in response to the RGC's request to increase program-based budgetary aid, has
confirmed its intention to support the implementation of the NSDP via the provision of a
multi-annual Direct Budget Support operation anchored to the WB-led PRGO. The
Commission i s planning to provide 35% of its Multi Annual Indicative Programme (approved
in March 2007 and equal to a total of Euro 77 million for the period 2007-2010) as budgetary
support pending the approval of the EU Member States and the European Parliament, with a
view to obtaining a Commission Financing Decision in October 2007. The first annual
disbursement will relate to the successful achievement of all the PRGO-1 triggers and should
be disbursedby the endof the year. CIDA i s developing a Country Strategy for Cambodia that
i s aligned with the NSDP and harmonized with the programs of other DPs. CIDA supports in
principle the PRGO approach linking multi-donor budget support to the key reforms agreed by
the RGC in the policy matrix. The CIDA team i s presently seeking approval for a contribution
to the PRGO covering all three operations. CIDA would likely request its funding be provided
through a World Bank trust fund. If the proposal to support the PRGO is approved, CIDA
would likely be able to make a first contribution in the calendar year 2007.

46. The CAS also recognized a need to improve DP coordination and partnerships.
Poor governance has encouraged DPs to adopt short-term approaches to development
effectiveness (e.g., stand-alone projects often managed by foreign consultants) and allowed for
uncoordinated aid. Conversely, poor DP coordination and inadequate outreach to civil society
have accentuated the problems of weak governance (by imposing hightransaction costs for all
stakeholders; providing conflicting messages to the Government and undermining the
evolution of a government-owned vision of development; and closing off opportunities for
learning, scaling up or building effective constituencies to tackle the most challenging
reforms). Much progress has been made over the past three years.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS AND RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK
OPERATIONS

47. A catalytic program of AAA work has been carried out in each of the three PRGO
areas. In PSD the Investment Climate Assessment (2004) served as a key input to Cambodia's
private sector development strategy and the Bank's subsequent investment project. The

                                                                                             16

report's recommendations focused on improving trade facilitation practices, integrating
markets through institutions such as private value chains, and injecting competition and
transparency in private participation in infrastructure. In PFM the Zntegrated Fiduciary
Assessment and Public Expenditure Review (2003), which was followed by the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (2004) and a Public Expenditure Tracking Survey in
Education (2005), served as the key input to the RGC's PFM Reform Program. The IFAPER
yielded four principal findings: (1) resource mobilization must be improved to ensure fiscal
sustainability; (2) weaknesses in the public financial management system create unacceptably
high levels of fiduciary risk to public funds; (3) in order to meet poverty reduction targets the
Government will need to improve the effectiveness of public spending by more tightly linking
it with priority outcomes and by reallocating resources away from lower priority sectors and
functions; and (4) given the serious problems afflicting the civil service-low   pay, low skills,
and thus low capacity-strategic      civil service reform will have to be initiated in the short
term. In NRM a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (2004) was carried out in support of
plans to implement a program of social land concessions, and a Rural Sector Strategy Note
(2005) establishes a broad framework to explore options for Cambodia's future directions for
rural development. The objective of the PSIA was to assess the likely poverty and social
impacts of implementation of RGC's Sub-decree on Social Land Concessions, including the
implementation challenges and determinants of successful performance.

48. In order to make progress it is necessary that the Bank and other DPs assist the
RGC with all available instruments-including              investment projects, and PRGOs-
especially given weak implementation capacity. In each of the three PRGO areas the Bank
has on-going and future projects planned. The PRGO i s an important complement to the
investment projects, which are focusing on capacity development and implementation of
reform measures. The PRGO addresses high level policy change and cross-sectoral issues.
Both development policy and investment operations are needed in the Cambodian context,
given the institutional and political challenges inplace:

        Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness Project (2005, US$ 10 million): The project's
        objective i s to support the Government's strategy to promote economic growth by
        reducing transaction costs associated with trade and investment, introducing
        transparency in investment processes, and facilitating access of enterprises to export
        markets. The project focuses on trade facilitation, export promotion, fostering private
        participation in infrastructure, and legal transparency.

        Public Financial Management and Accountability Proiect (2006, US$ 14 million): In
        order to set the stage for improved service delivery and reduced corruption, the
        objective of the project i s to improve public financial management by strengthening:
        (1) the mobilization of public resources, (2) the management of public resources, (3)
        the management of human resources, and (4) external audit capacity. The project
        focuses on revenue management, budget formulation and execution, capacity
        development, and external audit. The project i s co-financed by a US$ 17 million
        Multi-Donor PFM Trust Fund (2005), managed by the Bank, and supported by
        AusAID, DFID,EC, and Sida.
        Land Management and Administration Proiect (2002, US$ 24 million): The goals of
        the project are to reduce poverty, promote social stability, and stimulate economic
        development. The specific objectives of the project are to improve land tenure security

                                                                                               17

        and promote the development of efficient land markets. These objectives will be
        achieved through: (1) development of national policies, the regulatory framework, and
        institutions for land administration; (2) issuance and registration of titles in urban and
        rural areas; and (3) establishment of an efficient and transparent land administration
         system. A proposed Land for Social and Economic Development Project (FY08) i s
        under preparation.

      V. THE PROPOSEDCAMBODIA POVERTYREDUCTIONAND GROWTH
                                             OPERATION

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION
49. PRGO-1,the first in a series of three proposedannualoperations,would selectively
focus on the key reform areas of private sector development (PSD), public financial
management(PFM), and natural resourcemanagement (includingland).Of these areas
public financial management and private sector development are the most advanced in terms
of agreement on reform measures. These areas would provide the prior actions for PRGO-1
and the triggers for PRGO-2 and PRGO-3. To help reduce the burden of multiple
conditionalities, all o f these prior actions are derived from either actions agreed at the 2006
CG meeting, or from sectoral strategy commitments agreed by the relevant technical working
groups (see Box 3).


                       Box3. GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality
Principle1:Reinforce Ownership
The operation is anchored in the overall framework of the National Strategic Development Plan
adopted in 2006 by the National Assembly. The prior actions for PRGO-1 are drawn from the Joint
Monitoring Indicators (JMIs) of the Cambodia Development Cooperation Forum. The JMIs are
regularly discussed, including by civil society organizations and in the press. The Government has
developed a track record of policy and institutional reformover the past fifteen years. Going forward,
the Bank's support strategically focuses on policy areas where there are Government counterparts
who want to progress the reform agenda. The Bank's analytical work program has been instrumental
in assisting the government to design reformprograms.
Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountabilityframework
The Bank's support is summarized in a brief, focused joint policy matrix. The matrix has been
developed in full coordination with the relevant government agencies and has relied to a very large
extent on the actions already agreed inthe joint Government-Development Partner Technical Working
Groups (TWG). The matrix i s routinely discussed in the relevant TWGs both in terms of progress on
the prior actions and on thinking about future triggers. Other development partners planning budget
support are usingthe samejoint matrix for their operations.
Principle 3: Customize the accountabilityframework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
The timing of the first operation i s not ideally aligned with the budget cycle, due to the need to pace
reforms in a "step by step" manner. At present the Bank is prioritizing a feasible, sustainable pace of
reform over the timing of the operation. However, the cycle of operations will be better aligned with
the budget cycle in subsequent operations. There is evidence that that the actions and triggers
genuinely reflect the Government's policy priorities; most of the actions are drawn directly from
:xisting sectoral reform programs, such as the Public Financial Management Reform Program, the


                                                                                                     18

Private Sector Development Strategy, and the Land Policy Statement. The framework includes some
sensitive policy reform issues, but only those which are supported by high level officials.
Principle4: Choose only actions criticalfor achieving resultsas conditionsof disbursement
The Bank's policy matrix uses only a limited set of conditions (10 in total per year) and highlights
only a maximum of 20 benchmarks per year. Conditionality i s focused on critical issues, including the
adoption of laws by parliament.
Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-
basedfinancial support
There is a regular cycle of performance reviews embedded in the operation through the regular
monitoring of the TWGs and the Government-Donor Coordination Committee, which meets quarterly
at the ministerial/head of agency level to review progress and challenges. Individual TWGs also
produce regular progress reports. The operation only undertakes additional assessment when existing
reports and mechanisms are lacking. The process i s increasingly promoting a focus on results. The
policy matrix also contains jointly agreed performance indicators drawn from sectoral reform plans
and TWGs.


50. The operation's development objective is to support `second generation' growth
and poverty reduction based on an improving business climate, higher agricultural
productivity, and more effective public service delivery. The PRGO will support the next
phase of policy and institutional reform required to maintain growth and accelerate poverty
reduction by facilitating trade and diversifying exports, guaranteeing land tenure and
increasing access to land for the rural poor, and making the budget a credible management
tool and reducing fiduciary risk to public funds. The PRGO program would support outcomes
that are driven by policy measures and expenditure policy, both of which are supported by the
DP community as necessary for underpinning medium term growth and accelerating poverty
reduction. PRGO-1 features 10 prior actions across private sector development, public
financial management, and land and natural resource management (Table 2):

                   Table 2. Summary of Progress on PRGO-1Prior Actions
 I               PRGO-1PriorActions                        I                   Status                    I

          Issuanceof Prime Ministerial Order requiringall   Achieved: The PMO has beenissued, and the
          relevant agencies to define their critical data S A D was prepared and its technical
          needs for the adoption of a single administrative configurationand layouthavebeencompleted.
          document (SAD)                                    The effectiveuse of the S A D is expectedto
                                                            happeninthe third quarter of 2007.
          Issuea sub-decreeand implementingregulations      On track: The sub-decreewas issued.The risk
          on trade facilitation through a risk management   management strategy is expectedto bejointly
          approachto inspectionsand clearance of imports implementedwith ASYCUDA by end-2007.
          and exports of goods
      3.  Adopt sub-decreesestablishing Special             Achieved: The sub-decrees were issuedand an
          Economic Zones (SEZs) and an SEZ Boardin          SEZ Boardestablished.
          CDC


      4.  Fortifydecentralizedprocurementby                 Achieved: The Prakason the Implementation
          strengthening the 1995 procurement sub-decree     of DeconcentratedPublic Procurement was
          and the 1998 implementingregulations to           issuedon January 3,2005 and an amended
          promote economy, efficiency, and transparency     1995 Sub-decreeonPublicProcurement was
                                                            issuedon October 28, 2006 (the corresponding


                                                                                                        19

                                                             revised 1998 implementing rules and
                                                             regulations were issued on January 23,2007)


      5.  Develop and implement first phase of new           Achieved: The first phase of streamlined
          transaction processes from budget release to       execution procedures was adopted by MEFvia
          commitment in order to streamline budget           a circular and a prakas, and became effective
          execution                                          January 2007.

      6.  Increase reliance on the banking system for tax    Achieved: The prakas mandating that all
          and customs payments, and for RGC payments         customs and excise duties be paid by check at
          to creditors and civil servants via transfer andor the NBC inPhnom Penh and Sihanoukville
          check                                              was adopted in December 2004 (and
                                                             complemented by a clarifying instruction in
                                                             March 2007).

                                                             Achieved: The order for Treasury to pay all
                                                             suppliers by check or transfer inPhnomPenh
                                                             and Sihanoukville took effect September 1,
                                                             2006 (for all payments).

                                                             Achieved: The pilot program to pay civil
                                                             servants by transfer to private commercial
                                                             bank accounts began in August 2006 for nearly
                                                             300 staff in MEFand MOH.
      7. Introduce an official merit-based pay and           Achieved: The MEFMBPI was introduced in
          employment reform pilot in MEF in support of       August 2005.
          the PFMRP
                              Land and Natural ResourcesManagement
      8.  COM      adopts Sub-decree      on    State Land   Achieved: Sub-decree adopted in 2005 and
          Management including participation of local        prakas in2006.
          communities in mapping and land use planning,
          as well as open public access at provincial level
          to register of state land use information and
          issues implementing regulations

      9.  COM adopts Sub-decree on Economic Land             Achieved: Sub-decree adopted and the ELC
          Concessions    that    includes   provisions   for Technical Secretariat was established in June
          resolution with local communities of issues of     2006 (there are concerns about the quality of
          prior occupancyluse of lands and classification    implementing regulations with respect to
          of land to exclude forests and protected areas     transparency issues, but a time-bound
                                                             concession review process associated with
                                                             public information provision has been
                                                             triggered).
      10. Establish a mechanism and periodically             Achieved: Mechanism to disseminate
          disseminate information on Economic Land           information on ELCs has been established and
          Concessions                                        updated httr,://maff.eov.kh/elc/.


51. The proposed triggers for PRGO-2 (Table 3) deepen the reforms undertakenin the
context of PRGO-1,and also extend the scope of the reform program. There i s agreement
on all of these proposed triggers for PRGO-2, reflecting, in particular the depth of the
dialogue in PFM. All of the PFM triggers are drawn from the Government's PFM Reform
Program, with the exception of endorsing the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI),reflecting the recent confirmed discovery of oil reserves.

                                                                                                          20

                                        Table 3. PRGO-2Triggers
                                        Private Sector Development
      Use of S A D mandatory and applied throughout Cambodia based on prakas
      Review implementation of risk management and act accordingly to reduce inspection rate to 50
      percent (total of inspections by any agency as a share of declarations)
      Publication of regulations, procedures, fee schedules, penalties, and necessaryforms on websites
      of all trade-related ministries and agencies and 10of the Ministry of Commerce's provincial
     IManagement                       Public Financial
      Develop an overarching resource mobilization policy including tax, nontax, and debt sources
      Inter-ministerial EITI working group under PFMRP makes a recommendationto RGC on the
      endorsement of EITI, and the RGC and World Bank sign an M O U on EITIdesign and
      implementation
      Implement FMIS pilot of core purchase, payables, and general ledger modules inMEF and intwo
      line ministries and two provinces
                                            Civil Service Reform
      Design and implement MBPIs inthe Ministries of Health and Commerce
                                Land and Natural ResourcesManagement
      Implement interim protective measuresto safeguard indigenous community lands
      Establish and make public log book of ELCs, including those issued at provincial level, and
      review a minimumo f 5 economic land concessions over 10,000 hectares, taking appropriate
      action consistent with Chapter 6 of the Sub-Decree on ELCs
      Clearly define operational procedures for forest boundary demarcation that are fully consistent
      with state land management and demarcation sub-decrees


POLICY AREA: PRIVATESECTORDEVELOPMENT

52. The proposedoperationseeks to support the implementationof key elements of the
RGC's private sector development strategy, and reduce well-identifiedvulnerabilitiesto
sustaining growth and reducingpoverty. Against the backdrop of the phasing out of the
MFA quota system for garments, the need to raise competitiveness in light of WTO accession,
and increasing rates of unemployment among the new entrants to the labor market (especially
in Phnom Penh), the proposed operation would directly support the implementation of the
RGC's policy by: (a) facilitating trade and investment, including through streamlining and
automation of procedures in trade-related agencies, and implementation of a merit-based pay
system; (b) improving the investment climate for domestic and foreign firms and fostering
greater private participation ininfrastructure (PPI); and (c) more firmly entrenching the rule of
law, especially as it relates to encouraging and protectingcommercial business activities.




                                                                                                        21

             Table 4. Private Sector Development: Focus on Improved Outcomes

  Government Strategy
        Objectives                               CAS Outcomes                             PRGO Outcomes

  Achieve higher           Governance-relatedconstraints to productivity and              Facilitate trade,
  productivity levels      growth are substantially reduced                               and improve
  among private firms,              Both the level of unofficial payments and the time    transparency and
  allowing more growth              required to import and export products are            accountability of
  and employment                    substantially reduced, as measured by follow-up       all trade-related
                                    Investment Climate Assessments                        procedures
                                    Cambodia succeeds in establishing its reputation as
                                    a country that protects Core Labor Standards
  Encourage more           Institutionsthat integrate new firms into international        Increasevolume
  diversified, broad-      value chains established                                       of exports and
  basedand inclusive            *   Procedures for foreign direct investment are          diversify export
  privatesector,                    streamlined                                           base
  integratingsmaller,               Modern standards and technologies introduced in a
  rural and informal                range of sectors through IFC-funded investment
  firms                             Provincial investment climate streamlined
                                    Voice of private sector amplified through PS
                                    Forum and stronger business associations
  Improveprivate           Privateinvestmentininfrastructure increasedunder a             Increasedomestic
  sector delivery of       fair, competitive, regulated regime                            and foreign
  publicservices                    Regulatory environments for private provision of      private
  through more                      water, education, telecom, and electricity            investment,
  transparent and                   established                                           includingin
  accountableprivate                Transparent, competitive processes for public         infrastructure
  participationin                   concessions enshrined in law and implemented
  infrastructure (PPI)

53. The proposed operation would support core policy and institutional reforms in each of
the three sub-areas targeted by the RGC as key policy reform priorities; namely, trade
facilitation, investment promotion, and strengthening the rule of law to better support business
activities. The following section presents prior actions and milestones for PRGO-1, triggers
and milestones for PRGO-2 and PRGO-3, and performance indicators and baseline
measurements for each of the three outcomes.

           PSD Outcome 1                    Endof PRGOProgram Performance Indicators
  Facilitate trade, and improve         >    80% of declarations are processed online through ASYCUDA
  transparency and accountability       >    Reduce the number of documentary requirements to clear
  of all trade-related procedures       >    imports to 3
                                             Reduce the time required to clear imports to 2 days
                                        P Reduce the number of documentary requirements to clear

                                        >>   exports to 3
                                             Reduce the time required to clear exports to 1day
                                             Automatic issuanceof statistics and revenue reports in all
                                             Customs offices automated
                                        P Inspectionrate reduced to below 25% (total of inspections by
                                             any agency as a share of declarations)

54. Prior Action: Issuance of a Prime Ministerial Order (PMO) requiring: (a) all government
agencies involved in trade facilitation to define their critical informational and data needs in
the development and adoption of an ASYCUDA-based Single Administrative Document
(SAD), including in the Special Economic Zones (SEZs); and (b) the preparation of a detailed

                                                                                                           22

action plan by March 2006 to implement an electronic Single Window, including; a pilot in the
Port Authority of Sihanoukville (PAS) by December 2006.

55. A Prime Ministerial Order (PM0/90) was issued on December 6, 2005 mandating:
(a) development of a single administrative document (SAD) by March 2006; (b) preparation
of a detailed action plan for implementing the Single Window, including a pilot in the Port
Authority of Sihanoukville (PAS), by March 2006; (c) development of a risk management
strategy to manage and control the clearance of imported and exported goods by December
2005, and submission to the Council of Ministers (COM) for approval by January 2006; and
(d) implementation of inter-agency administrative agreements spelling out the relative roles
and responsibilities of all trade facilitation agencies, including CamControl, by March 2006.

56. The Single Administrative Document (SAD) was prepared and adopted in March
2006. The technical configuration and layout of the SAD and explanatory notes for its 54
boxes have been completed and approved by the steering committee on December 18, 2006.
The translation of the SAD and its attached explanatory notes is ongoing and extensive
training for the Customs and Excise Department (CED) and traders in using the SAD will
soon be conducted by the UNCTAD-led ASYCUDA team. Implementation of SAD
nationwide will take place first on a paper form by the third quarter of 2007. The electronic
usage of the SAD together with implementation of the harmonized system will be done in
conjunction with the ASYCUDA pilot in Sihanoukville by end-2007. The mandatory use of
the SAD, applied throughout Cambodia in the third quarter of 2007, will constitute a trigger
for PRGO-2.

57. The dialogue, however, on the electronic Single Window reached an impassedue to
the lack of agreement on its operational modalities. The design and implementation of an
electronic Single Window would have allowed traders to submit their required importlexport
documentation through one electronic gateway and do so only once instead of several times to
different agencies. The RGC's position, expressed by the Prime Minister, i s that the Single
Window will be based on ASYCUDA and managed exclusively by CED by 2012. In January
2007, the World Bank and the Government agreed to restructure the TFCP and to redirect the
funds allocated to the Single Window to alternatives with potential to improving transparency
in trade-related processes.

58. The RGC has agreed to establish a Trade Information Gateway. The Trade
Information Gateway (TIG), which will be implemented as part of the restructured TFCP,
envisages the publication of trade related information on individual ministry and agency
websites and the establishment of a virtual link of this content. In its second stage of
development the TIG will allow electronic submission of trade-related requests. The Ministry
of Commerce has decided to move expeditiously toward full electronic submission of permits
and licenses by the trading community. This will ensure Cambodia's ability to comply with
changes to GATT Article X as currently being discussed as part of the WTO Trade
Facilitation negotiations. Implementation of the TIG will lead to the strengthening of capacity
of MOC's provincial offices to deliver services to the local business community including
electronic company registration. The TIG will increase transparency of trade-related processes
and accountability of civil servants in trade-related functions and therefore help in achieving
the TFCP's development objectives. Publication of regulations, procedures, fee schedules,
penalties, and necessary forms on the websites of all trade-related ministries and agencies and

                                                                                             23

10 of MOC's provincial offices, and electronic submission of 75% of permits and licenses
required by MOC, will be triggers for PRGO-2 and PRGO-3, respectively.

59. Prior Action: Issue a sub-decree on trade facilitation through a risk management
approach to inspections and clearance of imports and exports of goods, specifying the
Customs and Excise Department (CED) as the sole lead agency for all types of inspections
[documentary. physical, and electronic); and adopt andpublishthe inter-agency administrative
agreements among all the relevant agencies on procedures and widelines for the inspection
and clearance of importedand exported goods.

60. The Sub-decree on Risk Management was issued on March 1,2006, along with the
accompanying guidelines and explanatory notes. The sub-decree identifies the respective
roles and responsibilities of all trade facilitation-related agencies (CED, CamControl, MAFF,
MOC, MOH, MIME),and ensures that there i s no overlap of responsibilities or duplication of
activities. In particular, while CED i s to exercise overall responsibility for administering
general controls over international trade, the other above mentioned agencies are responsible
for particular commodities or products, and for providing CED with detailed guidelines for it
to act on their behalf at specified control points. The adoption of a risk managementapproach
has codified a policy of selective trade-related inspections based on risk. The risk element i s
based on a statistical evaluation of the risk of false declaration of the content of the
consignment, and supported by a post-clearance audit process.

61. Progress in implementing the risk management strategy has been uneven, however.
While the Minister of Economy and Finance signed Prakas No. 607 on August 7, 2006,
establishing a Risk Management and Post Clearance Office in the CED, the office i s still to be
staffed, contributing to delays in ASYCUDA implementation. MEF has issued Prakas No.
1015 on October 24, 2006, establishing the Inter-agency Coordination Group on Trade
Facilitation through Risk Management. The Group includes members from trade-related
agencies. In addition, a 15-member Steering Group on Risk Management led by CED has
been set up and i s meeting once a month, and has received assistance including training from
JICA and AUSAID. However, progress, including in creating the master list of prohibited and
restricted goods and the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) between
agencies, has been slow due to poor inter-agency collaboration. While Inter-Agency
Agreements have been drafted and attached to Sub-decree No. 21 in March 2006, they are still
pending signature by respective institutions. Development partners including AUSAID, EC,
JICA, and the World Bank are all willing to provide support to the RGC in this area. The Risk
Management strategy i s expected to be jointly implemented with ASYCUDA by end-2007.
Implementationperformance of the strategy will provide the triggers for PRGO-2 and -3. The
RGC will review implementation of risk management and act accordingly to reduce the
inspection rate to 50 percent (total of inspections by any agency as a share of declarations) for
PRGO-2 and to 25 percent for PRGO-3. Signing and implementing service-level agreements
between trade-related agencies will be a critical milestone.

62. A very important milestone in the private sector development reform agenda is the
full implementation of ASYCUDA and its use in the Port of Sihanoukville by end-2007.
Implementationof the World Bank-funded ASYCUDA-World package started in April 2006.
ASYCUDA-World (Automated System for Custom DAta) i s the most up to date version of
the UNCTAD-designed information technology package for customs automation and

                                                                                               24

modernization. In April 2006 the ASYCUDA Project Management Unit and a national Project
Team were established in CED. The national team has been trained and i s fully operational,
and about two-thirds of codification/automation of the current legislative framework has been
completed and endorsed by the Steering Committee.

63. ASYCUDA implementation is on-track. A prototype of ASYCUDA-World i s expected
to be deployed in CED headquarters by end-April 2007 and the pilot project functional in the
port of Sihanoukville by the end of 2007. Next steps include preparation, endorsement, and
implementation of reformed procedures by CED, endorsement of proposed reports to be
generated by ASYCUDA, validation of the prototype, and preparation for a parallel run at the
pilot site (Sihanoukville), inclusive of training, equipment purchase, and validation of the
pilot site. The deployment and usage of ASYCUDA in the five CED offices i s expected to
take place by mid-2008 and i s a trigger for PRGO-3.

64. Discussions are ongoing with the Government to support the full rollout of the
ASYCUDA system throughout Cambodia. Under the current arrangement, ASYCUDA will
cover most land and sea checkpoints, including the port of Sihanoukville, CED headquarters,
the Phnom Penh airport, and the Phnom Penh river port. Also, under the restructured TFCP,
the World Bank will fund the establishment of service bureaus to support direct trader input
for SMEs and other traders to input their import and export declarations electronically.

65. Other important milestones supporting trade facilitation have also seen recent
progress. The draft Law on Customs was submitted to the National Assembly, and all
associated implementing rules and regulations have been prepared. The law i s currently under
consideration by the Second Commission of the National Assembly, which has committed to
adopting the law before July 2007. The World Bank has provided technical assistance to the
National Assembly's Second Commission to review the draft Customs Law. To further
facilitate trade, the RGC has also committed, as part of its 12-point action plan, to introduce a
WTO-compatible Flat Fee for Services. This action will constitute one of the milestones of
the proposedprogram.

          PSD Outcome 2                Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
  Increase volume of exports and        Growth of 5% per annum in exports excluding garments and oil
  diversify export base             >k  80% of transactions of the One Stop Service (OSS) in SEZs are
                                        processed electronically
                                    k All company registrations at MOCprovincialoffices completed
                                        electronically within 4 days

66. Diversifying the industrial export base in the context of the anticipated natural
resource (oil) boom will be a daunting challenge. In order to avoid the natural resource
curse, often characterized by a contraction of activities in non-oil industrial sectors, the RGC
needs to further improve the investment climate and infrastructure to attract investment in
non-garment related manufacturing activities. Promotion of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)
to attract FDI, and strengthening the capacity of M O C provincial offices to deliver electronic
services, including company registration, to the local business community-a                trigger for
PRGO-3-would        help achieving this objective. In addition, implementation of the Duty
Suspension Scheme would further facilitate export procedures for existing investors and allow
them to diversify in other activities. With the assistance of FIAS, the authorities have been
working on the adoption of an export duty suspension scheme. The scheme will be

                                                                                                     25

administered by the CIB, with selected audits to be undertaken by CED, and the software will
be fully integrated with ASYCUDA. A final report prepared by FIAS detailing the operational
steps required for implementation was submitted in late April 2006. Discussions are ongoing
between FIAS, GMAC, and the RGC to finalize preparations for implementation.

67. Prior Action: Adoption of enabling legislation regulating Special Economic Zones
(SEZs). A sub-decree on the establishment and management of SEZs was issued on December
29, 2005. The sub-decree incorporates many of the valuable lessons learned from the global
experience with such zones over many years. In particular, it calls for public-private
partnerships in SEZ development, establishes rules for the provision of infrastructure, utilities,
and municipal services, and incorporates the concept of a one-stop service to streamline
business regulations and procedures. Incentives are in line with the Law on Investment and its
associated sub-decree, and important social considerations are addressed, including labor
regulations and vocational training. The RGC recognizes that the enabling legislation could be
further improved by incorporating more "best practice" provisions, including in the area of
local administration of the zones, land use provisions, and extending backward linkages to
surrounding rural areas, and it has recently requested technical assistance from the World
Bank group in that regard. An accompanying sub-decree was also issued on December 29,
2005, detailing the new organization and functioning of the Council for the Development of
Cambodia (CDC), including the creation of a Cambodian SEZ Board under the direct
supervision of a Secretary-General.

68. A milestone in the implementation of SEZs regulations is the adoption and
operationalization of the "one-stop service'' (OSS) in all establishedSEZs. The One Stop
Service (OSS) i s now operational in the Bavet SEZ with five agencies represented in a single
room (CDC, CED, Camcontrol, MOC, and Ministry of Labor). This constitutes a step in the
right direction, although efforts are still needed to reduce the number of institutions at the
table. The RGC has confirmed that an OSS will be established whenever a new SEZ becomes
operational. Automating OSSs in SEZs, in line with ASYCUDA and risk management
principles, and reviewing the implementation experience of the sub-decree on SEZs by end-
2008 with a view to submit a law on SEZs to the NA, or issue revisions to the sub-decree by
April 2009, will constitute other important steps.

         PSD Outcome 3                Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
  Increase domestic and foreign   9 Responsetime ofCIB to investor enquiries is reducedby25 percent
  private investment, including in P Issuanceof at least twojudgments by a recognizedarbitration
  infrastructure.                    center



69. Increasing domestic and foreign private investment in Cambodia will require
further reform of the regulatory framework. Such measures should aim at reducing
uncertainty over investment procedures and approval processes, enhancing confidence in
Cambodia as a destination for FDI, and encouraging greater private participation in
infrastructure (PPI) through fair, transparent, and competitive procedures. Adopting a PPI
governance framework to effectively manage, deliver, and implement PPI transactions
conducted fairly, transparently, competitively, and in the public interest, would be highly
useful.



                                                                                                 26

70. As part of its strategy to increase private investment, the Government has issued a
Sub-decree on the Law on Investment. The Law on Investment, which was amended in
2003, creates a transparent 28-day process for investment approvals. The associated sub-
decree giving the law effect and containing the implementing rules and regulations, was
approved on September 5, 2005. Importantly, the sub-decree: (a) defines so-called "special
nature" projects, which would not be subject to the standard automatic approval process, as
"large infrastructure and natural resource activities;" (b) provides an explanation of the RGC's
underlying policies in relation to the listed activities ineligible for investment incentives,
including those below a specified threshold; and (c) redefines the role of the Cambodian
Investment Board (CIB) as an investment facilitation and promotion. The implementing
regulations for the Law on Investment are being effected to the full satisfaction of clients.
Examples of improved procedures are noted: approval by CDC of `routine' investment project
proposals (e.g. those relating to shoes or garments factories in regular locations) within seven
working days instead of the earlier 45 days, while approvals of `more complex' projects
(involving e.g. a potential threat to national security, environment, culture, etc.) now take
about 28 working days, whereas earlier these could have taken up to three months. Progress in
CIB reform toward an investment facilitation and promotion agency will be a milestone in the
proposed operation.

71. An important measure, which is a trigger for PRGO-3, is that all concessions are
issued inaccordance with the Law on Concessions. The Law on Concessions was endorsed
by the Council of Ministers on July 15, 2005, and forwarded to the National Assembly on
September 18, 2005. The draft law defines a clear process for planning, approving,
negotiating, awarding, and managing private participation ininfrastructure (PPI) investment in
a fair, transparent, and competitive manner. However, despite the RGC's affirmation of the
great importance it attaches to the Law, its enactment i s still pending. The RGC i s committed
to working with the National Assembly to place the draft law on the agenda of its plenary
session in the near future.

72. Adoption of the Law on Concession by the National Assembly will enact the much
needed revised process for private participation in infrastructure (PPI), a milestone for
the proposed operation. The National Assembly's Second Commission has committed to
adopting the law within the timeframe of PRGO-2. In the meantime, preparations are
underway on the associated implementingrules and regulations, and these are expected to be
issued in the form of a sub-decree. As evidence that the revised process i s fully functioning,
two concessions have been completed using the new framework since the draft was endorsed
by the COM. It will be crucial that the legal provisions in the draft Law are applied to the
process and implementation of all concessions as soon as it i s made law.

73. The assurance of the impartiality of commercial arbitration in Cambodia is an
important indicator of an improved business climate. An important milestone in this arena
i s the submission of a draft Law on Commercial Arbitration to the National Assembly. The
Law on Commercial Arbitration, which will facilitate prompt and fair resolution of
commercial disputes, was passed by the National Assembly and subsequently promulgated on
May 5, 2006. However, the implementation of the law has not seen muchprogress thus far. As
per the law, MOC is planningto establish a National Arbitration Center during2007.



                                                                                              27

74. Under the WTO accession agreement, the authorities have also committed to
establishing a Commercial Court, which would permit plaintiffs to pursue their grievances
in the event of dissatisfaction with commercial arbitration. A draft Commercial Court Law is
now under review and i s expected to be delivered to the National Assembly in 2007. Judges to
be trained in commercial law have been selected and a course i s being developed at the Royal
Academy for Judicial Professions. DPs are providing assistance to the RGC in this area. The
issuance of at least two judgments by a recognized arbitration center i s therefore a robust
performance indicator.

75. Improved coordination among donors active in PSD in Cambodia as well as
improved DP-RGC coordination will be crucial to the success of the operation. Donors
active in PSD have recently agreed to step up their efforts to ensure increased aid
effectiveness, and are considering the possibility of increasing financial support to the
Enhanced Integrated Framework. The restructuring of MOC, as well as the adoption of
service-level agreements and the interagency agreement on risk management, are expected to
provide greater clarity for the private sector about the division of responsibilities among
government agencies. Provision by all relevant agencies of complete information on trade
procedures through the internet and increasing automation of trade procedures will increase
transparency and efficiency, and limit possibilities for rent-seeking. The M O C i s in the
process of implementing a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP). The SWAP will be based on
existing analytical work, including the updated Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS)
that i s being supported by a number of DPs including the EC, UNCTAD, UNDP, and the
World Bank. Thematic areas that will form the basis for the RGC's reform program in PSD
include trade facilitation and the legal and regulatory framework for commercial transactions.
The legal framework for commercial transactions i s based in part on the schedule of
commitments that Cambodia has adopted upon its accession to the World Trade Organization.

76. Although important progress has been made in establishing the required legal
framework for commercial transactions, important impediments to traders and
investors remain in the absence of an effective framework for combating corruption and
upholding the rule of law. It will be vital to continue to focus on implementing integrity
programs, transparency provisions, automation of procedures, and merit-basedpay reform.

Impact on Growth and Poverty Reduction

77. Trade facilitation and investment climate improvements are likely to spur growth
primarily in Cambodia's urban areas. The actions supported under the PRGO program will
likely lead to increased private investment and higher and more diversified exports. As
investment and exports expand, formal sector jobs will increase, especially in the traded
sectors (e.g., through trade facilitation the reduction in informal fees would be passed on to
labor in greater employment and higher wages). These reforms are needed to push
Cambodia's medium term growth above the projected7 percent level.

78. There is robust evidence from newly available data to suggest that poverty has
fallen in the decade since Cambodia opened up to international trade and investment.
Employment in the high growth sectors has created some poverty-reducing spillovers. As
most of the approximately 300,000 jobs in garment manufacturing have been for young
women, growth in this sector has had a positive effect on the gender equality of earnings, and

                                                                                            28

arguably has helped to empower women to some degree. However, the economy remains
undiversified and heavily dependent upon a small number of sectors; and backward and
forward linkages from these sectors into others have not been as strong as they might (for
example, most of the food supplied to the tourist industry i s imported, and garment
manufacturing has not resulted in the development of a domestic textile production sector)

79. Privatesector development is thus crucial bothfor maintainingexistingsources of
growth as well as generating new ones, to ensure more rapid and sustainable poverty
reduction.The challenge is now to sustain the high growth rates seen in the last decade,
improve productivity, and diversify the economy into other sectors. The PRGO policy
measures would result in an expansion of trade in existing sub-sectors and facilitate the
growth of new sectors. Each change would also help to increase the poverty elasticity of
growth, by removing some of the barriers that hold back business start-up and growth in a
broader range of goods and services.

80. The PSD policy reforms anticipatedin the PRGO would benefit poorer groups in
Cambodian society both directly and indirectly. Reducing the regulatory burden on
business would likely have a direct impact by encouraging small-scale, household-based
enterprises to expand (a decision that many small informal producers and traders currently
defer because the regulatory burden and the unofficial levies that come with growth and
formalization combine to offset any gains). The greater impact, however, i s likely to be
indirect, but can be expected to be significant. Increased and more diversified investment and
growth would create opportunities for waged, salaried, and self-employment, raise incomes,
and so allow for the accumulation of household assets and investments in household human
capital. This i s not to suggest that weak governance i s the primary constraint on
diversification, but that it i s likely an important one. Critically, economic diversification
would promote more balanced economic development, helping to ensure that national growth
does not merely proceed at a good rate but also without the periodic setbacks that are more
likely in an undiversified economy.

POLICY AREA: PUBLIC FINANCIALMANAGEMENT

81. The RGC has placed public financial management reform squarely on its
developmentand povertyreductionagendas.It is well knownthat weaknesses in the public
expenditure and financial management system not only have high costs in terms of allocative
and operational efficiency but also create unacceptably high levels o f fiduciary risk to public
funds. The critical test of a public expenditure management system is its ability to deliver a
predictable and timely flow of funds to the spending agencies, allowing flexibility in the
application of resources while ensuring adequate control at a sectoral and aggregate level.
Cambodia's system does not currently meet this test. The cash-based payments system has
emerged as a major constraint. Budget execution has suffered from delays and an
unpredictable release of funds, due to cash constraints, undermining operational planning, and
leading to the build-up of arrears. The system i s plagued by gate-keeping and deficient
accounting and reporting systems, thus leading to a weak control environment and increasing
opportunities for corruption. Indeed, in comparative perspective, Cambodia's PFM system
ranks below average with respect to other low income countries.




                                                                                             29

82. When funds release is unpredictable, the budget ceases to be a useful planning tool,
seriously undermining agency performance and expenditure control. Delays in the
approval of commitments and the release of funds prevent timely implementation of agency
work plans, undermining the effectiveness of spending in education, where school materials
should be available at the beginning of the school year, or road maintenance, where funds
should be available after the rainy season. Recourse to unauthorized commitments to by-pass
these problems creates another series of perverse incentives, not least of which i s the tying of
agencies to suppliers with whom they have credit arrangements, thereby hindering attempts to
introduce a transparent procurement process. Agencies have incentives to withhold and
underreport revenues, since this generates cash that can easily be used to finance expenditures.

83. Beyond public financial management, one of the other major reasons for low
quality public services is the absence of an effective system of incentives and
accountability mechanisms in the Cambodian civil service. Weak merit-based civil service
management, low pay and pervasive corruption are the leading causes of Cambodia's
relatively poor standing on public sector performance. The Country Policy and Institutional
Assessment (CPIA) ranks Cambodia in the fourth lowest quintile among fellow low income
countries on issues pertaining to public sector management and institutions, indicating the
need for significant improvement. Given these serious problems, a strategically sequenced
civil service reform will need to be initiated in the short term and carried out over the medium
term if the Government's vision of poverty reduction i s to become reality. The reform
program will need to take a broad approach to strengthening civil service management, by
introducing a merit-based system that guarantees that human resource expenditures are subject
to controls (viz., on hiring and promotion) and fully integrated with the budget formulation
process; improving civil service pay, to attract and retain slulled staff, especially for high level
management and priority sector staff; and rationalizing civil service employment, to ensure
that human resources are wisely deployed in high priority sectors. Indeed, one of the principal
risks to the government's poverty reduction strategy i s the capacity of the civil service to
deliver.

84. In response to these challenge, the Government has formulated a ten-year Public
Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP), launched by the Prime Minister in
December 2004, which focuses on four development objectives: (1) Ensuringthe budget i s
realistic and implemented as intended in a predictable manner; (2) Implementing the policy
agenda through a comprehensive, orderly and transparent budget process; (3) Improving
accountability and internal control systems to strengthen compliance and transparency in the
mobilization and use of public resources; and (4) Motivating civil servants by an effective
incentive system managed according to meritocratic principles and procedures.2

85. The first cycle of PRGOs will focus on achieving four outcomes: (1) the annual
budget i s realistic and implemented as intended in a predictable manner; (2) the policy agenda
i s implemented through a comprehensive, orderly and transparent budget process, including
better control of the civil service establishment; (3) improved accountability and systems
result in strengthened compliance and transparency in mobilization and use of public
resources; and (4) an increase in the number of priority ministries with civil servants who are


  Note that the CG JMI for PFM was: "Implement RGC'sPFMreform agenda: first 12months of platform 1." As
such, no specific actions are highlightedhereas JMIs.

                                                                                                     30

motivated by adequate pay and credible sanctions for malfeasance (Table 5 relates these to the
NPRS and CAS).

                      Tab1 5. PublicFinancialManagementR sultsFocus
       Government
   Strategy Objectives                    CAS Outcomes                             PRGOOutcomes

  Accelerate                   Strengthened mobilization and                1. Annual budget is realistic
  improvements in              management of public finance (setting        and implemented as intended in
  service delivery             the stage for improved service delivery      a predictable manner
  through increasingly         and reduced corruption):
  efficient and effective        increases in tax and non-tax revenues      2. Policy agenda implemented
  public financial               and accountable stewardship of oil         through     a    comprehensive,
  management                     revenue                                    orderly and transparent budget
                                 more credible budget implementation        process,     including     better
                                 reduced fiduciary risk through greater     control of the civil service
                                 control and internal audit                 establishment
                                 strengthened external audit
                                                                            3. Improved accountability and
                                                                            systems result in strengthened
                                                                            compliance and transparency in
                                                                            mobilization and use of public
                                                                            resources

86. The following sections start with each outcome and performance indicators, then
describe the relevant prior actions and milestones for PRGO-1, and triggers for PRGO-2 and
PRGO-3.

          PFMOutcome1                         Endof PRGOProgramPerformanceIndicators
  The annual budget is realistic and      P Quarterly cumulative expenditure commitment profile:
  implemented as intended in a                 Q1 15%, 4 2 45%, 43 67%, 4 4 96%
  predictable manner                      >    Execution rate to budget: salaries 98%, goods/services 95%,

                                          >    capital 80%

                                          >    Payments to creditors made by check: 85% by 2008
                                               Payments to civil servants made through the banking system:
                                               20% by 2009

87. Prior action: Increase reliance on the banking system for tax and customs payments, and
for RGC payments to creditors and civil servants via transfer andor check (PFMRP CAP 7.5,
7.7, 7.15, and 7.16).3 This action encompasses several sub-actions: (i)salary payment via
commercial banks to civil servants; (ii)        payment of customs and excise duties at the NBC by
checwtransfer; and (iii)    government payments to creditors via checwtransfer.

88. The pilot for paying civil servants via bank transfers commenced in MEF and
MOH at the director level (and above), and including MBPI participants, in Phnom
Penh initially, in August 2006. ANZ has been selected through a competitive process to
provide the service, and the MOU was signed with Government. NT has committed to rolling
out the pilot further during the second quarter of 2007 to all ministry staff in Phnom Penh
earning more than CR 400,00O/month and to all ministry staff in Siem Reap and
Sihanoukville earning more than CR 200,00O/month.


 Numbers in parenthesis refer to the PFMRPConsolidated Action Program Activities and "FR" to
recommendations from thejoint Bank-RGC Fiduciary Review.

                                                                                                             31

89. On the payment of CED obligations at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC),
progress has also been made. MEF issued a prakas (#636, December 31, 2004) mandating
that payment of taxes and duties collected by CED be paid at NBC by check (or cash for
payments less than US$ 1,000). Initial implementation of the prakas had been uneven.
However, some progress has been made as a result of the measure. In 2005, 33 percent of
obligations were liquidated by check. In 2006, 29 percent of CED obligations were liquidated
by check, but only 25 percent by cash (fully 46 percent were liquidated as offsetting
transactions). As a result, MEFissued a new instruction in March 2007 to rectify the situation.
As of April 2007, all payments made inPhnom Penh and Sihanoukville above US$ 1,000 are
required to be made by check at NBC (with the exception of payments made on public
holidays and by exemption from MEF).The new instruction should reduce the total amount of
cash payments to less than 20 percent in 2007. This measure will be further rolled out to other
provinces as triggers for PRGO-2 and PRGO-3, as banking conditions permit. A further
measure will be the publication of the prakas in the press and a more active engagement with
private sector working groups, to inform them of their obligations.

90. The National Treasury (NT) has also issued an order to require payment of
creditors by check as of September 2006 for all payments made in Phnom Penh (central
NT and the municipal treasury) and Sihanoukville. As a result of this measure, for the
period October through December 2006, the percentages of payments made by check at the
central NT, Phnom Penh Treasury, and Sihanoukville Treasury were 63, 78, and 30 percent,
respectively. Before the measure, only about 20 percent of payments to suppliers were made
by check in these locales. N o cash payments in these locales, however, were made to suppliers
after September 2006 (the remaining share of payments in these three treasuries were made by
offsetting transactions to the accounts of suppliers held at the NT). As a result of this measure,
41 percent of total NT payments to suppliers were made by check (from September to
December 2006). Further roll out i s planned to other provinces as triggers in PRGO-2 and
PRGO-3, so that the use of cash would nearly be eliminated for supplier payments by 2008.

91. Prior action: Develop and implement new transaction processes from budget release to
commitment to payment in order to streamline ability of budget holders to spend in line with
the budget (PFMRP CAP 6.1 to 6.14). MEF prepared detailed mappings of the budget
execution process in all major departments, and followed with technical assistance to help
MEF design new streamlined processes. A new budget execution manual, based on a new
circular and prakas, was prepared to streamline execution procedures and to introduce
program budgeting starting in January 2007. The key features of the first phase reform
include: (a) simplification of salary approval in the seven priority line ministries (in which
financial controllers were given approval authority); (b) streamlining of execution for non-
procurement items (utilities, rental fees, mission fees, workshops, etc.), including enhanced
use of petty cash for program budget spending (with special arrangements for schools and
health operating districts), and revamped commitment and payment processes in MEF's
Financial Affairs Department, which reduced processing time from an average of 16 days to
an estimated 8 days; and (c) redesigned commitment processes for procurement items for
program budget expenditures, such that commitment i s only required twice per year (50% for
each commitment request) for each line item and such that 50% commitment authority i s
available in November of the previous year for the priority line ministries.



                                                                                               32

92. Additional budget streamlining measures will be rolled out in a second phase for
the 2008 budget, in light of the need to further reduce processing times, especially for
procurement items, and to reengineer processes before the installation of the Financial
Management Information System. Estimates of average processing times for procurement
items put the commitment process at 23 working days (13 for FAD approval and 10 for MEF
senior management approval) and the payment order process at 23 days (12 for FAD approval
and 11for MEF senior management approval), totaling 46 working days for completion of the
process (not including processing time in line ministries). The number of steps and the time
required for key authorizations for procurement items should be significantly reduced as part
of the second phase of the reform.

93. The RGC is focusing on procurement reform as a policy action to make the budget
credible. MEF's output for PRGO-1 would be to issue new procurement regulations, provide
oversight, and expedite payment. Several prior actions, milestones, and triggers are
programmed.

94. Prior action: Fortify decentralized procurement by strengthening the 1995 procurement
sub-decree and the 1998 implementing regulations to promote economy, efficiency, and
transparency (PFMRP CAP 13 and FR). To fill the gaps in the 1995 procurement sub-decree
and the 1998 Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR), and to update them in line with
good public procurement practices, DPP undertook preparation of an amended sub-decree and
IRRs. DPP accelerated the amendment of the 1995 procurement sub-decree and on October
18, 2006, the Prime Minister signed a new sub-decree, representing a very important
accomplishment for MEF. The new sub-decree sets out the broad principles and parameters
for the public procurement system, providing an improved framework for implementation of
public procurement in Cambodia. In January 2007, MEF also issued a prakas adopting the
new IRRs, including standard bidding documents, to support implementation of the new sub-
decree. The new IRRs provide detailed procurement procedures and greater clarity of roles
and responsibilities in the management of the procurement function for further increasing
economy, efficiency, and transparency in the procurement process. Both the issuance of the
new sub-decree and the new IRRs were originally expected to be prior actions for PRGO-2.
The early completion of these actions under PRGO-1 i s an indication of the government's
commitment to procurement reform.

95. Milestone: Issue prakas to initiate deconcentration of procurement in ministries,
provinces, and SOEs. This action was completed in early 2005 with the issuance o f the prakas
deconcentrating procurement authority to the line ministries. New thresholds, below with
MEFhas only a post-review function, were enactedinthe December 31,2005 prakas. The old
threshold of CR 50 million has been increased to: CR 200 million for provincial spending, CR
300 million for provincial own-resources (Salakhet), and CR 500 million for most line
ministries, with the exception of CR 1,000 million for M O H and MOEYS. It i s estimated that
?4of spending falls below the new thresholds, implying an urgent need to reorient the work of
the Department of Public Procurement (DPP) from prior review to post review. In addition,
MEFissued a circular inJune 2006 limiting the use of non-competitive procurementmethods
to safeguard against fraud and abuse by deconcentrated procurement entities. For PRGO-3 the
Government will submit the draft procurement law to the National Assembly, completing the
strengthening o f the legal framework for public procurement.


                                                                                           33

96. Additional milestones include: (1) strengthening MEF capacity to monitor public
procurement outcomes, including through use of performance measurement tools; and (2)
establishing an e-procurement website for advertising biddingopportunities and publication of
contract award information, procurement policies, and standard documents. Concerted
capacity development efforts are now needed to strengthen the capacity of the DPP, line
ministries, and provinces/municipalities in implementing the new procurement system. This
will include training programs on the new procurement sub-decree, IRRs, standard
procurement documents, and good public procurement practices. An assessment of the overall
public procurement system, using the OECD-DAC Baseline Indicator System (BIS)
framework, should be conducted and a procurement performance measurement tool should be
developed to benchmark and monitor procurement performance and outcomes, forming the
basis for establishment of a national procurement monitoring system.

97. The program also supports some actions on the revenue side, in coordination with
the Fund. The RGC i s committing to increases revenue, both from new policy measures as
well as from increases in the revenue yield of the tax base and in the regulation and oversight
of non-tax resources. The trigger for PRGO-2 on revenue i s the development of an
overarching resource mobilization policy including tax, non tax, and debt sources. There i s
currently little capacity to support the development of a tax and non-tax revenue policy
function, and an organizational home for this function was only recently established in the
EPFPD. The overarching policy will specify target collection goals for each category of
revenue and will indicate the needed policy measures to achieve those goals.

98. An important milestone i s             improved tax administration through a functional
reorganization of the Tax Department (3.21).4 The prakas (#248, May 26, 2005) establishing
the legal basis to implement the Tax Department's (TD) new functional organizational
structure has been promulgated. TD needs, however, technical assistance in implementing the
new model. The Bank and Fundwill jointly provide TA in this area.

99. The discovery of oil, with revenue expected to flow in 2009-2010, necessitates
planning for the flow of funds, and safeguarding of transparency and accountability in
this important sector. Cambodia's development partners (DPs) see Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative (EITI) endorsement as critically important for improving the
likelihood of sound oil revenue management in Cambodia and for sending the right signal to
the global community about Cambodia's commitment to a favorable investment climate. The
RGC formally initiated consideration of EITI endorsement in August 2006 through technical
workshops for MEF, the Cambodia National Petroleum Authority (CNPA), and the Ministry
of Mines, Industry, and Energy, as well as for the National Assembly and Senate through the
offices of the Assembly's Second Commission. In addition, the Senior Minister, HE Keat
Chhon, attended the EITI conference in Oslo in October 2006. The Chairman, HE Cheam
Yeap, and the former Vice-Chairman of the Second Commission, both of the National
Assembly, have called for EITI endorsement. The Prime Minister has indicated the need for
further in-depth study in order to consider EITI endorsement and to manage EITI under the
PFMRP. The RGC and DPs have thus agreed the following triggers for PRGO-2 and PRGO-
3,   respectively:    "Inter-ministerial     EITI working  group  under PFMRP makes          a
recommendation to RGC on the endorsement of EITI, and the RGC and World Bank sign an


 This measure was a prior action inthe proposedPRGFprogram.

                                                                                            34

M O U on EITI design and implementation in the context of PFMRP" and "RGC begins
implementation of EITI as per the M O U between the RGC and the World Bank." It i s hoped
that the RGC will develop a clear consensus position over the coming year on the importance
of endorsing EITI.




             PFMOutcome2                     Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
  Policy agenda implemented through a       9 Number of ministries usingprogrambudgets: 7 in2007
  comprehensive, orderly and transparent        and 12 in 2009
  budget process, including better control
  of the civil service establishment

101. On strengthening the link between policy and the budget, MEF intends to provide
the following key output actions: provide line ministries with a framework for program
budgeting that strengthens links between spending and results, and improving civil service
establishment control in coordination with the Council for Administrative Reform (CAR).
Only triggers for PRGO-2 and PRGO-3 are supported in this area.

102. Milestone: Develop and implement pilot establishment control arrangements in MEF to
improve budget comprehensiveness. An important measure in this area i s developing and
implementing pilot establishment control arrangements in MEF to improve budget
comprehensiveness (PFMRPCAP 2.5 and 2.6; MBPIMOU).

103. Milestone: Develop and implement program budget (PB) pilots in priority line
ministries, including MOEYS, MOH, MOJ, and M O W A (PFMRP CAP 26.1-26.3). Together
with the introduction of a new chart of accounts, the new budget classification structure, and
the new streamlined execution procedures, MEF has also piloted program budgets in the
seven priority ministries as of January. The Budget Department regards the introduction of
program budgeting as essential for introducing a stronger focus on results in public service
provision, and has stressed the importance of monitoring performance indicators in the
context of program budgets. Refinement and expansion of the pilot will take place in 2008
and 2009.

          PFMOutcome3                      Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
  Improvedaccountability and              9 Account classificationandreporting allows comparison to
  systems result in strengthened            budget of expenditure at both commitment and payment stages
  complianceand transparency in           9 FMIS-generated budget executionreports preparedquarterly
  mobilizationand use of public             and issued within 1week of the end of quarter by 2009
  resources                               9 Internal audit reports issuedregularly by at least 10IADsto the
                                           management of the ministry, with copies to the MEF and the
                                           NAA by 2009

104. To support the outcome of improved accountability and control systems, MEF will
introduce measures to automate and improve data management, as well as accounting
data formats and sources. In 2006 the RGC took the first steps toward procurement of an

                                                                                                           35

FMIS (PFMRP CAP 21). Following stakeholder consultations an FMIS specification and
Request for Proposals (RFP) for the software have been developed (milestone for PRGO-1).
The procurement process i s currently underway. Arrangements for acquisition of the ICT
infrastructure component, which will be procured separately, are also being progressed. Based
on the agreed initial FMIS design and the user requirement specification, MEF has issued the
request for proposals, which were due in March (first stage) and are being evaluated. The
formal process has now commenced and it will be important to keep it on track.

105. For PRGO-2 the trigger is piloting FMIS implementation beginning with core
modules in 2008 (based on testing in mid to late 2007). Based on the current progress and the
estimated time to complete the procurement, MEF will implement on a pilot basis initially the
core General Ledger Module and then roll out other source modules (Purchase Order,
Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Cash Management, Budget, Assets Management,
Inventory, etc.) thereafter in a phased manner. The initial pilot i s proposed to cover MEF,
three line ministries, and four provinces. The milestone for PRGO-3 i s to continue rollout of
core FMIS modules to ministries and provinces and commence implementation of budget
module.

106. The operation also supports three key milestones on the development of the internal audit
function. PRGO-1 supports the establishment of Internal Audit Departments (IADs) in line
ministries and agencies. In 2006 the RGC created nineteen Internal Audit Departments (IAD)
in line ministries, including a coordinating IAD in MEF. Of these nineteen IADs, seven are
now operational; however their individual capacity and staffing vary significantly, depending
on the scale of RCG operations and DP support. IAD-MEF, as part of its intended
coordination/oversight role, has been working on developing and implementing the overall
legal and institutional framework including necessary capacity building for effective IAD
operation across government. With DP support, some IADs have undertaken some internal
audit activity. However all IADs have identified the need for further substantive support,
specifically to enable internal audit skills development, guidance on internal audit
methodologies, and acquisition of sufficient resources to facilitate effective operation.

107. The challenge now is to strengthen MEF's capacity to manage and oversee these
internal audit departments. During2007 the RCG proposes to focus on: (a) further evolving
the overall framework for internal audit across government; (b) capacity building; and (c)
activities targeted at specific risk areas. These activities will aim to recognize the lessons
learned from ongoing internal audit developments at the line ministry level and, where
appropriate, seek opportunities for shared capacity building. The RGC proposes therefore to
develop and secure approval of an overall strategic plan for internal audit. The plan will,
based on legislative, regulatory, and best practice requirements, articulate the roles and
responsibilities of MEF and ministry IADs, relationships with General Inspections
Department and the National Audit Authority. MEF will also develop training and resource
inputs necessary to implement an effective government wide internal audit function, and
prepare a training needs analysis (management, professional, and ICT). MEF will also plan
and implement an integrated program of capacity building designed to strengthen internal
audit coordination, risk analysis, planning, and reporting. The milestones for PRGO-2 and
PRGO-3, respectively, are: (a) MEF develops a strategic plan for internal audit encompassing
roles and responsibilities, coordination with GIDNAA, development of IA methodologies,


                                                                                           36

and a code of conduct; and (b) Ministry IADs produce annual risk assessments, internal audit
plans, and quarterly audit reports for review and discussion by MEF.

108. The operation also encompasses the objective of civil service reform (CSR) (Table
6). The end program outcome sought i s that civil servants are motivated by an effective
incentive system and are managed according to meritocratic principles and procedures. In
order to attain this objective CAR and MEFwill provide adequate policy options to strengthen
positive and negative incentives for civil servants.

                             Table 6. Civil Service Reform Results Focus
       Government
  Strategy Objectives                       CAS Outcomes                          PRGOOutcomes
  Improve public sector         Meritocratic civil service management      4. Increase in the number of
  governance by                 and incentives tied to performance         priority ministries with civil
  uprooting causes of and       (setting   the      stage  for   reduced   servants who are motivated by
  opportunities for             corruption and better service delivery):   adequate    pay    and credible
  corruption                      merit-based pay and organizational       sanctions for malfeasance
                                  reform piloted
                                  salaries increased and decompressed in
                                  key ministries
                                  strengthened performance management
                                  system implemented
                                  DP     salary     supplement   practices
                                  rationalized


                   CSR Outcome                              Endof PRGOProgram Performance
                                                                            Indicators
  Civil servants are motivated by an effective            P 1,500 civil servants in4 ministries incorporated
  incentive system and are managed according to               into the MBPIby 2009
  meritocratic principles and procedures:

  1.Civil service remuneration is increasingly
  adequate to attract and retain the requisite skills

  2. Civil servants are increasingly managed
  according to merit- and performance-based criteria


109. Prior Action: Introduce an official merit-based pay and employment reform pilot in MEF
in support of the PFMRP (31.1-31.5). After nearly one year of design work and tripartite
negotiations between CAR, MEF, and DPs, a memorandum of understanding (MOU),
including the operations manual, on the PFM MBPI was signed in May 2005. On August 5,
2005, the Prime Minister issued Sub-decree 98 on the "Implementation of the Merit-based Pay
Supplement Incentive," which established the official legal foundation for the MBPI. MEF
has completed the selection process (262 staff were selected of a possible 300 maximum).
MBPIpayments commenced in late 2005.

110. Progress on rolling out of the MBPI to other ministries-a                         trigger for future
operations-had        been less successful. Discussions with M O C are on-going, and the Minister
of Commerce requested that the Bank work with him to develop an MBPI for M O C in 2007.



                                                                                                            37

Discussions with MOH are more advanced, and a deal in principle has now been reached
between MOH, CAR, and the healthDPs.

111. The trigger on CSR for PRGO-3 is that the COM approves a phasedmedium-term
civil service remuneration plan to improve civil service pay selectively to appropriate
levels (PAR JMI 2 and NPAR priorities section 2.1.1, 2.1.3 and 5.1). The trigger for the RGC
to develop and approve a new pay policy i s an agreed J M I from the Public Administration
Reform (PAR) TWG. Development partners regard civil service pay reform as a key priority
for the effective implementation of the NSDP, and recognize that progress to date has been
limited, though the issue requires urgent attention. The trigger was originally agreed for
completion by end-2006. As this has been delayed, and given the upcoming elections, this
measure has been converted to a trigger for PRGO-3.

112. Though not currently in the PFM pillar of the matrix, which is based on the
PFMRP,the operation has been closely coordinated with the NationalAudit Authority
(NAA). It i s important that future PRGO operations include milestones, and potential actions
and triggers, on external audit. The NAA has made progress in improving the timeliness of
audits. However, institutional bottlenecks seem to have prevented the finalization and
publication of the annual audit reports, none of which have yet been published. The
preparation and publication of timely and comprehensive audit reports i s a critical element of
a sound public financial system and also are important for the PRGO DPs. Based on
agreement reached duringthe last mission, the NAA reaffirmed its commitment to publishthe
audit report for the 2003 financial year, which was submitted to the National Assembly in
2006. The Bank i s providing assistance to NAA to prepare the 2003 report for publication as
soon as possible and to prepare guidelines for publication of all future audit reports.

113. The NAA has developed a draft strategy for 2007-11 and an activity plan for its
IDF grant on capacity development. In addition, the PFMAP features a component
dedicated to the external audit function. Based on these plans and subject to confirmation by
the NAA, possible actions include:

        PRGO-2: Issue implementing guidelines and decree on the procedures and reporting
        framework between the National Audit Authority and the parliamentary commissions
        together with guidelines on the practical aspects of how and when audit reports are
        made public; and issue publicly the annual financial audit reports that have been
        submittedto the National Assembly.

        PRGO-3: Summary of semi-annual and annual activity and financial reports, including
        the recommendations and responses from audited entities and the NAA's forthcoming
        activities, sent to the National Assembly.

Impact on Growth and Poverty Reduction

114. The PFM reform program is intended to mobilize higher resource levels and
improve the management of public resources, both of which should result in a higher
quantity and quality of pro-growth, pro-poor service delivery. Greater revenue will allow
higher levels of expenditure in both the neglected economic sectors-transportation,
agriculture, irrigation, and energy-as   well as in the social sectors, which have benefited from

                                                                                               38

significant increases in funding over the past years (Table 7). Improvements in PFM systems
will also allow for more efficient and effective spending, generating higher rates of return on
investment projects and greater impact in terms of the efficiency of service delivery.

   Table 7. Government and Externally Financed Expenditure by Summary Function,
                                      1996-2003 (% GDP)
       Summary Function                1996    1997  1998   1999  2000   2001 2002    2003
        Core Government                9.5     9.2   9.4    6.8   8.0    7.6   7.8     6.6
       Economic Services               6.4     4.7   4.5    4.5   4.9    5.2   5.6     4.3
         Agriculture                   2.3     0.8   0.6    1.0    1.6   1.5    1.4    1.3
         Transport                     2.2     1.6    1.7   1.3   2.0    2.6   2.9     2.1
         Other Economic Services       1.8     2.1   2.1    2.1    1.2   1.0   0.9     0.8
         Environmental Protection      0.1     0.2   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.4     0.1
       RuralDevelopment                2.5     2.2   2.1    1.9   2.1    2.0    1.7    1.7
        Social Services                5.2     5.4   6.8    6.9   7.2    8.9    8.6    7.2
         Health                        1.9     1.6   2.5    3.1    2.8   2.9    2.8    2.3
         Education                     2.1     2.5   2.8    2.4    2.5   3.0    3.5    2.6
         Community & Social Services   1.3     1.2    1.6   1.3    2.0   3.0    2.4    1.9
       Humanitarian Aid & Relief       0.4     0.5   0.3    1.4   2.0    1.2    0.4    0.5
        Other                          0.7     0.1   0.2    0.4   0.3    0.3    1.0    1.8
       Total                           24.8    22.2  23.4   21.9  24.6   25.3  25.1   22.0
       Of which Treasury Executed      10.8    10.2  9.3    10.6  11.8   12.8  13.5   13.4

115. The RGC has indicated its intention to direct the PRGO proceeds toward
expenditure in the following priority areas: roads, irrigation, agriculture productivity,
education, and health. Although the grant proceeds will not be tied to any specific purchases,
the proceeds will be made available in the middle of the 2007 fiscal year, thus creating
additional fiscal space and resulting in the need for programming of additional (i.e.,
unbudgeted) spending. The RGC will indicate to the Bank the allocation of the funds and the
additional spending resulting from the use of the grant funds in the high priority sectors at the
end of the fiscal year.

116. Revenue is projected to increase gradually from 10.5 percent of GDP in 2005,
opening up fiscal space for higher expenditures in agriculture, irrigation, roads, and
energy, as well as growth in social sector spending. The Government has indicated its
intention to significantly increase spending on rural infrastructure, and i s beginning by
allocating a large share of MDRIfunds (US$33 million) to fund small rural irrigation projects
in eastern provinces from 2006-2008. In addition the RGC i s considering scaling up
maintenance expenditures on its road network. Maintenance spending has been quite low
compared to needs, resulting in a deterioration of the capital stock beyond normal
depreciation. The RGC has also stressedthe need to continue to expand funding for health and
education, and would allocate PRGO funds toward those sectors.

117. Increases in social spending in recent years seem to have resulted in positive trends
in education and health outcomes. Development of sector strategies and matching systems
for planning, budgeting and M&E have provided a framework within which investments in
physical infrastructure (schools and clinics) and increasing numbers and to some degree
quality of front-line service delivery staff (teachers, doctors and nurses) have started to shift a


                                                                                                39

number of human development indicators upward. Primary enrollment has increased
significantly. Net primary enrollment rates improved and net lower secondary enrollment rates
also increased. Similarly in health, there has been remarkable success in controlling and then
reducing the spread of HIV and apparent significant decline in infant and under-five mortality
rates.

118. The fundamental underlying impediments to further improvement in service
delivery and outcomes are inadequate systems for managing public finances and public
sector human resources. In PFM, budget allocations fail to reflect priority goals and actual
disbursements often fail to reflect the budget (generally to the further disadvantage of
spending in key poverty-reducing sectors, both social and productive). Though the recent
public expenditure tracking survey in education (World Bank, 2005) found that allocated
funds were reaching primary schools through the Priority Action Program, the results inhealth
were less positive. Sub-provincial budgets were ill-defined and a very large share of spending
went to indirect costs, including administrative overhead, in the health sector. Mechanisms to
feed results back into policy review and reformulation are weak and accountability for the
efficient and effective management of resources i s limited.

119. The second fundamental and related cross-cutting weakness that holds back
improvements in service delivery is public sector human resource management, and
particularly the inadequate level of remuneration for civil servants. The salary of public
sector employees at all levels-including   those (such as teachers and health center staff) who
are directly responsible for the delivery of basic services to the population-is not enough to
live on, resulting in absenteeism, the levying of additional, informal fees which bias against
the poor, and low job motivation. Pilot merit-based pay initiatives will help to identify
approaches to systematically raise salaries in such a way as to reward ability and job
performance.

POLICY AREA: L A N DAND NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

120. The RGC has clearly indicated that stewardship of natural resources and secure
access to land are of vital importance to Cambodia's rural majority, yet major
governance constraints-rooted       in non-transparent state processes and a lack of public
accountability-undermine        the use of natural resources for pro-poor growth and
poverty reduction. Government has recognized the importance of improved management of
land resources, vital for unlocking Cambodia's productive potential and invigorating the
agricultural sector, in its Statement on Land Policy approved by the Council of Ministers in
May 2001. The Statement identifies three objectives for a pro-poor, pro-growth land policy:
(1) to strengthen land tenure security and land markets, and prevent or resolve land disputes;
(2) to manage natural resources in an equitable, sustainable, and efficient manner; (3) to
promote land distribution with equity. The RGC has acknowledged past and current abuses of
natural resources management, but has also recognized that reforms will take time, given the
challenges of competing interests within and outside government. Given this context, RGC
has focused on completing the legal framework, establishing delivery systems for key services
required to establish a more transparent and participatory approach to land and natural
resources management and, where necessary, piloting implementation of the delivery systems
to build implementation capacity and to improve the regulatory framework.


                                                                                             40

121. The Land Policy objectives respond to the need to increase agricultural
productivity by addressing landlessness and tenure insecurity. The proportion of rural
households laclung land for cultivation has trended upward, from 13 percent in 1997 to 20
percent in 2004. While the major causes of landlessness are population growth and low
agricultural productivity, widespread legal and illegal transfer of state lands (including those
occupied by the poor) to powerful interests i s worsening the situation. At the same time the
lack of secure tenure-about      80 percent of rural households that owned land were without
title in 2004 (World Bank, 2006)-is     underminingthe agriculture sector's ability to underpin
broad-based growth and poverty reduction. In fact, the 2004 Cambodian Socio-Economic
Survey (CSES) indicates that the most important factor affecting agricultural productivity i s
land tenure. It i s also the case in Cambodia that smaller farms are more efficient than larger
farms (World Bank, 2006), a finding that supports the RGC's smallholder titling objectives.
Thus, the Government's land resources management initiatives are vital for increasing
agricultural productivity, which lags in Cambodia in regional comparison, and reducing social
conflict.

122. In order to implement the policy statement, the RGC has enacted a new Land Law,
established the Council for Land Policy, and mobilized development partner financing.
The new Land Law was passed in October 2001 following an extensive consultation process.
The Council for Land Policy (CLP) was established to coordinate Government agencies
involved in land resources management. The Bank has a strong track record of partnership
with the RGC in the design and implementation of the land resource management reform
agenda, however recently identified weaknesses in Bank-financed operations in Cambodia
(including the ongoing Land Management and Administration Project) have raised concerns
and prompted a detailed discussion about strengthening governance and ensuring adequate
financial controls.

123. Despite numerous obstacles the Government has taken proactive steps in recent
months and has: (1) passed a sub-decree on privatization of state land requiring that all
property be registered in the state property inventory at MEF prior to sale or lease; (2)
prepared a draft law on expropriation of private property setting out clear procedures for
public appropriation of privately owned land (including limitations on the instances in which
land can be expropriated and frameworks for deciding on compensation); and (3) supported an
independent review of the functioning of the Cadastral Commission (completed in 2006)
providing a sound basis for setting up continuous monitoring o f its performance. Importantly,
the Government has completed its first mapping and registration of state lands-a    key element
of improving overall state land management-in      the context of allocation of land to the poor
through social land concessions.

124. The proposed operation would build on these recent steps and support the
implementation of key elements of the RGC's land policy strategic framework which are
required to improve the utilization of land resources in support of sustainable growth
and poverty reduction. The actions proposed are also supportive of the Strategic Framework
for Natural Resources Management (NRM) being developed with RGC, and other
development partners. The draft NRM framework emphasizes increased transparency,
decentralization and local empowerment, and partnership as the basis for moving from a
situation of high conflict and minimal public benefits to one which increases both local and
national public benefits and increases collaboration amongst state actors and state and private

                                                                                              41

entities in the protection and use of natural resources. The areas of focus-titling              and dispute
resolution, decentralized state land management, increased transparency of state land
utilization and land distribution, expanding use of participatory approaches to natural
resources management, and demarcation of production and protection forests-represent                      the
basis for implementing a substantial shift in the governance of land and natural resources in
favor of local communities and the poor as well as increasingpublic accountability (Table 8).

               Table 8. Improved Land and Natural Resources Management for
                          Sustainable Growth and Poverty Reduction
   Government                              CAS Results                              PRGOOutcomes
      Strategy
      Objective
Create a favorable    [ncreased number of poor Cambodians able to benefit        Accelerate the distribution
environment in land komformal mechanismsfor access to and secure                 of land and the issuanceof
resource              Jwnership of private lands:                                secure land titles by:
management                    Increased number of plots under 5 ha. registered
conducive to private          with title                                         Extension of tenure securitj
sector enterprise             Increased proportion of land disputes involving    by plot registration and
                              powerful state/private interests evaluated as      land titling
                              decided fairly by civil society through cadastral
                              commissions.                                       Resolution of land disputes
                              Proportion of state land allocated to social       quickly and transparently
                              concessions relative to economic land concessions
                              increaseseach year by 10%                          Implementation of social
                                                                                 land concessions
RGC will review idle [ncreasedpublic accessto information regarding status Legal framework defining
and vacant state      and use of state lands and local participation instate     procedures for mapping,
lands, as well as     land use decisions:                                        allocating and managing
state lands illegally         Publicly accessible state land database            state lands in place
occupied by private          Provincial land use classification and allocation
entities                      maps completed by Provincial State Land            Greater public access to
                              Management Committees                              information on location and
                                                                                 use o f state lands
RGC will develop      Strengthenedsystems for management of forest               Improved forest
and implement a       *esourcesbased on working with local communities           management through
National Forest              Development of sustainable and equitable forest     increased transparency,
Program focusing on          policies and improved frameworks for resolution of participatory demarcation
strengthening                conflicts/disputes over implementation and          of forest boundaries,
Forestrymanagemenl           regulation of forest management systems             strengthened protected
and conservation              100%increase each year inforest area under local areas management, and
and increasing               benefit sharing management                          improved/expanded
Yorestry                     Five protected areas have completed management      community forestry
zontributions to             plans reflecting principles of the New PA Law such
socio-economic               as boundary demarcation based on participatory
jevelopment and              processes, and co-management areas
poverty reduction

125. To improve land tenure security, the Government is focusing on a program of
accelerated registration of private land plots, including distribution of titles; extension of
tenure security to those not covered by individual titles; more efficient and equitable
mechanisms for resolving land disputes; and implementation of a program of social land
concessions.



                                                                                                           42

         LNRMOutcome 1                 Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
   Accelerate the distribution of land> Cumulative total of 1milliontitles surveyed and adjudicated; of
   and the issuanceof secure land
   titles




126. The RGC will expand implementation of a transparent and participatoryprocess of
systematic registration and title issuance consistent with the procedures agreed in the
context of LMAP. In order to increase the likelihood of registration of subsequent
transactions, revisions will be made to reduce the cost and increase the transparency of official
fees. The following prior actions, milestones, and triggers are necessary for attaining the
objective in this area:

127. The number of titles issued each year was a prior action for PRGO-1and will also
serve as a milestone for subsequent operations. Issuance of land title certificates during
PRGO-2 and PRGO-3 i s expected to continue at the rate of approximately 20,000 titles per
month leadingto an endof series total of approximately 1milliontitles issuedand adjudicated
with 800,000 titles issued and 95% of issued titles delivered to beneficiaries. The RGC
expects to increase productivity of the registration teams through improved personnel
management based on experience in the first years of registration.

128. Another important milestone will be the expanded delegation of signature authority for
cadastral maps to governors in 3 additional provinces in PRGO-3. In order to reduce central
level delays, prakas have been issued by the MLMUPC authorizing provincial governors to
sign off on cadastral maps as the basis for title issuance.

129. In order to extend the basis for tenure security to those not covered by individual
titles, the RGC will develop the legal and technical basis for communal titling,
particularly for indigenous communities. As a milestone RGC began implementing three
communal titling pilots and initiated public consultation on communal land registration and
titling with indigenous communities in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri Provinces. A draft Policy
on Registration and Right to Use of Indigenous Communal Land in Cambodia has been
prepared and released for public comment, but finalization of the policy and regulations to
enable full implementation of the communal titling provisions of the Land Law in indigenous
communities i s likely to require another one to two years. In the interim, senior RGC officials
have publicly supported the idea of implementing interim protective measures (pilot
identification, mapping, classification, and provisional endorsement of indigenous land within
the framework of provincial level state land management committees and district working
groups as per Sub-Decree #118) to avoid further land losses by indigenous communities.
Consistent with the Law on Communities and Articles 23 to 28 of Land Law, the legal status
of indigenous communities needs to be established by the Ministry of Interior. Implementation




                                                                                                       43

PRGO-2, and adoption of RGC's policy and supporting sub-decree on registration of IP
communal land rights i s a trigger under PRGO-3.
130. The RGC will continue implementation of locally initiated social land concessions
to gain practical implementation experience as the basis for improving its approach as
well as attracting additional development partner support. The RGC has initiated
implementation of social land concession guidelines and the state land management sub-
decree, and identified land for social land concessions in two provinces. The provinces of
Kampong Cham and Kratie have indicated land areas they consider suitable for social land
concessions. Officials from both provinces were trained at the provincial, district, and
commune levels to carry out the procedures for land use planningand state land registration to
confirm areas suitable and available for social land concessions prior to initiating process of
selecting land recipients and designing supporting sub-projects. During the PRGO series the
RGC proposes to settle 2,000 eligible households on social land concessions, with livelihood
support provided and identify an additional 10,000 hectares of land, including from cancelled
or reduced ELCs, through the established bottom-up commune land use planning process.
131. As a milestone the RGC supported the establishment of cadastral commissions for
alternative land dispute resolution. The legal framework for the establishment of Cadastral
Commissions (CCs) at district, provincial, and national levels was completed in 2003.
Cadastral Commissions are now operational in all provinces and municipalities, and all
districts that have a district office of the MLMUPC (more than 90%). In addition, a new body,
the National Authority for the Resolution of Land Disputes (NARLD), was established in
early 2006. This represents an important advance as the appeals process i s expected to
contribute to more rapid and equitable resolution of land use disputes however coordination
mechanisms and respective roles of NARLD and the cadastral commissions are still being
worked out. Statistics provided by the National Cadastral Commission Secretariat (NCCS)
show that, as of the end of April 2006, the CCs had received 4,254 cases. Of these, 1,246
(29%) had been successfully resolved and 950 (22%) dismissedwithdrawn; 2,196 (5 1%)
cases were pending. According to the NCCS, the majority of successfully resolved cases
involved small numbersof families. To date the CC has resolved few of the more complicated
cases involving powerful people or numerous parties.
132. In order to implement a sustainable and efficient approach to state land management, the
Government will strengthen the legal framework defining the procedures for mapping,
allocating, and managing state lands, as well as implementing provisions for participatory
management of natural resources and improving public access to information on the use of
state lands.
        LNRMOutcome 2                     Endof PRGOProgramPerformance Indicators
  Management of state lands           9 Five stateland mapsand databasesestablished
  through transparent,                k Review of all ELCs greater than 10,000 has.completed,
  participatory mechanisms,                including any cancellations or reductions required by law, and
  including review and check on            results reported to public every 6 months
  commercialcontracts and             k Technical Secretariat for ELCsreports publicly andregularly
  concessionagreements on natural          on outcomes of concession review process
  resourcesand state assets           9 100%of communities managing forest areas have approved
                                           Community Forest Agreements and 25% have approved
                                           Community Forest Management Plans
                                      9 Information onPASand forests is available to the public and
                                           updated on a regular basis


                                                                                                         44

133. The following prior actions, milestones, and triggers contribute to the RGC's objective:

134. Prior action: Council of Ministers adopts Sub-decree and implementing prakas on State
Land Management. The Sub-decree was adopted by the Council of Ministers on September
30, 2005 and contains the basis for increased public participation and transparency in
management of state lands, reflecting some comments received during public consultation
process. The prakas was issued in March 2006, though criteria for classification of state public
and private lands have been delegated to provincial state land management committees under
broad and somewhat vague guidelines. In March 2007, Cambodia completed its first
registration of state land following the decentralized and participatory process outlined by the
sub-decree in the context of allocating land for the social land concession pilot in Kratie
Province. As a milestone for PRGO-2 state land mapping; will be conducted in five districts
and the results placedin a publicly accessible state land database.

135. The RGC is attempting to improve the performance of economic land concessions
by ensuring that they are based on effective land assessment, local consultation, formal
registration of land boundaries, and competitive bidding procedures. Prior action: The
Council of Ministers adopts the Sub-decree on Economic Land Concessions (ELCs) and
establishes a technical secretariat. The Sub-decree was adopted by the Council of Ministers in
December 2005. While the sub-decree contains several important provisions regarding public
disclosure and local participation in review of existing ELCs, similar provisions for the
process of granting new concessions are not well-specified. The RGC established the ELC
Technical Secretariat required under the sub-decree in June 2006 to address this shortcoming
in the implementationprakas and to commence the time-bound concession review process.
a prior action the RGC established a mechanism to periodically but regularly disseminate
information on ELCs in accordance with the notice issued by the Prime Minister inJune 2005.
In February 2006, MAFF placed a significant amount of information on its website. In
response to concerns about the completeness of the information and quality of map
coordinates, MAFF committed to update and further improve the information disclosure. The
provision of information from agencies other than MAFF i s still pending. The related triEEer
for PRGO-2 will be to complete this process of information disclosure, prepare a log book
with information on all concessions established, complete a review of at least five concessions
in excess of 10,000 hectares, register all concessions inthe state property inventory (consistent
with the recently issued sub-decree) and issue six-monthly reports on the status of the review
process, all issuedas oublic documents.

136. In order to reach a common understanding on the way forward in management of
natural resources, a dialogue with the Government and other stakeholders on forestry
and rural development options is underway and drawing, where appropriate, on recent
analytical work undertaken by the Bank and others. During the proposed PRGO series
this dialogue will be deepened and will proceed with the explicit aim of exploring both the
short-term imperative to address concerns related to access to natural resources by the rural
poor, illegal logging and forest land encroachment, and continuing forest loss, as well as the
longer-term options for sustainable management of forest resources, attempting to balance the
competing objectives of biodiversity conservation and expanding opportunities for economic
growth. At present the focus i s on the gradual expansion of community-based approaches to
natural resources management and building on progress with biodiversity conservation in
Ratanaluri under the Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project (BPAMP). &

                                                                                              45

trigger under PRGO-2 the RGC will define operational procedures for forest boundarv
demarcation that are fully consistent with both the state land management and forest
                                                                              -
demarcation sub-decrees and under PRGO-3 forest boundary demarcation will be carried out
infive provinces following the agreed procedures.

Impact on Growthand Poverty Reduction

137. The PRGO program would support growth in rural areas through more secure
property rights, provision of social land concessions to small-holders, and crop
diversification. Agriculture remains central to the livelihoods of the great majority of
Cambodians, and particularly poor Cambodians. In 2004, 91% of the poor lived in rural areas;
63% of poor households (and 51% of all households) reported agriculture as the occupation of
the head of household. In the interests of poverty reduction it i s thus critical that land, as the
key productive asset in agricultural production, i s managed equitably. Improved land resource
management can be expected to exercise a strong positive influence on growth and the
reductionof poverty via: (1) enhanced agricultural productivity arising from increased security
of land tenure; (2) increased attention to public interest and developmental goals (equity, rural
livelihoods, state revenue generation and environmental sustainability) in the management of
state land assets; and (3) direct improvements in the welfare of poor households which are the
beneficiary of equitable andefficiently-managed land distribution.

138. Analyses find that secure land tenure, in the form of certificates or application
receipts, significantly raises crop yields, value of land, and householdconsumption (WB,
2006). Secure land tenure, i.e., formal land title in the form of a certificate, increases rental
value by 57 percent; sale value by 38 percent; crop yields by 65 percent; and household
consumption by 24 percent. The main reason i s that well-defined property right improves
private appropriability of returns. Owners with secure land titles are more willing to invest in
higher-risk and potentially higher-payoff activities, such as planting perennial trees and
diversifying into vegetable and cash crops.

139. Moreover, reallocating idle "economic" concession land to smallholders through
"social" concessions has a clear rationale in terms of improved productive efficiency. As
in other countries, it appears that rural households in Cambodia are small but efficient
agricultural producers, particularly when they have access to improved technology and inputs
through public programs or contract farming arrangements. According to analyses from the
CSES 2004, small farms are more efficient than large farms, whether measured by crop
income, crop yields, profit or output value per hectare. Increased land utilization compared to
the existing economic concessions will boost aggregate economic activity.

140. If managed in a manner consistent with poverty reduction objectives, state-
managed lands represent an important potential asset for helping the poor move out of
poverty. Currently, state management of land andforests has had very limited or even adverse
impacts on the poor. Allocations to large business interests and unsustainable resource
exploitation have reduced access to land for the poor; the revenues generated through these
allocations, which could be utilized to support public service provision, has been very poor.
The PRGO will support implementation of the existing legal framework for land distribution
to the poor through better management of state lands consistent with RGC's poverty reduction
and growth objectives through the agreed prior actions and triggers.

                                                                                                 46

141. The PRGO will also support distribution of state lands to the landless and land-
poor. While the landless only represent about 12 to 15 percent of the poor, their ability to
move out of poverty in rural areas i s dependent in large part on their ability to access
productive land and support services. The PRGO will support the development of guidelines
for implementation of social land concessions, as well as the provision of land and supporting
services for land recipients.

142. The PRGO will contribute to expediting state land mapping through development
and implementation of forest boundary demarcation procedures. Forest demarcation will
help strengthen forest law enforcement by clarifying jurisdiction and facilitating prosecution
of forest encroachment cases in the courts. Clearly defined procedures will also help expedite
the process of state land mapping and foster improved inter-ministerial coordination once
competing sub-decrees on forest demarcation and state land management are fully reconciled
at the operational level.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND SAFEGUARDS

143. The proposed PRGO has been screened under the applicable policy (OP/BP 8.60) to
assess its potential to cause significant effects on the Cambodia's environment and
natural resources. The PRGO is not expected to have significant negative effects on
Cambodia's environment and may have positive effects, particularly on Cambodia's forest
and land resources as tenure security improves and government capacity to implement
existing rules and regulations i s strengthened.

144. The Cambodia Environment Monitor (World Bank, 2003) identifiedthe exploitation
and degradation of natural resources, air pollution, water scarcity and pollution, solid
and hazardous waste disposal, land use and biodiversity conservation as the most urgent
challenges. A country safeguards implementationreview, completed in 2006, also highlighted
weaknesses in RGC environmental monitoring and enforcement capacities. To successfully
address these challenges requires environmental management at all levels.

145. To gain a fuller understanding of potential impacts of the PRGO series on the
environment and to further develop the analytical basis for identifying and monitoring
appropriate indicators, analytical work will be undertaken through the Environment
Monitor and other instruments in FY08. In addition the Bank is currently preparing a
concept note in response to a request from the RGC to support strengthening environmental
management in Cambodia, including increasing the capacity of the Ministry of Environment
to prepare Environmental Impact Assessments in conformity with the existing legislation.

OTHER CAS AREAS

Deconcentration and Decentralization (D&D)

146. The D&D reforms embodied in the organic laws that are currently being drafted
and discussed within RCG, have the potential to be among the most profound and
complex constitutional development in Cambodia since the adoption of the Constitution.
Such reforms, if fully implemented, would redirect accountability of the state to its citizens, as



                                                                                               47

well as affect all sectors and levels of government by redistributing political and
administrative authority, functions, financial resources and personnel.

147. As the D&D reforms would be far reaching and complex to design and implement, it i s
envisaged the reforms would be undertaken in a phased approach:

    Preparatory Phase (2007), during which the organic laws are being drafted, consultation
    on the drafts undertaken, and the laws finalized and submitted for approval. An
    Implementation Strategy will also be drafted.

    Initial Phase (2007-2009), during which the reform process will begin implementation,
    including: (a) establishment of the Implementation Authority; (b) design of modified sub-
    national structures and systems; (c) functional assignments, structural changes, transfer of
    personnel; (d) inter-governmental fiscal arrangements for transfer o f resources.

    Transition Phase (2010-2012), during which the progress on the reform process would be
    reviewed and appropriate adjustments made.

148. PRGO-2 could draw from the D&D Reform Implementation Strategy, once
finalized, to adopt an appropriate set of triggers and milestones. As the D&D Reform
Implementation Strategy i s currently under discussion and i s contingent on approval of the
organic laws, it i s not possible to identify the specific actions on D&D to be included at this
time.

Human Development

149. The Royal Government of Cambodia has espoused an ambitious reform agenda in
health and education and has made some important progress in recent years. Salient
priorities within the NSDP 2006-2010, which could be incorporated into future PRGOs,
include: (1) removing barriers to access, expanding coverage and addressing problems of
affordability; (2) improving the quality and efficiency of service delivery; (3) strengthening
sectoral expenditure management and improving the efficiency of spending; (4) promoting
civil service reform to address the low pay for teachers and health care providers, a critical
determinant of poor service quality, through salary increases and incentive programs such as
the Merit Based Pay Initiative (MBPI); and (5) developing institutions and building
capacity-not   only at the central level, but also at the provincial andcommunity levels.

Infrastructure

150. The Government's Rectangular Strategy places great importance on the
rehabilitation of the country's existing infrastructure and the construction of new
infrastructure assets to meet the demand of its growing economy. The road sector
continues to be a high priority and i s also an area where the Bank has been engaged. After
years of repair and rehabilitation, the time i s now ripe for Cambodia to introduce the concept
and practices of road asset management to ensure the maximum benefits of road investments.
The Bank is keen to support a Government Road Asset Management Program, preferably
through co-financing with ADB and other DPs. On this basis, the DP support should aim to
help build institutional capacity for road asset management, fill the funding gaps for routine


                                                                                              48

and periodic maintenance before the domestic funding sources reach the sustainable level, and
finance the restoration of badly deteriorated roads to the maintainable condition. The
Government, ADB, and Bank are currently discussing investment options and complementary
policy measures; the road sector could thus be integrated into the PRGO program starting with
the second operation. In addition, with the recent announcements about the discovery of oil
and gas in offshore Block A, work in the oil and gas sector is being ramped up. While public
finance issues are already addressed under the PFMRP, there i s new work being undertaken
on sectoral oil and gas issues, including the legal framework for and regulation of the sector.
These issues could also be incorporatedinto future PRGOs.

                            VI.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
151. The 2003 IFAPER, which incorporated a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) and which was followed by a Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) in 2004, concludedthat the overall level of fiduciary risk in Cambodia is
high. High fiduciary risk i s a result of weak control over public expenditure execution, which
derives from unreliable systems and procedures. As a consequence the PFM system cannot
provide assurance that public funds are used for authorized purposes. The Government fully
accepted the diagnosis and recommendations of the IFAPER and the CPAR, and has
developed and endorsed a Public Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP) that fully
incorporates the analytical foundations of both.

152. Since 2005 implementation of the Government's PFMRPhas been addressing-and
therefore reducing-the      fiduciary issues identified in the IFAPER and the CPAR. The
first two platforms of the PFMRP are designed to tackle the underlying fiduciary weaknesses
inherent in the system. Platform 1will make the budget more credible in delivering resources
in a timely and predictable manner to spending ministries, and has been under implementation
since February 2005. It i s expected that Platform 1, which i s improving budget
comprehensiveness, Treasury operations, and procurement procedures, will be completed
before the end of 2007. The overarching objective of Platform 2 i s to improve financial
accountability,  and this will be accomplished by strengthening accounting systems,
automating budget reporting and analysis, and building internal audit procedures and controls.
Detailed development of Platform 2 i s currently underway and it i s expected that
implementation will commence before the end of 2007.

153. The principal means of addressing fiduciary risk is therefore through vigorous
support for the PFMRP.The Bank has led the PFMDevelopment Partner Committee (DPC)
since 2003 in supplying both analytical and implementation support to the RGC.It i s the view
of the Bank, as well as the DPC, that the Government has demonstrated credible commitment
to the PFMRP, as indicated by its largely successful track record of implementation from
2005-2007. The PFMRP will take a decade to complete, but significant impact i s already
being noted.

154. In addition to addressing fiduciary risk through the PFMRP, the Bank will
complement standard fiduciary arrangements with additional safeguard measures.
According to standard procedures, grant proceeds will be disbursed in accordance with the
Bank's procedures for development policy lending as set out in OP 8.60 and against

                                                                                             49

satisfactory implementation of the PRGO-1 program. Once the grant i s approved by the Board
and becomes effective, the proceeds will be disbursed in a single tranche. The borrower will
open and maintain a dedicated foreign currency deposit account in US dollars at the National
Bank of Cambodia (NBC), and the grant proceeds will be deposited by the Bank into that
account. Within thirty days, an equivalent amount will be converted into Riel and credited to
the National Treasury (NT) in order to finance budget expenditure. The NBC has been subject
to a full IMF Safeguard Assessment with respect to a possible successor PRGF arrangement
(though the assessment i s now somewhat dated). The assessment, completed in March 2004,
addressed four broad areas and made specific recommendations to strengthen: external audit,
legal structures and independence, financial reporting, and internal audit and control.

155. Additional safeguard measures will also be utilized. These include the establishment
of a dedicated NT budget account (to be used exclusively for PRGO funds) to receive the
funds from the dedicated foreign currency account; and a mandatory audit of both the foreign
currency deposit account and the NT budget account (including the balances and transactions
of both accounts). MEF will report to IDA on: the amount received into the NBC's foreign
currency deposit account, and the amount withdrawn from the foreign currency deposit
account and the equivalent amount in Riel deposited into the dedicated NT account for
budgeted expenditure (the information provided i s to include the date and namehumber of the
NT account into which the local currency amount has been deposited). The dedicated accounts
and related funds flows to and from these accounts will be audited by independent auditors
andin accordance with terms of reference to be agreed with IDA.

156. The RGC will also ensure that the grant proceeds are not used for ineligible
purposes or items (Le., to finance goods or services on IDA'S `negative list') as agreed
during negotiations and defined in the Financing Agreement. If the proceeds of the grant
or any part of the grant proceeds are used for purposes other than the agreed expenditures as
specified in the Financing Agreement, the Bank will require the RGC to either return the
amount to the Deposit Account or the NT Account to be used for eligible purposes, or to
refund the amount directly to IDA for cancellation.

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORINGAND EVALUATION
157. The beneficiary is the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC). PRGO-1 is a single
tranche grant that will be disbursed upon effectiveness after the opening of a dedicated foreign
currency account at the NBC. It i s envisaged that there will be two further single-tranche
PRGOs in the series on a twelve to eighteen month basis, depending on the speed of the
reform program.

158. The RGC will be responsiblefor the overall implementation of the PRGOprogram.
MEFcoordinates with other ministriesthrough the multi-ministerial Committee for Economic
and Financial Policies (CEFP), and through bilateral meetings. MEF also prepares a regular
report on PRGO progress. Bank supervision will focus on regular verification processes that
monitor implementation of the policies being supported by the PRGO and the PFMRP. The
Bank's monitoring will be aligned with the government's monitoring and evaluation of the
NSDP, which will occur through the TWGs. The PSD, PFM, and Land TWGs are chaired by
the Bank on behalf of the partner community, which allows for close supervision of PRGO
actions andtriggers.


                                                                                              50

RISKS A N D R I S K MITIGATION
159. A n innovative pilot stakeholder analysis was carried out in 2005-2006 to analyze
the risks at the level of specific prior actions. Using a modified expected utility model, the
positions, salience, and resources of key stakeholders were analyzed. The results of the
analysis were used to assess the feasibility of consensus on individual prior actions. The
detailed results have been reported ~eparately.~

160. The general risks concerning the PRGO and its implementation can be grouped
into the following categories: (i)political risks and ownership; (ii)                   weak capacity of public
institutions; (iii)  weak governance and accountability environment, including corruption.

Political risks and ownership

161. The Government's ownership of the reform program is indeed the key to its
successful implementation. While there i s strong ownership in MEF, there appears to be less
commitment in some of the other agencies involved. There i s a risk of a narrowing of the
coverage of the operation, as opposed to the typical broadening of coverage that takes place
over time in many countries. Further, despite the Government's experience with the Bank's
policy lending operations (through the Structural Adjustment Credit), it did not establish a
clear track record of reform through the SAC, as implementation of policies agreed was
uneven.

162. Nationalelections in 2008 raise a serious risk of a slowdown inthe reform program.
Upcoming elections could be used as a pretext to retard and/or delay reform. If this i s the case,
the second operation of the series would likely be delayed until well after the election. The
reform program could also be stymied if there are perceived threats or perceived
encroachment on their territories by powerful vested interests.

163. There is also a risk that the World Bank and other `traditional' DPs could lose
influence. The flow of oil revenue in a few years' time could alter the rules dramatically. This
could mean that the leverage of the PRGO would derive principally from technical assistance
in the form of analytical and advisory services from the Bank. There is also a risk that oil
revenue could be poorly and non-transparently managed, which could put macroeconomic
stability at risk.




  A few preliminary points are noted on three key PFM prior actions: (1) Treasury payments to suppliers by
check: A consensus formed around a policy measure such that approximately 1/3 o f total payments to suppliers
are now made by checks; (2) Customs payments made by check to the NBC: The negotiations around this issue
eventually produced a consensus, though resolution was delayed due to the somewhat difficult nature of the
discussions (in the sense of important stakeholders having high salience on the issue, but also having different
positions). A more incremental prior action position yielded greater consensus but less progress on the desired
outcome; (3) Expansion of MBPI to three other ministries: Negotiations are proceeding on this issue, and it
appears that support for the prior action is growing. Many stakeholders will likely support the MBPIexpansion to
three other ministries, while many other stakeholders would prefer to see an expansion to four. In either case
there i s robust support for this prior action at the level of MEF and the line ministries, though not necessarily in
CAR.



                                                                                                                  51

164. These risks, however, should also be reduced slightly by the connection between the
PRGO and the March 2006 CG Meeting, which linked the Government's
implementation of reforms and DPs' contributions by rewarding Cambodia with higher
ODA (just as the 2004 CG saw both the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank
reducing their pledges because of poor performance on governance). Moreover, the operation
i s now firmly embedded in the C G process, including in the joint Government-DP discussions
in the Technical Working Groups, where regular updates on the operation are provided. In
sum, the Government has realizedthat it must move from announcements in these three areas
to actual implementation if it i s to continue to receive DP support. The PRGO process i s
designed to strengthen this linkage between results and DP assistance.

165. The Government has set up a monitoring mechanism in the form of a Government
Donor Coordination Committee (GDCC) that meets on a quarterly basis and monitors
the entire reform program with a special focus on identifying lagging areas. Many of the
actions agreed to at the C G Meeting are cross-sectoral in nature and this monitoring
mechanism brings an internal cohesion to the reform program that had been lacking. The
PRGO's prior actions and triggers are based on the JMIs agreed at the CG Meeting, so that the
reform program remains government-owned and led and supported by the entire DP
community collectively.

166. However, any wavering commitment could result in a possible risk that the reform
program would take place ina piecemeal basis; reform actions taken could be diluted by
subsequent measures; and worse yet, these could be subject to reversals-as         was reflected
in the past pattern of reform in Cambodia. The Bank, through its active dialogue with
Government counterparts, could provide some external support to preserve the momentum of
reform among the senior decision-makers, while serving as an ally, through the PRGO
instrument, to the Government and especially the MEF to help maintain and sustain the
government strategy for and its commitments to the reform program. Still, despite the PRGO,
powerful pockets of resistance within Government to some of these reforms are likely to
remain.

167. One of the major concerns here is that governance reforms not directly supported
by this operation could soon become the binding constraints to growth and poverty
reduction. In this scenario, though reforms in PFM, PSD, and LNRM proceed, the lack of
reform in the legal and judicial and civil service arenas would block further sectoral reform
from having much impact. The lack of progress on civil service reform i s particularly
worrisome and has the potential to undermine the entirety of the PRGO reform program. The
operation i s attempting to tackle civil service reform on a ministry by ministry basis, but even
this modest approach is proving difficult.

Weak capacity of public institutions

168. Even with the government's full commitment, implementation of the reform
program could be delayed because of weak capacity of public institutions, especially at
the sub-national levels which could impede the implementation of proposed reforms. The
Bank aims to mitigate this risk by: proposing and formulating a clear phased strategy in
policy actions and ensuring that in all the key areas of PRGO implementation, institutional
capacity i s built up through well designed and targeted capacity development support, which

                                                                                               52

would ideally encompass mechanisms such as the MBPI to address civil servants weak
incentives for performance. A related risk concerns the piloting of reform and the possibility
that pilots are not rolled out into more systematic reform efforts. Piloting i s occurring in all
three sectors and i s an accepted way of working in Cambodia. The threat, however, i s that
pilots proceed without ever having system-wide impact, due either to weak capacity or lack of
political will.

Weak governance and limited accountability

169. Corruption in Cambodia is a critical constraint-with                economic and social
advancement often driven by nepotism and graft instead of productivity, integrity, and
entrepreneurship. All these have exerted a negative impact on the implementation of the
reform program. The Bank's ability to mitigate these political risks i s limited, except through
promotion of activities that foster greater participation of civil society and greater
transparency.

170. In a weak governance environment there is also a reputational risk of providing
budget support. Following the declaration of misprocurement in the Bank's portfolio with a
development policy operation i s likely to generate criticism from some quarters. For this
reason the task team i s proposing enhanced fiduciary arrangements, while vigorously
supporting Government's efforts to improve the PFM system.

Exogenous shocks

171. Given the fragile and fledging economic base of the country, Cambodia is prone to
exogenous shocks including adverse terms of trade, lower exports, increasing regional
insecurity and global economic slowdown, illeffects o f health-related problems such as avian
flu or SARS, and natural disasters. All these could cause a widening of the external financial
gap and disrupt macroeconomic stability as Cambodia depends heavily on exports.

Collaboration with DPs and civil society

172. To strengthen the country's commitment, enhance sustainability of reforms, and
mitigate any adverse impact on would-be losers, the Bank has been closely coordinating
with other DPs, NGOs, and the private sector. Strong partnerships with other DPs in
helping the implementation of the reform program are highlighted in the TA matrix. In
particular, under the NSDP framework, the PRGO program has been closely coordinated with
the IMF. Close coordination among DPs would mitigate the burden imposed on the
government, minimize overlapping DP demands, and insure consistency of the reform
program across all areas.




                                                                                              53

          ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY



                     * . . _                     . *




         S*  ...,.................WEFl...............
              2071.

                                                                             Phnom Penh, 25 April ,2007

              H.E.PaulD. Wolfowib
              President
             'The World Bank
               Washington, D.C.

              Excellency,

              On behalfof the Royal Government of Cambodia, Iam writing to thank the World Bank for
              providing Cambodian with Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (PRGO), which will
              play a crucial role in supporting and driving further structural reforms in key sectors, The
              Royal Government has clearly understood that the proposed reform measures will lead to
              poverty reduction.andprosperity for all Cambodian people.

              This letter is intended to briefly outline the recent progress in Cambodia, to reiterate once
              again the Royal Government Cambodia's commitment to reform and to seek the International
              Development Association's support on these reforms and the implementation of our
              government political platform, the Rectangular Strategy (RS), as well as the National
               Strategic DevelopmentPlan(NSDP) through the implementation of the PRGO.

              Recent Progress in Cambodia

              Cambodiahas gone through sweeping change not only inpolitical and security, but also in its
              economic and social landscape. While peace, territorial unity and political stability have been
              achieved, this stable, safe, and secure environment is an essential preconditionto Cambodia
              realizing its economic and social potential as a peaceful and prosperous nation. Poli'tical
              stability has opened up a window of tremendous opportunities for social and economic
              development for Cambodians from all walks of life.

              During the past decade, prudent and sound macroeconomic management. particularly in the
              area of fiscal policy has helped the economy to achieve remarkable progress. The recent
              economic performanceof Cambodia has been noteworthy.During 1999-2006,annual average
              GDP growth reached around 9.7 percent. In 2005 and 2006, the real GDP growth reached an
              all time peak of 13.4 percent and 10.5 percent respectively. Growth in 2005 and 2006 was
              largely driven by continued high export growth: increased tourism receipts, robust
              construction activity, and especially, strong agriculture production bolstered by massive
              investment in irrigation facilities and well conceivedgovernment policies.

              Per capita income has almost doubled from US$247 in 1994 to US$ 506 in 2006. Inflation
              averaged 3 percent from 1994-2006.The exchange rate has been broadly stable. The country's
              international reserves increased by 10 times from a low level of US$lOO million in 1994 to                M
g m t l ~ILIr d p i i p i    i%;smy ntm@rnq n p                         giro3 : GrjM-Igrn-ribCI 3aG yml : Gdd-Im-GGd fl8d#
$.92. Sangksl HI81 Phiilrn, Khm nun Pmh. Phnom Pmh. CAMBbIllA.           Phune, aSSZ.L714 664   V a l WSS-23417798
                                                                                                     '


             m.m.r.g'*.Lh                                                      mrl-ndmc@sboa.rum                    54

 more than US$ I billion in 2006. The high economic growth has resulted in rapid poverty
 reduction, which declined from an estimated 47 per cent in 1994 to 34.5 per cent in 2004, i.e.
 we have managedto reduce poverty by 1 percent per annum.

 The strong economic growth and massive investments in infrastructure, especially rural
 infrastructure, have also led to significant improvement in social sector such as health and
 education. During the last decade, we have increased education spending by more than
 fivefold from 102 billion of Riels in 1998 to 546 billionof Riels or US$134million in 2007.
 Net enrolment rates at the primary level are up significantly from 65 percent in 2000 to 76
 percent in 2004. The lower secondary net enrollment has more than doubled since 1997,
 increasing from 7.6 percentto 16.4 percent. Advances in importantindicatorssuchas literacy,
 repetition rates and years of schooling for younger age cohorts are further positive signs that
 the rebuildingof the nationaleducation system is taking root.

At the same time, substantial progress has been achieved in the public health sector. During
the last decade, we have increasedhealthspending by more than sevenfold from 44 .billionof
Riels in 1998 to 337 billion o f Riels or US$83 million in 2007. The mortality rate ofchildren
below five decreased from 124 in 2000 to only 83 per thousand births, which means 30%
reduction. Moreover, the malnutrition of children below five went down from 15% to 7%,
which means reductionby more than half.

In general, undoubted progress has been made on all fronts and positive and progressive
changes are clearly manifest. Major highlightsare:

         Restorationof, and vast improvements in, internal peaceand security.
         Territorial unity andpolitical stability have beenachieved.
         Democracy taking roots, bothat the nationaland sub-nationallevels.
         Major advances in rule of law and improvements in maintenance of law and social
         order.
         Vast enhancementin personal freedoms and freedom of expression.
         Better andsteadily improving fiscal disciplineand management.
         Accelerating integrationof Cambodiawith the region and the rest of the world,
         Measurable improvements in other social indicators such as: significant reduction in
         communicable diseases, spectacular in HIVIAIDS; improved urban access to safe
         water, and rural access to sanitation; and, reductionin gender disparity inmany fields.

Rectangular Strategy (RS)

To keep the momentum of this progress and to make sure the government will be able to
achieve the CMDGs by 2015, the Royal Government in the third term of the National
Assembly has laid out the Rectangular Strategy which clearly stated the importance of
"Promoting Economic Growth" "Generating Employment for Workers" "Promoting
Social Equity" as well as "Strengtheningthe Public Sector'sCapacity".

The Rectangular Strategy for Growth, Employment, EquityandEfficiency (RS) was launched
by Samdech Prime Minister HUN SEN on 16 July 2004 during the first Cabinet Meeting of
the Third Mandate Royal Government of Cambodia. This Strategy represents the RGC's
political platform which constitutes the common national vision and mission statement to
guide the implementationof the economic policy agenda of the Government duringits term in
office.

The RS, which can be visualizedas a series of interlockingrectangles, has good governance at
its core. The other rectangles focus on the desired environment to implement the strategy, and
on promoting economic growth through agriculture development, rehabilitation and
constructionof physical infrastructure, private sector development, and capacity building and
human resource development.

First, the core of the RS is Good Governance, focused at four reform areas: (1) anti-
conuption, (2) legal and judicial reform, (3) public administration, and (4) reform of the
armed forces, especially demobilization;

Second, the environment for the implementation of the RS consists of four elements: (1)
peace, political stability and social order; (2) partnership in development with all
stakeholders, including the private sector, donor community and civil society; (3) favorable
macroeconomicenvironment; and (4) regional and internationalintegration.

Third, the four strategic "growth rectangles" are: (1) agriculture enhancement; (2) private
sector development andemployment generation; (3) continued rehabilitationand construction
o f physicalinfrastructure,and (4) capacity buildingand human resourcedevelopment.

Fourth, each strategic "growth rectangle" has four sides:

           Rectangle I: Enhancement of Agricultural Sector which covers: (1) improved
           productivity and diversification of agriculture; (2) land reform and clearing of
           mines; (3) fisheries reform; and (4) forestry reform.
           Rectangle 2: Further Rehabilitation and Construction of Physical Inftastructure,
           involving: (1) further restoration and constructiontransport infrastructure(inland,
           marine and air transport); (2) management of water resources and irrigation; (3)
           development of energy and power grids, and (4) development of information and
           communicationtechnology.
           Rectangle 3: Private Sector Development and Employment Generation covers (1)
           strengthenedprivate sector and attraction of investments; (2) promotion of SMEs;
           (3) creation of jobs and ensuring improved working conditions; and (4)
           establishment of social safety nets for civil servants, employeesand workers; and
           Rectangle 4: Capacity Building und Human Resource Development, including: (1)
           enhanced quality of education; (2) improvement of health services; (3) fostering
           gender equity, and (4) implementationofpopulationpolicy.

National Strategic Development Plan (2006-2010)

The National Strategic Development Plan (2006-201O), has been formulated using the
comprehensive Rectangular Strategy of the RoyalGovernment of Cambodia and synthesizes
various policy documents (Cambodia Millennium Development Goals, National Poverty
Reduction Strategy, National Population Policy, etc.) and through extensive consultations
were also held among all stakeholders. It provides the framework and compass for growth,
employment, equity, and efficiency to reach CMDGs and well-focused and directed future
equitable development, pro-poor and pro-rural. It will take the country on an assured growth
path, at once sustainable. It lays out the vision, goals, strategies and priority actions for the
next five years. It makes balanced, realistic and feasible allocations to various sectors on a
priority basis. Its implementation will be closely and regularly monitored to make annual
adjustments.

With peace and internal stability taking strong hold, improvements in social order, and robust
economic growth in the past few years, Cambodia is at a critical threshold for faster future
progress. The next ten years represent a decade ofopportunity to realize ambitious CMDGs
anduplift the poor and vulnerable.

The National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP), 2006-10, contained in this document
shouldtherefore be considered an operational and guiding tool to achieve the said objectives,
goals and targets. It is a document "for and by the whole o f Cambodia". It is not a mere
academic exercise. It is a practical document to achieve realistic, specific high priority
national targets by 2010 to move towards longer-term goals, using the framework o f the
Rectangular Strategy. Emphasis is on results (outputs, outcomes) to be achieved, not merely
on inputs, activities and processes. The NSDP is also a compact and concise document. It
highlights the most essential overarching goals, strategies, targets and actions and leaves
more details to be developed and spelt out in sectoral and sub-national plans based on
national priorities contained in the NSDP.

The NSDP is therefore a practical, result-oriented implementing tool with the clear purpose
Of:


        Rapidly improving the lives o f all Cambodians.
        More specifically, bringing about meaningful and measurable reduction in poverty
        levels especially in the rural areas where these are high.

InCambodia, greatest andquickest gains inpovertyalleviationwill be possible inrural areas
where most of the poor live. The NSDP will, therefore, direct over 60% of resources to rural
areas, with increasedattention to productiveactivities like agriculture, rural development and
to health and education to increase andenhance humancapital and better contributeto overall
development.

Successfuland timely implementationo f NSDP strategies and achievement of NSDP targets
would need substantial and well-directed additional investments and their focused and
effective use. Such investments need to be made both in the public and private sector, but
only the public sector aspect is consideredhere.

Based on projectedmacro-economic growthand neededinvestments in the public sector, and
taking into account the absorptive capacity o f the public sector apparatus, it is estimatedthat
Cambodian Riel (CR) 15,225 billion equivalent to US$ 3,500 million will be needed for the
public sector during 2006-2010 to achieve the goals and targets set forth inthe NSDP. Within
this envelope, priority attention is needed to some major sectors. To ensure a rural focus for
poverty alleviation, allocations have to be more for activities which will benefit rural areas
directly.

The resources to be available for the NSDP will come from: (a) surpluses in current account
in the annual national budgets; (b) grant aid from external development partners; (c)
concessional loans from multilateral financial institutions (MFIs); (c) resources from non
traditional partners including semi-concessional loans from MFIs; and (d) funds made
available from possiblepast debt relief. A high priority is to direct resources in a meaningful
way to "real investments", including through significant reductions in technical assistance
projects, and to persuade EDPs to fully align their assistance to NSDP. RGC is confident and
optimistic that a small gap of about CR 980 billion or US$225 million in resources could be
coveredby increases in internalrevenuesand external support.

Finally, the NSDP recognizesthat critical to its success is regular, timely and clear monitoring
and evaluation of results being achieved as implementation progresses so that needed
corrections could be made from time to time. It is therefore to be considered a dynamic, live,
evolving and flexible document to be regularly monitored and evaluated against progress, and
to be revised, adapted and adjusted to reflect new data and to realign actions on an annual
basis. An annual review of progress, shortfalls and corrective actions will be produced for
disseminationand consultations.

Macroeconomic Management

The last decade fantastic macroeconomic performance has further strengthened the Royal
Government of Cambodia's commitment in maintaining this stability in years to come. The
Royal Government of Cambodia understands that the macroeconomic stability is vital in
promotinggrowth and reducingpoverty. Without low and stable inflation, careful control of
public finances, manageable public debt and sustainable level of government spending, we
would not expect or hope for a strong and sustainablegrowth and a reductioninpoverty.

The government will managethe fiscal policy prudentially and to maintain the budget deficit
at the lowest possible level. At the same time, the Royal Government will ensure that the
government's expenditure will be consistent with macroeconomic stability a well as making
the expenditure programas a part of a systemic reformpackage aimed at promotingdomestic
saving, productive investment, and efficient resource allocation. Moreover, as the country is
now peaceful, the government will channel more resources into the social and economic
sectors in order to improvethe well-beingof the people andto fight against poverty.

Though, macroeconomic stability is a necessary condition for growth, it is not sufficient by
itself. To be truly effective, reforms must extend right across the policy spectrum. To be
effective, the Government places a great deal o f emphasis on improving governance as a
necessary condition for promoting private investment. Indeed governance reform is a
cornerstoneof the Rectangular Strategy. The reforms underway include Judicial Reforms and
Civil Administration Reforms. The Government ,is working on an anti-corruption law.
Structural adjustment in the key sectors o f the economy is proceeding smoothly. The main
objective is to promote private sector led growth supported by proactive public policy. The
role of the Government is envisaged as efficient provision o f infrastructure and helping the
private sector to improve competitiveness. We have also created a Steering Committee on
Private Sector Development with the aim to improve the investment climate, business
environment and trade facilitation. To further strengthen financial sector development, the
Royal Government of Cambodia adopted in 2006 the updated Financial Sector Development
Planfor 2006-2015.

At the same time, to promote macroeconomic stability, the government will promote the
economic diversification by promoting the agriculture sector, agro-industry and small and
medium enterprises through the implementation of a number of the following reform
programs:

    1. Continue to prudentially implement macroeconomic policy as a base for high
        economic growth and sustainabilitywith low inflation.
   2, Continue to implement the Public FinancialManagementReform Program, especially
        to achieve the goal of the first platform, which is a more credible budget through
        reducing expenditure procedures, maintaining and sustaining revenue, strengthening
        cash management in order to improve efficiency in providing services, introducing
        measures to reduce arrears to private suppliers, starting to implement the new Chart of

        Accounts and Budget Classification and testing the implementation of program
        budgeting, which is the base for the second and third platforms.
    3. Continue restructuring in order to strengthen a favorable environment for the
        development of the private sector, especially promoting agriculture sector, agro-
        industry and small and medium enterprises as well as enhancing trade facilitation
        through the Single Window and promoting the participation fiom the private sector in
        the infrastructure construction.
    4. Continue to implement land management reform in order to support the agricultural
        sector in accordance with the LandLaw in order to transform this sector to be a strong
        base for economic growth and poverty reduction.
    5. Continue to strengthen the banking system, insurance sector and financial sector in
        order to mobilize capital for financing the projectsin the private sector.
    6. Implement the Judicial Reform, the strengthening o f rule o f law, building and
        strengthening the implementation of law and other legal document, which is the
        necessary factor to buildconfidence of investment.
    7. Continue to implement the public administrative reform, especially strengtheningthe
        implementation of Priority Mission Group, merit base payment initiative, and
        functional analysis inorder to improve civil service productivity and efficiency.

Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation(PRCO-1)

The PRGO has been implemented in order to enhance reforms in core sectors. In this
program, the Royal Government agreed to select three prioritized areas, the Public Financial
Management Reform Program, Land Management Reform Program and Private Sector
-Development.The PRGO is a good instrument to improve coordination between donors and
government, alignment of donor priority with government reform priorities and more
effective govemment-development partner dialogue on cross cutting issues. Moreover, the
PRGO also provides a number of opportunities to strengthen the strategic linkages between
the    Rectangular     Strategy    and    the    National    Strategic    Development    Plan.

The selection of these three sectors in the first PRGO reflects the Royal Government of
Cambodia's prioritized reform programs both in the Rectangular Strategy and National
Strategic Development Plan 2006-2010. These are cross-cutting areas that will have potent
impacts, or positive externalities, on other reform programs by contributing both poverty
reductionand growth.

The progress in these three sectors will contribute tremendously to the improvement of the
private sector by reducing transaction costs associated with trade and investment, introducing
transparency in investment processes, facilitating access of enterprises to export markets;
improving public financial management by reducing corruption and improving transparency
in the public spending; and providing a secure and proper property rights to all the people.
The PRGO-1 has been divided into three different components with detailed agreed actions
and clear output.

Components and PRGO-1Prior Actions:

The first component in the PRGO-I focused on Private Sector Development (PSD). Even
though the government had a pro-poor trade strategy, the Private Sector Forum, WTO
membership, and reforms of the foreign investment regime, it was acknowledged that further
work was needed to develop a clear strategy on private sector development. The objective o f '
the PSD initiative was the establishment of a single entry point, or 'ASYCUDA-based Single
Window,' that would allow all parties involved in trade to fulfill the documentary and

                                                                                          53

payment requirements for import or export in a single transaction. Prior actions for PRGO-I
include:
     1. Issuance of Prime Ministerial Order requiring all relevant agencies to define their
        critical data needs for the adoptionof a single administrative document (SAD)

    2. Issue a sub-decree and implementing regulations on trade facilitation through a risk
        management approach to inspectionsand clearance of imports and exportsof goods

    3. Adopt sub-decrees establishing Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and an SEZ Board in
        CDC

Component 2 focused on the strengthening public financial management by improving the
quality of publicly provided social services and increasing the amount and effectiveness of
public resources, which would enable the government to deliver poverty-reducing services in
health, education and other important social sectors. The transparent and effective public
expenditure and financial management system will definitely enhance allocative and
operational efficiency and reduce the level of fiduciary risk to public funds. Component 2 of
the prior actions for PRGO-1are:

    4. Fortify decentralizedprocurement by strengthening the 1995 procurement sub-decree
        and the 1998 implementing regulations to promote economy, efficiency, and
        transparency

    5. Develop and implement first phase of new transaction processes from budget release
        to commitment in order to streamline budget execution

    6. Increasereliance on the banking system for tax and customs payments, and for RGC
        payments to creditors and civil servants via transfer and/or check

    7. Introduce an official merit-basedpay and employment reform pilot in MEF in support
        of the PFMRP

Finally, the component 3 focused on Land and Natural Resources ManagementReform. The
Royal Government of Cambodia i s redoubling its efforts to reduce poverty by providing all
Cambodian people with more secure property rights and access to land. Improving land
management has the potential to directly reduce rural poverty by enabling people to make
greater use of the nation productive assets. The secured land title will definitely contribute to
the improvement of the productivity, rebuilding the agricultural sector and contributing to the
poverty reduction. Component3 prior actions for PRGO-1 are:

    8. COM adopts Sub-decree on State Land Management including participation o f local
       communities in mapping and land use planning, as well as open public access at
       provincial level to register of state land use information and issues implementing
       regulations

   9. COM adopts Sub-decree on Economic Land Concessions that includes provisions for
       resolution with local communities of issues of prior occupancyhse of lands and
       classification of land to excludeforests and protected areas

   10.Establish a mechanism and periodically disseminate information on Economic Land
       Concessions

PRGO-2 Triggers

Realizing that the selected three reform programs in PRGO-I are potent to the poverty
reduction and economic development and have not been completed yet, the Royal
Government of Cambodia will continue to focus on these three reforms programs in the
PRGO-2. The Royal Government of Cambodia has engaged actively with the World Bank to
set the triggers under these three reformprograms,

Moreover, the recent confirmed discovery of oil reserves has sparked debate over the
management of oil revenue. The Royal Government understands that the proper and
transparent management and accountability of oil revenue will be crucial in serving the
development purpose and avoiding the resource curse. Oil revenue will provide additional
resources for financing development projects in Cambodia and present opportunity to bolster
Cambodia's medium to long term growth, promote greater economic diversification and
poverty reduction.

In this regard, the Royal Government of Cambodia is considering the endorsement of the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) in order to define the proper policies for
efficient management of oil revenues. The Prime Minister has indicated that all oil revenues
will go directly to the budget and will be managedunder the PFMReformProgram.

Conclusion

The good performance in the last decade and the rapidpoverty reductionshow that Cambodia
has been on the right path of development. This progresswould have never happenedwithout
the reforms initiated by the Royal Government of Cambodia and help from all development
partners. However, the road ahead is still long. With CMDGs as the goal, the Royal
Government of Cambodia once again reiterates its stand and commitment to stay on the
course of reform and would like to request all necessary assistances from the International
Development Association, so that those reforms will be successfully implemented and
prosperity will avail for all Cambodian people.

               -
               Your Excellent1 the assurances ofmy highest consideration.
                                1 ,                                          F-

                     -I


Senior Minister
Ministerof Economy and Finance

                   W

W
0
R     .-0
      m
      c     .-m
            c
      7     0      g4
'
a,
c
1     0   0 7      U
                   E
E                  m




                  P      P P P
      I r        I
      -3
      a   a-3    a -3




      0   0      x
     00   00     0

                              m
                               W




       CD
       0                 cc
       0               C
                   CD   cu
                       C
                0
       n
       %    W
           0 E3  N       z
                     I:
                   W
                7  c
       c
       En    c
             W

          7  2     3     9E
       r%              z C




 8
  z
  K
  W
 sz
  0




I

       7J
       m
       S

E?
c
0
8
4
f




W
0
0
N


n
zl
E
z
s


      P          P
      a
      2          a
                 2




4     a
0     0
      <




           w
      -   c
          o
      .-o
      '5 I ru
           w

t-
I                       .-0
                        m
                        c
                        7
                      0




     E    E       F
     n    n       n                      bU
      od                                 i
     0      od
          n       ed
                  n            EE  FE


    0z    0
          z    0
               r       UW
                      5

W
3     W     xcu
            (0    W
                8
LL
K                 cu
w    8cu    0   E
I-
z           2   n

-r




      -2
      m

                         W
                         0
                         cu
                         0




                      -


   FT
    W  PTW

              a a
              5 5   P
                         n
                         2




                         0
                         0
                         n




vi
%
e
0

._a
 =
u
Ec
0
a?
0
V
0
v)


c
b
m
+
r
-
c
-.
m
Q
W
E
E
m
s
P
n
              .-
              > * *


                         .-m
                         c
                         5
                         E
                         8
                         5
                         c
                         8
                         E
                         m
                         0

                z   0Q,
                    2




t-




      0   0     n   n      n
      v)
      a   v)
          a     v)
                a   v)
                    a      v)
                           a

P
W  0
   n
v) 0

           Joint Monitoring Indicators for 1st CDCF Meeting (19-20 June
                                                               2007)
       To be implemented and monitoredin the period between the first and second meetingsof
                                                               the CDCF




                                                                                         :L-
                                                                                         NSDPI
                              Approve final MPSP as a strategic document to be
                              implemented with coordinated EDP support.
                              Bring together the NSDP APR and the alignment section o IEF                   3 be     UN
                              the CDC AER to document and assess progress on key                            eterminedyhers
                                                                                                                       B
                              NSDP indicators and resources committedJalignedto          DC
                              NSDP priorities.
                              Strengthening Ownership, Managing for Results and
                              Mutual Accountability. Developmentpartners: (i) report to  RDBICDC P+H TWG
                              CDC on details of all new and on-going support; (ii)
                              provide up-dated information in the CDC Database; and
                              (iii) hold periodic consultationswith CDC to validate data
                              and to assess progress in implementing H-A-R priority
                              actions;

                              Promoting Harmonisationand Alignment. Progress in          RDBJCDC All TWGs   ully     JICA
                              implementing the H-A-R Action Plan and TWG Guideline is                      ?sourced MDSP
                              reported by TWGs and consolidatedas a background
                              document for each GDCC meeting;

                              Managingfor Results.The H-A-RAction Plan is                RDBJCDC P+H TWG
                              augmented with a set of indicators, the Aid Effectiveness
                              Report assesses progress in H-A-RAction Plan
                              implementation and is presentedto CDCF.
INSDP
:'                                                                                       I
        Social Sector Prioi   ?S
    Improved  opportunities                                                                      W G
 or primary                1.Increasethe net enrolment in primary school (total, and    MOEYS
                              by sex).                                                           Education

                           2. Increase the sulvival rate from grades 1to 6.                      I        I
  . Increasethe  proportion                                                             MoH
4f deliveries attended by  1. Recruitmentand deploymentof at least68 midwivesfor

Okilled health personnelin    68 health centres that do not yet have any midwife by the
the public sector to 45% by   end of 2007
 December 2007 (38% in     2. Provide salary incentivesto midwives  -an  incentive based
 December 2006)               on the number of deliverieswas adopted under the Inter-
                              Ministerial Prakasof the MEF and the MoH No 268, April 2
                              2007 and the adapted midwife salary scales and
                              compensationpaymentsfor professional related health
                              risks as proposed by MoH are to be endorsed at a full
                             session of the Cabinet of Ministers.

5. Enhanced national                                                                    NAA&NACD TWG
responseto                   Increase coverage of effective drug & HIVIAIDS                      HIVIAIDS
pandemic                     prevention, comprehensive care and support, and effective
                             mitigations interventions.
6. Foodsecurity and                                                                              TWG-FSN
nutrition integrated into   Under RGC leadership, a Strategic Framework to              MOP
relevant sector             mainstream food security and nutrition is developed by      CARD
                            TWG-FSN and endorsed by relevant ministries.

I
NSDP EconomicSector Priorities




                                                                                                                     71

. Implement   and monitor 1. Progressive implementation of the Strategy for AgricLltun
 partnership-based               and Water, as required by the NSDP:                        IAFF    WG-AW

pproach to agriculture an1                                                                  IOWRAM
later sector priorities.         a) Reachingagreement by the end of June 2007 on a
                                     Statement of Principles to guide donors and
                                     Government agencies working the in agriculture and
                                     water sectors
                                 b) Obtaining approval by MAFF, MOWRAM and donors or
                                     the terms of referencefor the design of the 5 National
                                     Programs under the SAW, by July 2007
                                 c) Completing the design of two National Programs by
                                     the end of December 2007, and
                                 d) Completing design of all 5 National Programs by the
                                     end of July 2008.
                             2. Improved donor and government coordination
                                 a) Ensure relevant stakeholdershave up to date
                                     information on activities by posting twice each year (a
                                     end June and end December) on the TWGAW website
                                     an updated project database listing the donor and
                                     government activities in the agriculture and water
                                     sectors.
.Implementthe      legal    1. To adopt RGCs Policy on Registrationand Use Rights of        ILMUPC  WG-Land
,amework establishedby           Indigenous Communal Land and pilot interim protective
le Land Law                      measures (identification, mapping, classificationand
                                 provisionalendorsementof indigenousland legal claims)
                                 to safeguard the indigenouscommunity's land in two
                                 provinces within the framework of provincial level state
                                 land management committees and district working group:
                                 as per Sub-Decree #118).
                            L To improve the livelihoodsof the rural poor, i.e. 500
                                 eligible households are settled on social land concessions
                                 with livelihoodsupport and at least 10,000 hectaresof
                                 suitable land confirmed as available for social land
                                 concessions

                                                                                                    WG-F&E
I With the aim of stoppin! 1. Implement all provisionsof the sub-decree on ELCs,            1AFF
le loss                          including establishingand making public log book of ELCs,
f Cambodia's forest              including those issued at provincial level, and review a           WG-L
?sources,the legal               minimum of 5 economic land concessions over 10,000
.ameworks established by         hectares, taking appropriate action consistent with
le Forestry Law and in           Chapter 6 of the Sub-Decree on ELCs.
articular the Sub-Decree
n Economic Land             ?.Rapid implementation across Cambodia of forest
oncessions must be fully         demarcationin accordance with the sub-decree No. 53,
nplemented at all levels o       dated 1April 2005.
iovernment agencies.
0. Take appropriate actio1 1. Cambodian Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries           IAFF    WG-
  reflect the priorities of      (Camcode) drafted by the end of 2007                               isheries
ie Fisheries sector to
nprovethe livelihoodsof     ?, Work with the government agencies/ revenue authorities

iral communities in              and donors to ensure the FiA is adequatelyfunded
mmune, district and              including the revenue from the sector to carry out its
rovincial development            mandate with referenceto Article 14 of the Fisheries Law
lans as well as donor         3. Donors in fisheries use the planning, accounting and
inding levels.                   monitoring systems of the FisheriesAdministration to be
                                 in line with MTEF and MBPI by the end of 2007.
1.Further reduction of 7C L.     Ensure the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of    MAA     WG-MA
0 landmines/ERW                  existing mine action/ERW policy, strategy, and action
ssualties and a decrease         plans.
-10% of contaminated
iine/ERW land               !. Ensuretimely disbursementof RGCand development
                                 partner funds.
                             1. Improve mechanism to monitor the use of resources and
                                their impact in a transparent, efficient and effective
                                 manner.



                                                                                                                72

                             Relevant agencies (Le. MOC, MoH, MAFF, MIME and MEF) MOC, MoH,        WG-PSD
                                                                                                             l  l
                             to sign and implement the Service Level Agreements,        MAFF, MIME
                             attaching agreed  -upon   lists of prohibited goods betweenand MEF
                             trade related agencies.

                             Review implementation of risk management and act           MOC
                             accordinglyto reduce the inspectionrate to fifty percent
                             including in SEZ's. Review to be conducted under the
                             purview of the Sub-steering Committeeon Trade
                             Development.

                             Make specific recommendationson 20 priority licenses       IIME
                             impacting on SMEs to ensure relevancy, efficiency, and
                             cost effectiveness
I

                                                                                        MPWT       WG-I
 National and Rural Road      Develop Action Plansfor the Establishment of the Road     MRD
 Network                     Network Maintenance Management Systems by June
                             2008.
                              Preserve Road Assets by (i) piloting and review of out-
                             sourcing of 3 periodic road maintenancecontracts (June
                             2008); and (ii) improving and developing Overload Control
                             Programs (June 2008).
 14 Increase use of
 improved sanitation,        Develop and adopt a rural water supply and sanitation                 orking
 hygiene and drinking watei  (RWSS) strategy and budget that is based on the official              roup is to
supply, especially in rural  RWSS policy and aligned to the NSDP
areas                                                                                              stablished
                                                                                                  under a
                                                                                                  relevant
                                                                                                     G to be

 NSDPGovernanceand           ;s-Sectoral Priorities
 15. Further develop the     Implementthe approved "Joint Government-Donor               AR        WG-PAR
 Public Administration to    Strategy for Phasing Out Salary SupplementationPractice
serve people better and to   in Cambodia" by:
become an effective          a. implementing approved sectoral action plans; and
                             b. establishingPriority Mission Groups (PMGs), and
                              PMG/Merit Based Pay Initiatives (PMG/MBPIs) in MOH,
                              and at least one other ministry/agency.
                             Improve pay and employment conditions in the civil
i                             service by developing and implementing:
                             a. a medium term strategy and action plan to enhance
                              remuneration; and
                             b. a redeployment policy and action plan.
                             Design and implement an HRM policy and action plan to
                             improve merit and performance management by
                             introducing an HRM Guide and further developingthe
                             Human Resource ManagementInformation System
                             (HRMIS) for the Civil Service.
                             Enhance service delivery though developinga One
                             Window Offices (OWOs) policy, legal framework and
I                            implementation plan, including establishmentof at least 5
                             OWOs across Cambodia.
                              URS Strategic Objective 2. Complete the drafting and       03        IR-TWG
 unctioning, transparent     approval of the remaining fundamental Laws (Penal
  nd accountable legal and   Procedure Code, Penal Code, Civil Code, Law on the
'udicial system that protect Statute of the Judges, Law on Court Organizationand
individual rights as defined Functioning, Law on the Amendment of the Law on the
in the Constitution          Organizationand Functioningof the Supreme Council of
                             the Magistracy).
                             URS Strategic Objectives 2 & 7. Review and finalise
                             guidelinesfor the legislative drafting process that draws


                                                                                                                 73

                              on lessonsfrom past experience. Guidelines should seek
                             to inform externally mobilised TA, with an emphasis on
                              building the capacity and ownership of the relevant
                              Ministry's legal unit.
                            . URS Strategic Objectives7 & 4. Ongoing training and
                             transparent selection of judicial professionals to improve
                             the supply of judicial services and the functioning of the
                              courts.
                            .  Finalize and approve Anti-Corruption Law, based on best 10NASRI
                               international practices.
                            .                                                           :OM
                               Prepare an implementation plan to enforce and manage
                              the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Law.
                            .  Disseminate information on reported cases on corruption
                              and conviction on semi-annual basis.

                            I  Develop a clear policy framework on Access to
                               Information.
18. Preparation made for    IContinue preparation and initiate broad stakeholder        CDD
full implementation of the   consultationson the organic laws on democratic
RGC'sStrategic Framework     development at sub-national level during 44 of 2007.
fro Decentralisationand
Deconcentration(D&D)        . National  programmedesign process and modalities          CDD
reforms.                      developed, agreed, and resourced for implementation to
                              begin in 2nd quarter of 2008.

                            . RGC   and development partners design the principlesof    CDD
                              engagement in support of D&D reform in Cambodia.
19. A more credible budget                                                              IEF
and more effective financialContinue implementing the PFMRP by:
accountability                a) sustaining actions already implementedand
                                  completing the remaining key actions necessary for
                                  Platform 1;
                               b) preparing the consolidatedaction plan for
                                  implementation of Stage Z/Platform 2), including to
                                  make recommendationson the endorsement of Em;
                                  and
                              c) continue monitoring impact through the agreed PFM
                                  Performance Indicators.
20. Adopt laws and sub-     . Sub-decree   on the administrative decision on domestic
decrees and relevant legal   violence adopted.                                          loJ
documents, and implement                                                                lo1
plans against all forms of  . Law  on suppression of human trafficking and sexual       IOWA
violence and exploitation    exploitation adopted, and in compliance with the UN        IOLvr
against women and             Protocol on trafficking and UN convention on transnationa
children, accordingto        organized crime, and the Cambodian draft penal code.
international standards     . NationalAction   plan to combat violence against women
                              implemented.The specific target for 2007 is to establish a
                             working group in MoI/DOLA for training materials on the
                            .Sub-decree.legislationon
                              Policy and                migration reviewed. Specific
                             targets for 2007 include: Adopt comprehensive Strategy
                             Paper on Migrationthat links Migrationwith Trafficking,
                             Smuggling and the Labour Law Reform and closes existinc
                             legal gaps to enhance legal protection of migrants.




                                                                                                  74


            W
            t-




LL
0     ._
      U
      c




I t



ANNEX 4: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE

                      Cambodia:Assessment Letter for World BankPRGO
                                                June 18,2007
Contactperson:Mr.Jeremy Carter
                         A. RecentEconomic Developmentsand Outlook'
1.      Recent macroeconomicperformancehas been very strong, underpinnedby cautious
fiscal policy,significant aid, and increasingforeign direct investment. Growth in2006 is
currently estimated to have been 10% percent. Inflation has stabilized in the low single digits
while continued strong performance in the garments and tourism sectors led to a narrowingof
the external current account deficit in 2006. Financing from aid and increased FDIallowed
further reserve accumulation. Financial intermediationcontinuesto expand rapidly (40 percent
annually) but the level remains very low-credit represents about 12 percent o f GDP. The
exchange rate has been broadly stable.

2.      Rapid growthis expected to continuein the comingyears. Continued highlevels o f
FDIwill support activity inexport-oriented sectors while agriculture iswell-placed to expand
steadily. Nevertheless, risksdo remain. Inparticular, the accession o f Vietnam to the WTO will
challenge Cambodia's competitiveness in the garments sector and the soundness o fthe banking
sector remains a key concern. Improving governance remains crucial to sustainable economic
and social development-a       weak rule o f law and widespread corruptioncontinue to place a drag
on economic activity, investment, and government revenue.

3.      For the longer term, oil productioncould havea significant impacton activityand
the budget position. There is still considerable uncertainty as to scale and timingo foil
production, Chevron, the only active operator, has yet to announce the results oftheir latest
exploration drilling. As a result, the Fundstaffs principal current medium-term macroeconomic
framework does not include estimates o f the potential impact.

4.      With grants and concessionallendingmore than financingthe fiscal deficit,public
debt is sustainablewith only moderate risk of distress.The DSA shows public external debt
declining fiom 33 percent of GDP in 2006 to 9 percent in 2027 and debt service at very,low
levels. Cambodia remains in arrears ondebts to the United States and the Russian Federation,
dating from the 1970sand 1980sand totaling $800 million. Nevertheless, caution needsto be
exercised in borrowing based on the recently-acquired sovereign credit rating. Stress tests that
illustrate the effect of large-scale (10 percent o f GDP) borrowing on commercial terms yield
significant fiscal costs, though do not materially change the findings o fthe DSA.




' Thisassessment is basedon Article IV policy discussions inMay-June2007.The 2007 consultationis expectedto
be concludedby the IMF ExecutiveBoardin early August. The 2006 Article IV was concludedon July 7,2006.




                                                                                                          83

                                           B. Fiscalpolicy
5.       Fiscal policy is prudent but weak administration impedes the effectiveness of the tax
system and the quality of expenditure. Whereas moderateprimary deficits are more than
financed with aid, revenue is very low and excessively dependent on taxes on international trade.
It is important that with trade liberalization reducingexternal tariffs, medium-term revenue
policies focus on steps to broaden the base and improve the efficiency and equity of the domestic
tax system (including incorporating the nascent oil sector). Successfulimplementation ofthe
authorities' Public Financial ManagementReform Programwill also enable gains inbudget
management neededfor sustained increases inpoverty-reducing expenditure. An important part
of that strategy will be civil service reform.

6.       The 2007 budget reflectsthe government's cautious approach in recentyears of
settingvery low revenue targets, while constrainingspending. Taking account o f the
enhanced economic outlook and continued strong collections, revenue should be expectedto
exceed budget projections significantly. Reflecting the additional resources available-even after
the recent within-year wage increase, which added less than 0.1 percentof GDPto the 2007
wage bill-the    government could then ensure that budgetary allocations to priority sectors are
fully executed, allow additional growth inpoverty-reducing expenditure, or further reduce
domestic payment arrears.

                                 C. Monetary and financial sector
7.      I n the staff`s view, dollarization has been, and will continue to be a valuable
foundation for Cambodia's macroeconomic stability and financial sector growth. Recent
strong growth in money demand is to be expectedat this stage of Cambodia's development and
i s consistent with low inflationover the medium term. Active monetarypolicy i s precluded by
the high level of dollarization. The National Bank ofCambodia(NBC)'s passive monetary
approachof supplying riel through foreign exchange purchases inresponse to demandwhile .
avoiding fiscal financing is appropriate. Staffcontinues to support the policy of a stable nominal
exchange rate against the US dollar, which has beenpart of a successful policy of reserve
accumulation, strong export performanceand low inflation.                                   .   .

8.      The rapidly expandingbanking sector remainsvulnerable and the central bank
needs to be strengthened. Reportedsystem-wide non-performing loans are low (around 10
percent), but there are concerns as to the quality of asset classification and the level of exposure
to the booming real estate market. Information on both is limited. Enforcement of prudential
regulations remains patchy. Rapid credit expansion reinforcesthe importanceof effective bank
supervision and stronger enforcement of prudential regulations. In particular, decisive measures
to address weaknesses inthe two largest, jointly owned, banksxanadia and FTB-are
important.




                                                                                                    84

                                   D. Relationswith the Fund
9.     A proposed PRGFarrangement remainsstalled as negotiationson outstanding
bilateral debt obligationscontinue. A Fundarrangementcannot be put in placewhile arrears
existto official creditorsunless agreement is reachedto reschedule,within the context ofthe
Paris Club. An in-principleagreementhas beenreachedwith the UnitedStates but is still to be
finalized.However, agreement is yet to be reachedonthe rescheduling ofRussiandebt. At the
authorities' request, staff has agreedto maintainan intensive policy dialogue until a formal
program can be presentedto the Board.The monitoringwill address progressagainstthe
authorities' macroeconomic targets andstructuralreformpriorities.The Fundcontinuesto
provideextensivetechnicalassistance,particularlyto the central bank and inpublic financial
management(workingclosely with the World Bank) and revenueadministration.




                                                                                              85

                                 Table 1. Cambodia: Selected Economic Indicators, 2004-08
Nominal GDP (2006):       $7254 million
GDP per capita (2006):     $513
Population (2006):         14 2 million
Fund Quota.                SDR87.5 million

                                                                        2004             2005            2006          2007     2008
                                                                                                           Est.        Proj.     Proj.
Real economy                                                                      (annual growth rates, in percent)
Real GDP                                                                10.0              13.5            10.6           9.1       7.9
 Real GDP excluding agriculture                                         15.2               0.7            17.0         11.3        9.5
 Real agricultural output                                                -0.9             15.7             5.5           3.4       3.4
GDP deflator                                                              4.8              6.1             4.7           4.0       3.9
CPI Inflation (end of period)                                             5.6              6.7             2.8           3.8       3.8

                                                                                         (in percent of GDP)
Domestic investment                                                     17.7              20.1            21.5         21.5      23.7
 Government investment                                                    6.0              5.4             5.6           5.3       5.6
 Non-budgetary grant-financed investment                                  4.3              3.1             2.7           3.1       3.3
 Nongovernment investment                                                 7.4             11.6            13.2         13.0      14.8
National saving                                                         15 5              15.8            19.5         19.4      19.9
 Government saving                                                        1.4              1.8             2.3           2.1       2.1
 Nongovernment saving                                                   14.2              14.1            17.2         17.3      17.8

Money and credit                                                    (annual growth rates in percent, unless othelwise indicated)
Broad money                                                             30 4              16 1            36 2         42 9      27.0
Net credit to the government 1/                                          -2 4             -49            -10 6          -0 6      -0.1
Private sector credit                                                   35 9              31 8            51 6         44 7      35.0
Velocity of money 21                                                      5 4              5 4             4 9           4 0       3.4

Government operations                                                                    (in percent of GDP)
Revenue 3/                                                              10.3              10.3            11.5         10.7      11.2
 Of which: Tax revenue                                                    7.7              7.6             8.0           8.2       6.5
Expenditure                                                             14.9              13.5            13.5         13.9      14.4
 Current expenditure                                                      8.9              8.1             8.0           8.5       8.8
 Capital expenditure 41                                                  6.0               5.4             5.6           5.3       5.6
Overall budgetbalance                                                   -4.6              -3.2            -2.0          -3.2      -3.2
Overall budget balance (ind. grants)                                    -2 9              -1.0             0.5          -1.3      -1.8
Foreign financing, net                                                   4.7               4.7             4.5           3.9       3.3
Domestic financing 51                                                   -0.2              -1.5            -2.5          -0.7      -0.1
Balance of payments                                                      (in millions of dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
Exports                                                                2,589             2,910          3,693         4,270     4,726
Imports                                                               -3,269           -3.928          -4.749        -5,489    -6,176
Current account (exd. official transfers)                               -436             -591            -525          -592      -794
 (in percent of GDP)                                                    -8.2              -9.4            -7.2          -7.1      -8.5
Current account (ind. official transfers)                               -118              -265           -146          -174      -352
 (in percent of GDP)                                                    -2.2              -4.2            -2.0          -2.1      -3.8
Overall balance                                                           49                65             193          246       165
Gross official reserves                                                  809               915           1,097        1,400     1,609
 (in months of imports of goods and non-factor services)                 2.6               2.4             2.4           2.6       2.6
 (in percent of uncovered dollar deposits in banks) 61                   179               146             113           90        78
Public external debt 718/                                              2,043             2,107          2,235         2,440     2,641
 (in percent of GDP)                                                    38.5              33.6            30.8         29.2      28.2
Public debt service (cash basis)                                          28                29             28            28        36
 (in percent of exports of goods and services)                           0.8               0.7             0.6           0.5       0.6
Memorandum items:
Nominal GDP (in billions of riels)                                    21,343           25,693          29,809        33,822   37,905
 (in millions of US. dollars)                                          5.306             6,271          7,254
Exchange rate (riels per dollar: end of period)                        4,031             4,116          4,046                       ...
 Sources: Data provided by the Cambodian authorities: and Fund staff estimates and projections.
 1/ Contribution to broad money growth.
 2/ Ratio of nominal GDP to average stock of broad money.
 31In 2006, includestransfer of MDRI proceeds as capital revenue transfer.
 41Includes repayment of arrears in 2004 and 2005.
 51Includesfunds in transit and payment orders in excess of cash released.
 6/ Dollar deposits in commercial banks net of their unrestricted reserves at NBC.
 71From January 2006 includes the impact of debt forgiveness from the IMF under the MDRI.
 8/ Russian Federation debt Is valued at 0.6 USSR Roubles per US$with the standard 70 percent discount.




                                                                                                                                          86

ANNEX 5. CAMBODIA AT A GLANCE
                                       Cambodia at a glance                                                                      4117/07


                                                                        East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     Asia &    Low-
                                                         Cambodia      Pacific Income       Developmentdiamond'
2005
Population, mid-year (millions)                                  14.1   1,885    2,353
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               430    1,627     580                   Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  6.1   3,067    1,364                         -
Average annual growth, 1999-05
Population (%)                                                    2.0     0.9      1.9
Labor force (%)                                                   3.1     1.3      2.3      GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                            per                                  primarb
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                       capita                            enrollmenl
Poverty ("A ofpopulation below national pover?y line)              35
Urban population (% of total population)                           20      42       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   57      70       59                         1
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                            97      29       80
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                          45      15       39           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source ("A ofpopulation)               41      79       75
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                          91       62
Gross primary enrollment (99 of school-age population)           137      115      104            -Cambodia
   Male                                                          142      116      110                   Low-income oroup
   Female                                                        131      114       99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1985       1995    2004     2005       Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                        ~
                                                                  3.4     5.3      6.2
Gross capital formationlGDP                                      14.4    17.5     19.7
Exports of goods and servicesIGDP                                31.2    64.5     65.1    I                  Trade
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                       -1.o    10.1     10.9
Gross national savingsiGDP                                        5.4    14.0     14.4
Current account balanceIGDP                                      -5.4    -2.3     -4.3
Interest paymentsiGDP                                             0.1     0.2      0.2      Domestic                         Capital

Total debffGDP                                                   66.3    65.4     56.8      savings                          formation
Total debt serviceleworts                                         0.7     0.8      0.8
Present value of debffGDP                                                54.5
Present value of debffexports                                            83.5             I              Indebtedness
                                       1985-95    1995-05       2004    2005   2005-09
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                   8.2        10.0    13.4      8.5             -Cambodia
GDP per capita                                        5.9         7.8    11.2      6.4                     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                ....    19.3        28.4    16.7


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     lQB5       lgQ52004         2005     1Growth of capltal and GDP ( O h )
PA of GDP)
Agriculture                                             ..       49.6    32.7     34.2      80 T                                        I
Industry                                                ..       14.8    27.7     26.7      60                                          II
  Manufacturing                                                   9.5    20.3     19.1     40

Services                                                ..       35.5    39.6     39.1     20
                                                                                             0
Household final consumption expenditure                 ..       95.2    85.3     85.0     -20
General goVt final consumption expenditure                        5 8     4 5      4 1               -GCF           -0-GDP
                                                                                          ~

Imports of goods and services                                    46 6    71 9     739   I




(average annual growth)                           1985-95      995-05

Agriculture                                                       3.8
Industry                                                         15.9
  Manufacturing                                         ......   18.2
Services                                                ..        8.2    11.7     12.1

Household final consumption expenditure                           8.4    11.8     12.2
General poVt final ConSumDtionexoenditure                         6.8
Gross capital formation                                 ..       12.2   -10.6     29.0             F E w o r t s   -O'lmpolts




                                                                                                                                        87

                                                                                                                   Cambodia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1985   1995    2004     2005
Dornesfic prices
(% chanqe)
Consumer prices                                       1 1     5.6      6.7
Implicit GDP deflator                               11 7      5.3      5.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                       7 5    10.4    10 0
Current budqet balance                               -0 6     1.3      1.6
Overall surolusideficit                              -6 6    -4.7     -3 2

TRADE
                                             1985   1995     2004    2005 7--
(US$ millions)                                                              ,Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                  855    2,589   2,910    15,000
 Rubber                                               41      115     118            -+I
 Logs and sawn timber                                                       !`4
                                                     185                       000
                                                               18      19
 Manufactures                                         27    1,963   2,171
Total imports (cif)                                1,167    3,270   3,928
 Food                                                 62       42      45
 Fuel and energy                                     105      575     788
 Capital qoods                                                961   1,030
Export price index (ZOOO=lOO)                         59                      ~         99    00    01    02     03    04     05

Import price index (2000=100)                                                I               X I Eworts       Tp Imports
Terms of trade (ZOOO=lOO)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1985   1995     2004    2005
/US$ miilionsj                                                                 Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of qoods and services                        969    3,394   4,028
Imports of qoods and services                       1,375   3,784   4,575
Resource balance                                    -406     -390    -547
Net income                                            -57    -221    -254
Net current transfers                                277      428     440
Current account balance                             -1 86    -122    -268
Financinq items (net)                                         198     401
Chanqes in net reserves                                       -76    -133        1
Memo:
Reserves includinq gold (US$ millions)                110     884    1,050
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  2 450 8  4,019.0 4,097.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1985   1995     2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                 :omposition of 2004 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed            7   2,284   3,439    3,515
  IBRD
  IDA                                                  65     467     462                                     8: 467

Total debt service                                      7      28      31
  IBRD
  IDA                                                           5        6
Composition of net resource flows
  Officialgrants                                5     312     174     210
  Official creditors                                   63     163      160
  Private creditors
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)             151     131      379
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)

World Bank program
  Commitments                                                                  i IBRD
                                                                                  -                                E - Bil;
  Disbursements                                                                 3 - IDA    D- Other muitilateral   F - P m
  Principal repayments                                                         ;-IMF                               G - ShC
  Net flows
  Interest payments
  Net transfers


Development Economics                                                                                                      4117/07




                                                                                                                                  88

                                        103 E                                     104 E                                 105 E                                         106 E                                           107 E

            0          20       40      60    80 Kilometers                            T H A I L A N D                                                                                    L A O P . D . R .                                                        CAMBODIA
            0                20          40        60 Miles            To
                                                                       To                              To
                                                                                                       To
                                                                   Pak Charang
                                                                   Pak Charang                       Khu Khan
                                                                                                     Khu Khan



                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                    ChampasakChampasak                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                            O D D A R                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                        To                             Kong
                                                   SamraongSamraong                                                                                                    PhiafaiPhiafai
                                                                       M E A N C H E Y                       Cheom Ksan
                                                                                                             Cheom Ksan                                                                                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                           Siem Pang
                                                                                                                                                                                           Siem Pang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
         14 N                                                            Sreng                                                               Kompong Sralao
                                                                                                                                              Kompong Sralao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14 N
                                                                                                          P R E A H              V I H E A R                                                       Kong             RATANAKIRIRA ANAKIRI                              RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
             To
             To                   BANTEAYBANTEA                                                                                                                                                                                                          Play Cu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Play Cu      MAIN ROADS
            BuriBuri                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Phum Kompadou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phum Kompadou
                                  MEANCHEY
                                  MEANCHEY                                                                    Phnum Tbeng
                                                                                                              Phnum Tbeng                   Melouprey
                                                                                                                                            Melouprey                                                         San
                                                                                                                 MeancheyMeanchey                         S T U N G T R E N G                                                BunBun                                   RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LongLong
                                          Sisophon
                                          Sisophon          KralanhKralanh
                                                                             S I E M R E A P                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                Stung Treng
                                                                                                                                                                                Stung reng                        Srepok      LomphatLomphat
                                                                                 Siem Reap
                                                                                 Siem Reap                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                  Rovieng
                                                                                                                                  Rovieng

                                                  Battambang
                                                  Battambang                   Tonle
         13 N                     B AT TA M B A N G                                                                                    Sen            g
                                                                                 Sap
                            Pailin
                            Pailin        Chas                                                                                                      Poron
                                                                                                      K A M P O N G                    T H O M                           Mekong                                                       KohniehKohnieh     13 N



                 PA I L I N                                                                                                                                                                                          M O N D O L
                                                                                                                           Kampong Thom
                                                                                                                           Kampong Thom
                                                                                                                                                                      K R A T I E                                         K I R I            ChbarChbar
                                                                                   Pursat
                                                                                   Pursat
                                                                                                                                                                                      KratieKratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SenmonoromSenmonorom

                                                           Peam
                                                           P U R S AT                                            Tonle                    KAMPONGKAMPONG
                                                                                                    KAMPONGKAMPONG                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                       paS                  CHAMCHAM                                                                                                Duc Lap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Duc Lap

                                                                                                                                                  KampongKampong
         12 N                                       Cardamom                                       CHHNANGCHHNANG
                                                                                        PhnumPhnum                                      Mekong    ChamCham                                                                                               12 N
                                                                                         AoralAoral
                                                                                     (1,810 m)
                                                                                     (1,810 m)                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                 PHNOM PENH
                                                                                                                                 PHNOM PENH                                                                              Ba Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ba Ra


                                             Krong Koh Kong
                                             Krong Koh Kong               Mts.      K A M P O N G
                                                                                                                            PHNOM PENH
                                                                                                                            PHNOM PENH
                                                                                          S P E U
                                                    K O H K O N G                        Kampong Speu
                                                                                         Kampong Speu                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                          Ta Khmau
                                                                                                                                 Khmau       Prey Veng
                                                                                                                                             Prey eng       SVAYSV                   Tay Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                     ay Ninh
                Gulf of                                                                                                   KANDALKANDAL                                                                      V I E T N A M
                                                                                                                                             PREYPREY      RIENGRIENG
            Thailand                                                                                                                        VENGVENG
                                                                                                                      Chambak
                                                                                                                      Chambak      Bass                               SvaySvay                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                    ka                                RiengRieng                  Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ho Chi Minh City

         11 N                                                                                                        Ta eo
                                                                                                                      Tak
                                                                   Chhak                                                                                                                                                                                 11 N
                                                            Kampong                                                                                                                                                                                                              CAMBODIA
                                                                   Saom                                          TAKEO
                                                                                                                   AKEO
          This map was produced by                                                    K A M P O T                                                To
                                                                                                                                                 To
          the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                          Cao Lanh
                                                                                                                                              Cao Lanh
          World Bank. The boundaries,            Sihanoukville
          colors, denominations and                                                 KampotKampot
          any other information shown                 S I H A N O U K -
          on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                           To
          the part of The World Bank                               V I L L E                    Kep
JUN                                                                                                                     Long Xuyen
                                                                                                                        Long Xuyen
          Group, any judgment on the
          legal status of any territory,                                                                      To
                                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                                                                    33381R
   E2006  or any endorsement or                                                                             Rach Gia
                                                                                                            Rach Gia
          a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                       K E P
          boundaries.                   103 E                                     104 E                                 105 E                                         106 E                                           107 E

