Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H324-KH     
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 14, 2007 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2007, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
CAMBODIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,800,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
Page  3
2
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sang Kat Wat Phnom 
 Phnom 
Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
855-23-427798  
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  4
3
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By: /s/ Keat Chhon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE  
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions taken under the Program
1. 
The Recipient has issued on December 6, 2005 Prime Ministerial Order 
(PMO/90-SCD) to the Senior Minister, the Minister of Economy and Finance, 
the Chairman of the Steering Committee of Private Sector Development, the 
Minister of Commerce and the Chairman of the Sub-Steering Committee of 
Trade Facilitation, requiring them to coordinate with each other and with other 
government ministries and agencies, development partners, and the private 
sector, and to take appropriate action towards the adoption of a single 
administrative document that incorporates and contains all relevant information 
required by all concerned ministries and agencies for imports and exports 
administration.  
 
2. 
The Recipient has adopted on March 1, 2006 sub-decree No.21 on the facilitation 
of trade, through the issuance of guidelines for implementation of risk 
management in the Royal Government of Cambodia by ministries and agencies 
involved with importation and exportation formalities.  
 
3. 
The Recipient has adopted on December 29, 2005 sub-decree No.148 ANK.BK 
on the establishment and management of the Special Economic Zone. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has taken measures to promote economy, efficiency, and 
decentralization of public procurement by issuing: 
 
(a) 
on January 3, 2005 prakas No.045 (MEF) on the Implementation of 
Deconcentrated Public Procurement, to deconcentrate procurement in 
ministries, provinces, and state owned enterprises and raising 
procurement thresholds under which government ministries and agencies 
may undertake procurement subject to post-review;  
 
(b) 
on June 30, 2006 prakas No.401 (MEF) on the Implementation of Public 
Procurement Modes, restricting the use of non-competitive procurement 
methods; and  
 
(c) 
on October 28, 2006 Sub-decree No.105 on Public Procurement, which 
amends the 1995 Sub-decree on the Management of Public Procurement 
and on January 23, 2007 prakas No.101 on the corresponding revised 
implementing rules and regulations on public procurement, both of 
which provide the new legal foundation for the management of public 
procurement.  
Page  6
5
5. 
The Recipient has developed and implemented new streamlined processes for 
budget execution, from commitment to payment, in order to make the budget 
more credible by making execution more timely and predictable, through the 
issuance on December 29, 2006 of: 
 
(a)  
Instructing Circular on the Reduction of Control Procedures on Public 
Financial Management, No.015 (MEF); and  
 
(b) 
prakas No.1415 (MEF) on the Delegation of Power to Financial 
Controllers Stationed at Ministries/Institutions at the Central 
Administration to Issue Visas on Spending Guarantees and Mandates for 
Disbursement.   
 
6. 
The Recipient has increased its reliance on the banking system by: 
 
(a)     issuing (i) on December 31, 2004 prakas 636, on the procedures for 
payment of customs and excise taxes by check and direct payment 
through the National Bank of Cambodia, for tax and customs payments; 
and (ii) on March 7, 2007 a clarifying instruction (No.1177) requiring 
that all customs and excise duty obligations above      US$1,000 in 
Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville be paid by check at the National Bank of 
Cambodia; 
 
(b) 
issuing in September 2006, through the Director of the National 
Treasury, an instruction for all payments to government creditors to be 
made by check or transfer in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, and  
 
(c) 
by implementing on August 1, 2006 a pilot project for paying selected 
civil servants in MEF and the Ministry of Health via electronic transfer, 
as per the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the MEF and the 
ANZ Bank. 
 
7.   
The Recipient has adopted on August 5, 2005 sub-decree No.98 on the 
Implementation of the Merit-based Pay Supplement Incentive.  
 
8.  
The Recipient has adopted on October 7, 2005 sub-decree No.118 HNH.BK, and 
on March 10, 2006 prakas 42, each on State Land Management, including 
participation of local communities in mapping and land use planning, and 
permitting open public access at the provincial level to register information on 
the existing use of state land. 
 
9. 
The Recipient has adopted on December 27, 2005 sub-decree No.146 ANK.BK 
on Economic Land Concessions which includes provisions for resolution with 
local communities of issues of prior occupancy/use of lands and classification of 
Page  7
6
land to exclude forests and protected areas, and has established the Economic 
Land Concessions Technical Secretariat.  
 
10. 
The Recipient has issued on June 30, 2006 Prime Minister decision No.27 which 
establishes a technical secretariat as a mechanism to disseminate information on 
Economic Land Concessions, and has started dissemination of such information. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Single Tranche 
9,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
9,800,000
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b)  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s National Treasury, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit 
account in United States Dollars at the National Bank of Cambodia designated by 
the Recipient and on terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Page  8
7
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the bank account mentioned in paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to in paragraph 2 above; 
 
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the National Bank of Cambodia, and the equivalent 
amounts credited in local currency to the National Treasury Single 
Account to finance budgeted expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the Central Treasury account to 
finance budgeted expenditures into which the local currency amounts 
have been deposited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than     
six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is April 15, 2008. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions  
 
1. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section II (C) 2 of this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group
Description of Item
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
        718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
        728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
        897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  10
9
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
4. 
“MEF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance and any 
successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 2, 2007, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
Page  11
10 
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
Page  12
11 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
