Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3001 
Operation Name 
First Development Policy Grant 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Other domestic and international trade (33%);General public 
administration sector (33%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (12%);General education sector (11%);Health 
(11%) 
Project ID 
P071103 
Borrower(s) 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
Cambodia 
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 22, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 15, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Cambodia is a post-conflict country, and though the Paris Peace Accords formally established a 
truce in 1991, politico-military violence continued until 1997.
 
Many important institutions of 
governance and public sector management, destroyed during the Khmer Rouge period, are only 
just starting to be rebuilt according to democratic and meritocratic norms. The conflict has 
contributed to weak governance and high levels of corruption. Poor governance is thus the 
primary constraint on development in general and on the World Bank Group’s program in 
particular. 
 
Cambodia’s devastating conflict—many important institutions of governance were destroyed 
during the Khmer Rouge period and are only just starting to be rebuilt—has resulted in weak 
governance and high levels of corruption.
 
The Transparency International (TI) Corruption 
Perceptions Index (CPI) shows that the level of corruption in Cambodia is perceived to be high, 
though comparable to those of other Low Income Countries under Stress (LICUS). 
 
Cambodia’s real GDP grew by 9.5 percent in 2006, following an unprecedented 13.4 percent 
growth rate in 2005.
1
In both years the stellar performance was driven by solid garment exports, 
strong tourism receipts, significant growth in FDI, the continuing construction boom, and robust 
crop growth in agriculture. Agriculture remained a crucial sector for the economy, accounting for 
38 percent of GDP growth and some 60 percent of total employment in 2005. Consumer price 
inflation is projected have fallen to around 3 percent in 2006, down from 6.7 percent in 2005.  
A
sound macroeconomic framework has helped underpin success in recent years, with 
Cambodia’s GDP growth averaging 8.2 percent over the period 1994-2005. However, 
1
All figures for 2006 are projected. 
Page  2
Cambodia’s narrow growth base remains a concern. Recent and ongoing work—including the 
National Export Strategy, 2007–2010, the Small and Medium Enterprise Development 
Framework, 2005–2010, and the second phase of the Integrated Framework (IF) for trade—aim 
to tackle this challenge. The microfinance institution loan portfolio grew by about 40 percent to 
US$ 56.3 million in 2005 as compared with 2004, and credit to the private sector expanded by 29 
percent in 2005 and is projected to have risen a further 35 percent in 2006. An improved legal 
and regulatory framework for investment in 2005 has likely contributed to greater FDI. 
Estimated FDI inflows rose from US$ 121 million in 2004 to US$ 381 million in 2005, and are 
projected to have remained robust at US$ 394 in 2006. 
 
Economic growth over the last decade has raised living standards and reduced poverty 
headcounts. Analysis of trends in consumption and poverty in Cambodia is made complex by the 
limitations of the data. However, when comparing living standards within the same geographical 
frame in 2004 and 1993/4, average per capita household consumption is found to have risen 32% 
in real terms (to 2,932 riels per day in 2004). In Phnom Penh and other urban centers the rise has 
been considerably more dramatic.
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
PRSO-1, the first in a series of three annual operations, would selectively focus on the key 
reform areas of private sector development (PSD), public financial management (PFM), and land 
and natural resources management (LNRM). Of these areas public financial management and 
private sector development are the most advanced in terms of agreement on reform measures. 
These areas would provide the prior actions for PRSO-1 and the triggers for PRSO-2 and PRSO-
3. To help reduce the burden of multiple conditionalities, all of these prior actions are derived 
from either actions agreed at the 2006 CG meeting, or from sectoral strategy commitments 
agreed by the relevant technical working groups. 
The operation’s development objective is to support ‘second generation’ growth and poverty 
reduction based on an improving business climate, higher agricultural productivity, and more 
effective public service delivery. The PRSO will support the next phase of policy and 
institutional reform required to maintain growth and accelerate poverty reduction by facilitating 
trade and diversifying exports, guaranteeing land tenure and increasing access to land for the 
rural poor, and making the budget a credible management tool and reducing fiduciary risk to 
public funds. The PRSO program would support outcomes that are driven by policy measures 
and expenditure policy, both of which are supported by the development partner community as 
necessary for underpinning medium term growth and accelerating poverty reduction.
 
PRSO-1 
features 12 prior actions across private sector development, public financial management, and 
land resources management. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The principal purpose of the proposed Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) program 
(2007-2009) is to provide support for the implementation of the “good governance” reform 
program laid out in the Royal Government of Cambodia’s (RGC) National Strategic 
Development Plan (NSDP), 2006-2010. The NSDP is intended to operationalize the 
“Rectangular Strategy for Growth, Equity and Efficiency,” which was adopted by the new 
Page  3
Government in July 2004. The Rectangular Strategy placed “Good Governance” squarely at the 
heart of the reform agenda. The Country Assistance Strategy for Cambodia, endorsed by the 
Board in May 2005, follows the Rectangular Strategy by recognizing governance issues as the 
primary obstacle to growth, poverty reduction, and aid effectiveness in Cambodia. The Bank is 
uniquely placed to lead on moving to budget support given its role in the development partner 
community. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The Bank will provide between USD 15 and 20 million for the operation. Several other potential 
co-financiers are also very interested in supporting PRSO-1. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The beneficiary is the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC). PRSO-1 is a single tranche grant 
that will be disbursed upon effectiveness after the opening of a dedicated foreign currency 
reserve account at the National Bank of Cambodia. It is envisaged that there will be two further 
single-tranche PRSOs on a twelve to eighteen month basis, depending on the speed of the reform 
program. 
 
The RGC will be responsible for the overall implementation of the PRSO program. MEF 
coordinates with other ministries through the multi-ministerial Committee for Economic and 
Financial Policies (CEFP), and through bilateral meetings. MEF also prepares a regular report on 
PRSO progress. Bank supervision will focus on regular verification processes that monitor 
implementation of the policies being supported by the PRSO and the PFMRP. The Bank’s 
monitoring will be aligned with the government’s monitoring and evaluation of the NSDP, which 
will occur through the TWGs. The PSD, PFM, and Land TWGs are chaired by the Bank on 
behalf of the partner community, which allows for close supervision of PRSO actions and 
triggers. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The PRSO program (2007-2009) has three expected benefits: (1) higher rates of growth and 
poverty reduction based on an improving investment climate, higher agricultural productivity, 
and more effective public service delivery; (2) a reform dialogue with Government more focused 
on results; and, (3) improved harmonization and alignment of development partner policy 
positions and financial support. 
 
While there is strong ownership of the reform program at the MEF, there appears to be less 
commitment in some of the other agencies. Elections in 2008 raise the risk of a reform 
slowdown. Implementation of the reform program could also be delayed because of weak 
capacity of public institutions, especially at the sub-national level, which could impede the 
implementation of proposed reforms. Corruption in Cambodia, also a critical constraint, has 
exerted a negative impact on the implementation of the reform program. In a weak governance 
environment there is also a reputational risk of providing budget support. 
 
Page  4
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Trade facilitation and investment climate improvements are likely to spur growth primarily in 
Cambodia’s urban areas. The actions supported under the PRSO program will likely lead to 
increased private investment and higher and more diversified exports. As investment and exports 
expand, formal sector jobs will increase, especially in the traded sectors (e.g., through trade 
facilitation the reduction in informal fees would be passed on to labor in greater employment and 
higher wages). These reforms are needed to push Cambodia’s medium term growth above the 
projected 6 percent level. 
 
The PFM reform program is intended to mobilize higher resource levels and improve the 
management of public resources, both of which should result in a higher quantity and quality of 
pro-growth, pro-poor service delivery. Greater revenue will allow higher levels of expenditure in 
both the neglected economic sectors—transportation, agriculture, irrigation, and energy—as well 
as in the social sectors, which have benefited from significant increases in funding over the past 
years (Table 6). Improvements in PFM systems will also allow for more efficient and effective 
spending, generating higher rates of return on investment projects and greater impact in terms of 
the efficiency of service delivery. 
 
The PRSO program would support growth in rural areas through more secure property rights, 
provision of social land concessions to small-holders, and crop diversification. Agriculture 
remains central to the livelihoods of the great majority of Cambodians, and particularly poor 
Cambodians. In 2004, 91% of the poor lived in rural areas; 63% of poor households (and 51% of 
all households) reported agriculture as the occupation of the head of household. In the interests 
of poverty reduction it is thus critical that land, as the key productive asset in agricultural 
production, is managed equitably. Improved land resource management can be expected to 
exercise a strong positive influence on growth and the reduction of poverty via: (1) enhanced 
agricultural productivity arising from increased security of land tenure; (2) increased attention to 
public interest and developmental goals (equity, rural livelihoods, state revenue generation and 
environmental sustainability) in the management of state land assets; and (3) direct 
improvements in the welfare of poor households which are the beneficiary of equitable and 
efficiently-managed land distribution. 
The Task Team’s assessment is that the operation is not likely to have any significant 
environmental impacts, but that the operation would be supported by a Strategic Environmental 
Assessment in FY08. 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Robert R. Taliercio 
Title: Senior Country Economist 
Tel: (011) 855-23-217-304 
Fax: (011) 855-23-210-504 
Email: rtaliercio@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
Page  5
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
