z2M-O -$A fi,
RETURN  TO                   FLE                         RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK                             COPY                  Report No. PP-Za
WITHIN
-ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
POPULATION PROJECT
JAMAICA
June 2, 1970
Population Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit:                            = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Note:  The currency unit was officially
changed from the pound (L) to
the dollar (J$) in September,
1969. At the change-over the
Jamaican pound was officially
valued at J$ 2.0 or US$ 2.40.
The only currency units used
in the report are the following.
US 1.0 cent                                  J  0.83 cents
US$ 1.00                                   = J$ 0.833
US$ 1,000,000                              = J$ 833,333
J  1.0 cent                                = US  1.2 cents
J$ 1.00                                    = US$ 1.20
J$ 1,000,000                               = US$ 1,200,000
Abbreviations
EV     - Encouragement Visitor
FP     - Family Planning
JFPA   -  Jamaica Fanily Planning Association
KSAC   -  Kingston - St. Andrew Corporation Area
MCW    - Ministry of Communications and Works
NFPB   -  National Family Planning Board
RMC    - Rural Maternity Center
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
VJJH    - Victoria Jubilee Hospital
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
Population
2.0 million (1970)
Rate of natural increase: about 2.7%



JAMAICA
APPPAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i-i
I.     INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .     1
II.    SOCTAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . .    2
III.   JAMAICA'S POPULATION PROBLEM  . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
The Demographic Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
IV.    THE GOVERNMENT'S POPULATION CONTROL PROGRAM . . . . .    6
Organization of Family Planning Services  . . . . . .    6
Program Activities and Accomplishments  . . . . . . .    8
Present Maternity Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Finances   .  .   .   .  .   .  . .   .   .   .  .  .  . .  .  . .  .   13
Prospects for a Successful Population Program . . . .   14
V.     THE PROJECT . . .. *    * o o a  . * . . .  . . . .     16
Summary Description . . . . . . . . .          . .      16
Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
Project Facilities  . . . .............                 18
Project Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Design, Tendering, and procurement  . . . . . .  . .    23
Coordination and SuDervision  . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  24
Financing and Disbursements . . . . . . .    . . .      25
VI.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
VII.   RECOMENDATIONS .................. .                      30
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Jamaica from December 7 to 21, 1959.  The report was prepared by Messrs.
G. B. Baldwin, T. King, P. Oltmanns, and G. Zaidan. Mr. Baldwin re-visited
Kingston from March 16 to 19, 1970.



1. Population, Births and No. of Deliveries in Public Hospitals and
by District Midwives by Parishes, 196h-1968
2.  Anticipated crude birth rate 1966 - 1980
3. Table 1 - Service Statistics, National Family Planning Program by Month
for Period November 1968 through January 1970
Table 2 - Number of New Acceptors and Re-visits by Parish: Jan. - Dec. 1969
Table 3 - Parish Targets for New Acceptors: April 1969 - M4arch 1970
Table h - New Acceptors Classified by Number of Previous (a) Live Births
and (b) Pregnancies
Table 5 - Productivity of Clinics as Measured by New Acceptors Recorded
(January, 1970)
Table 6 - Number of New Acceptors by Method of Contraception Accepted
Table 7 - New Acceptors Classified by Source of Referral (1969)
4. Cost. Estimates
5. Victoria Jubilee Hospital: Recurrent Estimates Before and After the
Project
6.  Table 1 - Budget of the National Family Planning Board for the Fiscal
Year Ending March 31, 1970
Table 2 - Estimated Annual Recurrent Expenditure, National Family Planning
Board, April 1, 1971 - March 31, 1976
7. Location Data for Rural Maternity Centers
8. Note on Rural Maternity Centres
Table 1 - Rural Maternity Centres, Preliminary Cost Estimates
9. Tentative Project Timetable
10. Scheduling Study of Kingston Area Facilities (Draft Terms of Reference)
11. Proposed Terms of Reference for Study of Tasks Performed by Health Center
Personnel in Jamaica National Family Planning Program
12. Proposed Terms of Reference for Training Adviser to NFPB
13. Illustrative Terms of Reference for the Annual External Review
LAP



JAr4ICA
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) has adopted a national policy
of slowing down the growth of population. This policy is intended to
reduce the burden of chronic unemployment, to relieve the economy of the
costs of maintaining a high proportion of dependents, and to increase
long-run possibilities for raising per capita incomes. In pursuit of
these ends the Government has established a program of voluntary family
planning (FP) services supported by a mass-media educational campaign
and a system of personal recruitment intended to interest people in
becoming acceptors of family planning.
ii.       Somewhat paradoxically, the project consists primarily of the con-
struction of new maternity facilities. This is because the Jamaican FP
program relies primarily on the recruitment of women immediately after
childbirth: it therefore depends heavily on the provision of maternity
centers to which can be attached medical and other personnel trained to
offer women family planning information during their post-partum recovery
period.
iii.      Some US$ 2.0 million of the project costs are for expansion
and remodelling of the country's largest maternity hospital, the Victoria
Jubilee Hospital (VJH) in Kingston.  Over 20% of all births in the country
occur in this overcrowded building. Today this hospital has a normal
occupancy rate of over 100% despite the discharge of most patients less
than 24 hours after admission.  The second major component of the project
consists of the construction of the ten Pural Maternity Centers (RMC's)
at a total estimated cost of US$ 428,000. These are a new type of facility
for Jamaica; they are intended to provide delivery facilities for rural
women who traditionally deliver at home because they live too far from
one of the island's 12 Parish Hospitals.  In addition to its twro construc-
tion components, the project would include four technical assistance activi-
ties designed to improve the efficiency of the Government's overall program!
(1)  A study of the tasks now being performed by the medical
and para-medical personnel engaged in family planning
activities with a view to relieving highly-skilled groups
of routine functions thus increasing the productivity of
Jamaica's scarce doctors and nurses and reducing costs.
(2)  The provision of an experienced training adviser to help
the National Family Planning Board (NFPB) increase the
amount and effectiveness of training for personnel engaged
in family planning activities;



- ii -
(3)  A study of how to make the best use of health clinics and
of professional manpower offering family planning services in
the Kingston metropolitan area.
(4) The recruitment of a small team of outside experts to conduct
an annual review of the national program during each of the
next four years.
The four technical assistance components are estimated to cost approxinately
US$ 100,000. The results of these four activities should be of interest to
other countries in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Total project costs are
US$ 2.97 million including contingencies at 20%.
iv.       The Bank would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project
(US$ 1.6 million) plus interest and commitment charges during construction of
US$ 0.3 million. For loan purposes the total estimated foreign exchange re-
quirements of US$ 1.9 million have been rounded to US$ 2.0 million. All
other project costs would be financed by the Government of Jamaica, with the
possible exception of a small grant (approximately US$ 25,000) from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to fund the two
studies that form part of the technical assistance component.
v.        The Borrower would be the Government of Jamaica.  The loan would
not become effective until enactment by the Jamaican Parliament of a statute
establishing the National Family Planning Board on a permanent basis and
appointment by the Minister of Health of a Board and a Chief Executive
(para. 4.05).
vi.       Construction would be divided into two separate international
tenders, one consisting of the Victoria Jubilee Hospital, the other consisting
of the 10 EMC's on which contractors would be invited to bid either singly
or on a i'package"' basis.
vii.      The project would have important socio-economic benefits.  These
consist of improved maternal and child health, higher living standards for
families practicing family planning and for the population generally, savings
on the government budget, and an eventual contribution to reducing unemploy-
ment by limiting the growth of the potential labor force.
viii.     The proposed project covered by this appraisal report would be the
initial Bank/IDA operation for population control. although the Bank's money
will be used primarily for "bricks and mortar," the main significance of the
Bank's involvement is the catalytic role which the government hopes the
Bank can play in institution-building.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 2 million, carrying
a 20-year term inclusive of a five-year grace period.



JAMAICA
APPPAISPL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank economic mission visited Jamaica in May/June, 1968; it
found that considerable improvement was needed if the country's newly-
established family planning (FP) program was to become effective. The
matter was discussed with the Minister of Finance during the Bank's Annual
Meeting in September, 1968. In December, the Government requested the Bank
to organize a mission that would review the family planning program and
make suggestions for improving it. fi five-man Review Miission visited
Jamaica from January 26 to February 22, 1969; it was led by Mr. S. M. Keeny
of the Population Council and included Dr. K. Kanagaratnam (then Chairman
of Singapore's National Family ;lanning Board), Dr. S. Khanna (Pan American
Health Organization), and Messrs. S. Kuriyama and G. Zaidan of the Bank's
staff.
1.02      The Review Mission's recommendations included the preliminary
identification of a possible Bank project, comprising among other things,
the expansion of the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH), the country's largest
maternity hospital, and the establishment of a new kind of h to 12 bed
maternity home in the remote rural areas.  Subsequent discussions with
the Bank defined the project more precisely. The appraisal mission of
December, 1969 resulted in additional modifications of the original pro-
posals, mainly in the direction of eliminating a number of very small
components and of adding certain technical assistance elements designed
to increase the overall effectiveness of the Government's program.
1.03      The appraisal mission was headed by Mr. G. B. Baldwin (economist)
and included lMessrs. T. King (economist), P. Oltmanns (architect), and
M. Nilo, Jr. (consultant architect). The Director of the Population Projects
Department, Mr. K. Kanagaratnam, visited Kingston briefly during the mission.
Mr. A. J. Davar, the Loan Officer for Jamaica, was present for much of the
mission's stay and participated in many of the meetings. Mr. Baldwin re-
visited Kingston in March, 1970.



- 2 -
1I.  SOCIAL AND ECONOMC BACKGROUND
2.01      Jamaica is a densely populated tropical island in the Caribbean
with an area of 4,400 square miles and a population of 2.0 million. Economic
growth in recent years has been rapid. In the last decade real GDP has
grown at a rate of over 5% per annum, the main thrust being provided by
the bauxite, manufacturing, and tourism sectors. Per capita income is just
over US$ 500, higher than in most countries of Latin America and the Caribbear.
Income distribution, however, is very unequal: there is high unemployment,
estimated at 15-20% of the labor force, and a large proportion of the agri-
cultural production is accounted for by poor smallholders.
2.02      Jamaica became an independent nation within the British Common-
wealth in August, 1962. It has been politically stable with the two major
political parties, the Jamaica Labor Party (JLP) and the People's National
Party (PNP), contesting for power through orderly elections. The JLP has
been in power since 1962; the next elections are due in 1972.
2.03      The population of Jamaica is predominantly of African descent
but also has some Indian, Chinese and European components. Discovered
by Columbus in 1494 and first settled by the Spanish, Jamaica came under
British rule in 1655 and was developed as a major source of sugar and rum.
The aboriginal Arawak Indians having proved unsuitable as plantation labor,
large numbers of workers were Drought in from Africa. After the abolition
of slavery in 1838, there was an exodus of workers from the sugar planta-
tions to the hills of the interior. Their descendants constitute the over-
whelming majority of agricultural smallholders, still the largest segment
of the population. They live in the tradition of a maternally-oriented
society, with the women often carrying the economic burden of child-rearing.
This is partly the result of the parental relationships customary in the
culture: most are common-law marriages or less pennanent "visiting relation-
ships," with only a small proportion of legal marriages. About 70% of all
children are born outside legal wedlock.
2.04      The rate of natural increase of population in Jamaica has been
high in recent years, averaging over 3% per annum from 1960 through 1967.
Although this has been tempered somewhat by emigration, the economic burden
of this increase is high, particularly in the light of already substantial
numbers of unemployed and the limited availability of arable land. The
anticipated exhaustion within the next 40 to 50 years of bauxite reserves,
the island's foremost foreign exchange earner, emphasizes the desirability
of slowing down the rate of population growth.
2.05      Population pressure in the rural areas, together with the lack
of rural employment opportunities, has intensified migration to the urban
centers. By 1966 the metropolitan area of Kingston and St. Andrew, con-
taining 4% of the land area, contained 30% of the country's population.
The high rate of natural increase, and the young age structure, place a



- 3 -
heavy strain on Government expenditures on education, health, and housing.
Slowing population growth through emigration gives little or no relief to
educational budgets, since most emigration occurs after the school-leaving
age. On the other hand, reductions in fertility rates would release funds
for improving the quality of education and upgrading the skills of the labor
force. In the face of the country's limited endowment of natural resources
and the heavy budgetary pressure of a young and rapidly growing population,
the Government has made a reduction in the birth rate an explicit goal of
national policy.



- 4 -
III. JAMAICA'S POPUDLTION PROBLEM
The Demographic Situation
3.01      The population picture is similar to that found in many developing
countries, i.e. a pronounced rise in the rate of natural increase resulting
from a fall in mortality rates without any significant fall in the birth
rate until very recently. Conspicuous declines in mortality began in the
1920's and, as the table below shows, have continued since World War II.
These declines have occurred more than twice as fast as they did, histori-
cally, in many European countries. Present mortality rates in Jamaica are
low by world standards and no further dramatic declines in the overall
rate can be expected.
Recent Population Trends 1943-68
(1)     (2)        (3)         (4)             (5)            (6)
Birth   Death    Rate of                     End of         Growth
rate    rate     natural      Net emi-       year pop-      rate of
(per    (per     increase    gration         ulation        population
C00)    COO)    ((l)-(2))    (in OOO's)    (in COO's)    (% per year)
1943     31.8    14.5       17.3            -            1,237
1954     34.7    10.9       23.8            -            1,531           2.0
1960     42.1      8.8      33.3          40.4           1,639
1961     40.0      8.6      31.h          38.5           1,652          0.8
1962     39.1      8.5      30.6          28.7           1,676          1.5
1963     39.0      8.9      30.1           7.3           1,720          2.6
196h     39.2      7.7      31.6          13.5           1,762           2.4
1965     39.0      7.9      31.1           6.5           15811          2.8
1966     38.85    7.8       31.05          8.9           1,859          2.7
1967     35.94    7.1       28.8          20.0           1,893          1.8
1968     34.2      7.6      26.6          20.0*          1,923          1.6
*Preliminary estimate.
3.02      A declining fertility trend appeared to set in about 1960.  Taking
the 1960-68 period as a whole, with a crude birth rate of 38 per 1,000 and
a crude death rate of 8 per 1,000, the annual rate of natural increase was
3.0%; this ratio, if continued, would result in a doubling of the popula-
tion within 24 years and a total population of nearly 5 million by the year
2000. This is the underlying arithmetic of the Government's decision to
adopt a population policy. In actual fact, population growth has been
kept under 3% by fairly substantial net emigration, most of it to Britain
and the United ntates. Emigration, however, has been erratic, mainly
because of changes in immigration policy in the main receiving countries.



The Government's Perspective Plan (1968-1988) assumes continuing net emigra-
tion at 15,000 p.a.; but officials have felt that emigration alone could
not be counted on to provide sufficient relief from the underlying demo-
graphic situation.
3.03      The spread of family planning practices will be one of the key
factors governing fertility and the rate of population growth in the future.
Other factors are the number of women in the child-bearing ages (itself
affected by ernigration patterns), shifts in family arrangements (increases
in the proportion of marriages as compared with Visiting Relationships
would tend to raise fertility), and family-size goals as influenced by
economic and sociological forces. These underlying influences prevent one
from assuming that there will be an immediate reduction in the birth rate
as a result of introducing family planning; over a period of several years,
however, the birth rate will almost certainly faUl. All one can say with
certainty about short-nm effects is that an effective FP program will lead
to a birth rate lower than it would otherwise have been.
3.04      The National Family Planning Board (MFPB), which is responsible
for carrying out the Government's policy, hopes that by 1975 the birth rate
can be reduced fron the rate of about 35/1,000 when the national program
started in 1968 to around 25/1,000. This would almost repeat the experi-
ence of another Caribbean country, Barbados, which has had an active Govern-
ment-assisted FP program during the past decade.
3.05      Experience in Barbados suggests that if about one-third of the
females in childbearing age use birth control, marked reductions in fertility
can be achieved. The NFPB program aims at 20,000 new users each year. Over
a five-year period this should result in at least one-fourth of all women
of childbearing age adopting family planning; added to pre-existing acceptors,
the total proportion would approach the one-third figure cited from Barbados.
At the rate of acceptance assumed by the NFPB, a "saving" of 8,000 to 10,000
births may be attained over the first five years of the program. Such a
development would bring the birth rate down to the low 30's by the early
1970's and, with increasing momentum, to the target figure of 25/1,000 by
1975.



- 6 -
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S POPULATION CONTROL PROGRAM
Organization of Family Planning Services
4.ol      The Government of Jamaica has been one of the first in the Western
Hemisphere to adopt a policy of slowing down the growth of its population.
The official Jamaican effort began in 1964 when the Government first offered
family planning services at public hospitals. Private voluntary organiza-
tions, however, had been active ever since 1939. In 1964, these groups
had merged into a single organization, the Jamaica Family Planning Associa-
tion (JFPA), still very active. The JFPA operated with private funds and
served the private needs of clients within reach of its two clinics, one
in Kingston, one on the north coast. In 1966, the Government established
a Family Planning Unit in the Ministry of Health to coordinate planning
efforts. In September, 1967 this Unit was replaced by the National Family
Planning Board (NFPB), the present instrument for carrying out the Govern-
ment's policy.
4.02      The NFPBl/ is a semi-autonomous body appointed by and broadly
responsible to the Minister of Health. The Board was established by the
Minister under interim legal arrangements intended to be followed by enact-
ment of a permanent statute. The Bank originally expressed the view that
the usual commercial reasons for establishing semi-autonomous bodies did
not seem sufficiently strong to justify the use of this arrangement for
a family planning program. Subsequently, the Bank accepted the Govern-
ment's preferred arrangement, provided only that the powers and responsi-
bilities of the agency, and its relation to the Ministry of Health and to
the voluntary agencies, should be appropriate and clear.
4.03      In its first two years, the Board has operated much more as a
detached department of the Ministry of Health than as an independent
statutory body. Although the Director of the Board is identified with
the opposition party, the relations between the NFPB and the Ministry have
been satisfactory. A close working relationship between the Board and
the Ministry is essential since the Board relies heavily on the use of
Ministry buildings and staff to carry out its program. No significant
change in the Board's relation to the Ministry is expected when its
establishment is made permanent by enactment of a statute (see para. 4.05).
4.04      The first two years' experience with the Board arrangement has
revealed problems of representation on the Board, of the Director's rela-
tionship to the Board, and of the NFPB' s relationship to the private
JFPA. The latter organization has made outstanding contributions to
1/  The NFPB refers both to the nine-member Board itself, a policy-
making group of professional and business leaders who meet every 2-3
months to set policy and approve plans and budgets, and to the full-
time administrative staff of over 60 employees who carry out the progra:n
from the Board headquarters in Kingston.



- 7 -
family planning education and clinical practice and includes among its
leading members some of the most prominent names in the field. The com-
mingling of JFPA and IFPB interests which has taken the form of excessive
JFPA representation on the NFPB Board, has affected program planning and
execution. The clarification of these relationships is essential to the
strengthening of the NFPB's program. Two steps need to be taken immediately.
One is to reduce the number of persons identified with the JFPA on the NFPB
Board and to replace them with governmental representatives; the second is
to transfer direct responsibility for the Encouragement Visitor program
from the JFPA to the NFPB (see para. 4.16).
4.o5      The enactment of a statute giving the NFPB a permanent and clear
legal foundation is essential to the future of the program. The key points
at issue have been the membership of the Board and the concept of the NTPB's
chief executive officer and his relationship to the Board. The Board it-
self needs wider representation of government interests. At the administra-
tive level, the NIFPB requires direction by an individual who is primarily
an effective administrator (whether or not he is also a doctor) and who
will be a member of the Board, perhaps serving as its chairman. Draft legis-
lation satisfactory to the Bank covering these points was agreed during
negotiations. Enactment of this legislation and appointment of the new
Board and of a chief executive officer mutually acceptable to both the
goverrmient and the Bank.
4.o6      In executing its program, the Board operates through the
professional staff of the Hlinistry of Health and uses, on a part-time
basis, the Ministry's extensive network of health centers, plus selected
hospitals, spread over the island. The NFPB prepares its own long-range
program, which need not be approved by the Tinister of Health, and its own
annual budget; the latter is included in the Yinistry's overall submission
to the Mlinistry of Finance. Except for minor iterms of office equipment
and a few vehicles owned by the Board, the facilities and equipment it
uses are owned by the Ministry of Health and are financed from the Ministry's
capital budget. The Board employs its own headquarters staff directly;
these are government employees but they are not considered employees of
the Ministlr of Health.  The Board maintains its own accounts separate
from the Ministry's funds, may purchase its own equipment and supplies,
is authorized to make its own disbursements, and is subject to annual
financial audit by the government's Auditor General.



- 8-
Program Activities and Accomplishments
4.07      WShen the Minister of Health established the NFPB in September
1967 he directed it to prepare a progran of objectives and operations for
the next three to five years. The Board's three-year program (1968-1971)
was published in June, 1968. Its five main objectives are (i) to organize
an educational campaign to interest people in family planning, (ii) to
increase clinical facilities sufficiently to make available FP services
throughout the island, (iii) to train clinic staff in family planning
operations, (iv) to organize as part of the program measures for the early
detection and treatment of uterine cancer, and (v) to maintain close contact
with world developments in the field of family planning.  The Board was
able to make its senior staff appointments and to mount a national program
relatively quickly and without more than normal start-up difficulties.
4.08      The NFPB program has so far been aimed almost exclusively at
women. It requires a combination of activities to educate, motivate, and
to give technical advice and service to the island's female population.
It is natural, therefore, that the FP program should be closely linked to
the general structure of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) services, including
the facilities and staffs engaged in antenatal, obstetrical, post-partum,
and post-natal care. The close link between FP activities and these general
health services associated with pregnancy, birth, and post-partum recovery
underlies the Bank project.
4.09      In addition to its central rmaternity-focused program for motivating
and recruiting new acceptors, the Board (1) has successfully arranged for
greatly-expanded coverage of family planning material in the professional
curriculum of all medical personnel, (2) has tried (so far without much
success) to arrange for the preparation of family planning material by the
Ministry of Education for use in the general school curriculum, (3) has
launched a mass-media program based mainly on billboard and poster advertise-
ments, and (4) has tried to develop a network of face-to-face recruitment
workers ("Encouragement Visitors," or EV's), and (5) has developed a testing
service for cervical cancer for all women who wish it. This test serves
to attract women to FP clinics, to identify women for whom neither the pill
nor the TUD should be recommended, and as a general health measure independent
of FP considerations.
4.10      The ITFP3 program depends heavily, although not exclusively, on
motivating and educating women during the post-partum period. This explains
why the Bank is financing an expansion and modernization of the largest
maternity hospital in the country, the Victoria Jubilee Hospital in Kingston,
and the establishment of Rural Maternity Centers for women who live too far
from a parish hospital. The task of motivating and educating women during
their post-partuin recovery is shared by all redical and para-medical personnel
employed at maternity facilities (i.e., doctors, nurses, and midwives) and
by specially-trained Family Planning Education Officers (FPEO's). (This
latter class of NFPB employee spend most of their time in general FP educa-
tion activities outside maternity facilities; but they play an occasional
role in post-partum education, especially at the VJH.) For these reasons



- 9 -
it is important that all health personnel involved in maternity care have
training that will give them a general understanding of family planning
from the viewpoint of government and personal objectives, as well as techni-
cal FP training appropriate to their specific functions. The NFPB is
responsible for seeing that these two types of training are provided; the
Bank project will assist it in this function.
4.il      Much FP education, and nearly all service activities, are performed
in the network of 143 health centers (or clinics) operated by the Ministry
of Health throughout the island. These clinics are reserved exclusively
for FP use by the NFPB on regular schedules of one, two, or four half-days
a month. Each such half-day use is called a "session." The typical session
is manned by a four-man team consisting of a doctor, a trained nurse, a
midwife, and a records' clerk. The medical members of the team are normally
but not necessarily I1inistry of Health employees (midwives are normally
employed by the local parish councils).  The NFPB pays sessional fees,
constituting extra income to all staff serving on the family planning teams
at health centers and hospitals; these fees are uniform throughout the
country.
4.12      Thuring the Drogram's first four years, the Ministry and later the
Board have been successful in rapidly expanding the number of clinics offering
FP services. starting with 25 clinics in 1966 the number doubled in 1967,
nearly doubled again in 1968, and by December 1969 there were 135 clinics in
operation. This rapid build-up of facilities has been achieved partly
through the Ministry's construction of new health centers and partly through
the renting of space wherever it could be found. The Board's 1958 target
was to reach 150 clinics by 1971; this goal is now expected to be reached
a year earlier. The following table shows the number of clinics in the
metropolitan Kingston area and in the remainder of the island, plus the fre-
quency of clinic sessions (at December, 1969):
Number of clinics (graded by frequency of sessions)
Grade I     Grade II     Grade III
1 per wk.   2 per mo.     1 per mo.       Total
Kingston-St. Andrew              25*          8             1            34
Rural parishes                   22          52            27           101
Total                      47           60           28            135
* are open every day
The main problem in covering the island with a network of services has not
been a shortage of physical quarters, equipment, or funds; the main problem
has been staff, reflecting the national shortage of doctors and trained
nurses.



- 10 -
4.13      In the 15 months from November, 1968 through January, 1970 the
Board has averaged slightly more than 2,000 new acceptors each month (Annex 3,
Table 1). The gross figure of 35,000 new acceptors (i.e., without allowing
for dropouts) represents about 10  of all women in the child-bearing ages,
estimated for Jamaica at about 1/6th of total population.  The Board set
new-acceptor targets for each parish for its fiscal year of April 1, 1969
to March 31, 1970:  by December 31 two parishes had already exceeded their
annual targets and it appears likely that almost all others would have reacheci
theirs before the year-end (Annex 3, Table 3). Targets that are uniformly
exceeded are doubtless too low, and the Board's single year of statistics
does ntpxvvide sufficient experience for setting targets with much confi-
dence. There was a slight decline in the monthly recruitment of new acceptors
as 1969 progressed; this may well reflect the forced suspension of the EV
program by the JFPA in mid-year as a result of misunderstandings and dis-
agreements between the I4inistry of Health and the JFPA on the conduct of
the EV program. There have been some attempts to evaluate the relative
effectiveness of different sources of referral of new acceptors (see Annex 3,
Table 7), but it is still too early in the Board's experience to draw firm
conclusions.
4.14      The number of new acceptors added each month cannot be summed
to arrive at a figure for the number of women practicing contraception.
The dropout rate in all family planning programs is large; Asian figures
suggest that only 50% of new post-partum acceptors continue as practitioners
by the end of their first year following the -period of post-partum infertility
and that this figure declines to 30%, 20% and 10$ by the end of the 2nd,
3rd, and 4th years. This experience means that any program must give major
attention to keeping in touch with new acceptors in the hope of minimizing
dropouts by keeping them motivated and supplied and of re-recruiting those
who have discontinued. Despite the dropout rate, many births are prevented
before discontinuation occurs so that the "new acceptor" figure is a key
one in judging the effectiveness of the program. The figures on "re-visits
and "missed visits" (Annex 3, Table 1) provide a rough indication of how
successfully the program is retaining participation by past acceptors.
4.15      There appears to be a wide range in the effectiveness of different
clinics. No annual figures are available but Annex 3, Table 5 groups clinics
by the number of new acceptors registered during the month of January, 1970.
Five clinics generated one-third of all new acceptors in the country and
11 clinics generated half the total. At the other end of the scale, 52
clinics (nearly hu0  of the total) were able to recruit only 9 acceptors or
fewer; 26 of these signed up 4 or fewer. The tXFPB must soon begin to
examine the cost-effectiveness of individual clinics and of alternative
means of providing service to target populations now being covered at
high cost. The Board is currently establlishing individual cost accounts
for each clinic. The Kingston clinic scheduling study and the provision
for an annual External Review are intended to help the Board become con-
structively self-critical (see paras. 5.21 and 5.24).



4.16      One major factor that has proven essential to the effectiveness of
FP in many countries is a system of personal recruitment and follow-up.  In
Jamaica the staff performing these functions are called Encouragement Visitors
(EV's). During its first two years the NFPB contracted out to the JFPA the
task of recruiting, training, deploying, and supervising a staff of 120 EV's.
The Minister of Health, the Bank, and others have felt that this arrange-
ment was unsatisfactory. There has been doubt about the qualifications of
many of the EV's, lack of coordination between their deployment and the
operation of NFPB clinics, and insufficient attention to this part of their
program by the Board. The M1inister of Health has therefore taken steps to
have this program transferred from the JFPA to the NFPB. Plans to accomplish
this by April 1, 1970, were tentative and unclear. The definition of a
revised FV program, to be operated directly by the NFPB, should be a first
order of business of the Board and its chief executive immediately after
their appointment after enactment of the new statute (para. 4.05). During
negotiations it was agreed that the Board would submit a revised EV program
for Bank approval no later than November 1, 1970, and would implement the
approved program by December 31, 1970.
Present Maternity Facilities
4.17      Between 65,ooo and 70,000 babies are born in Jamaica every year.
The proportion of women delivering in hospitals has increased steadily in
recent years, reaching 405 in 1968. Of the 26,000 hospital deliveries
about 15,000 (nearly 60%) occur in the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH), the
only government maternity hospital in the metropolitan area and the key
element in the Bank project. Plthough it is adjacent to and a component
part of the Kingston General Hospital, the VJH has its own Medical Director,
its own professional and non-professional staff, and its own budget (see
Annex 5).
4.i8      The prestige of the VJH awong the lower classes is great.  The
VJH regularly delivers 20-25%a of all births in the country and two-thirds
of all births in the Kingston metropolitan area. The demands on its serv-
ices have outgrown the building's capacity, resulting in serious overcrowding
for both patients and staff. This condition seriously interferes with the
provision of FP activities at the hospital, the key facility in the NFPB's
post-partum nrogram.  An experimental 10-bed neighborhood maternity center
which opened in mid-1969 at Tivoli Gardens has k.ept only four of its beds
occupied, on average; the traditional reliance on the VJE among Kingston women
is believed to explain this slow start. There is a charge of J$ 6.30 which
women are expected to pay early in their preg"ancy at the time when they are
receiving antenatal care in the hospital's antenatal clinic (they also pay 20
cents per clinic visit); however, many women are unable or unwilling to pay
until late in their pregnancies, although most of them do so at that time.



- 12 -
The hospital never turns anyone away for inability to pay or for any other
reason; many women who have not been attending the hospital's clinic turn
up at the hospital unannounced but in labor.
4.19      At present the hospital is able to meet the demands put on it
only by (a) discharging women as rapidly as possible and (b) putting two
women to a bed when no empty ones are available. The average period from
admission to discharge is about 1-2/3 days, about one-third are discharged
within 24 hours of admission; fewer than one-fifth remain 72 hours or
longer. It is common to have 210-220 women occupying the hospital's 165
beds. This condition is continuous throughout the year as there is no
seasonal pattern of deliveries at the hospital. The Bank project will
approximately double the number of beds at this key hospital. This expan-
sion is not needed to accommodate an expected increase in the number of
women presenting themselves for delivery (the demand is expected to remain
at approximately its present level of 15,000); the expansion is needed to
achieve a standard of one bed/one woman and to permit each woman to remain
3 to 4 days instead of 1 to 2. The extension of stay will permit a much
more effective FP program at the hospital.
4,.20     From a family planning point of view, the most serious result
of overcrowding is the enforced discharge of patients without adequate
opportunity to educate them about family planning and to tell them about
the availability of services in the communities to which they will return.
During the second half of 1969 the NFPB did assign to the VJH a five-man
team that has managed to talk briefly with a majority of the women before
discharge. The team has its only "office" and consulting room in a heavily-
used basement corridor. There is no room for private talks with women nor
for film or slide showings, lectures, or demonstrations.
4.21      Overcrowding also affects the hospital's rnidwifery training
program. Two training courses are offered, one for up-grading public health
nurses by giving them specialist training in midwifery, the other for trainirg
women who will work as midwives either in hospital or domiciliary practice.
At present both these courses are conducted in an old house opposite the
hospital under conditions of severe overcrowding in both lecture and demonstra-
tion rooms. The Banlk project will provide modest but greatly improved quarters
for the hospital's midwifery training program.
4.22      In the country at large 60% of all births occur at home.  Outside
the urbanized Kingston - St. Andrew Corporation (KSAC) area three-quarters
of all births occur at home. This is not so much a matter of preference
as of the availability of maternity facilities which women can hope to reach
when labor-starts.  Some rural women are close enough to the parish hospital
to use it; many are not and have no choice but to deliver at home. Each
of the island's 12 rural parishes (i.e. all units of local Government out-
side the KSAC area) provide midwifery services for home deliveries; however,
two-thirds of all home deliveries are attended not by the trained district
midwives but by a class of private, untrained, village women called "nanas "
Both the Government midwives and the nanas charge similar fees of around JA ;



- 13 -
the dominance of rural home deliveries by the nanas primarily reflects the
difficulties of communications and transport  between midwives' homes and
rural villages and the increasing reluctance of midwives to make night
calls in lonely areas from which they may have to return unaccompanied.
These administrative considerations re-enforce the Ministry of Health's
medical preference for institutional over domiciliary midwifery.
t.23      Senior medical personnel in the Ministry of Health and elsewhere
in Jamaica strongly favor delivery in attended maternity facilities when-
ever feasible.  They also believe that a large number of Jamaican women
would prefer non-home delivery if given this choice. The 10 Rural Maternity
Centers (RMC's) that are part of the Bank project will make it possible,
for the first time, for many rural women to have their babies outside their
homes if they wish to do so. The BMC will be a new institution for Jamaica
and there cannot be certainty about the strength of demand for their use.
Experience with similar facilities in other countries is limited to local
facilities in a few, countries.  Despite this uncertainty, the Ministry
and the flFPB3, as wqell as the Bank, believe that this innovation can provide
a highly effective means of access to rural women for FP purposes as well
as providing much-improved conditions for delivering babies and a more
efficient way of using midwives. (See Annex 8).
Finances
4.24      In its first two fiscal years (ending March 31, 1970) the Board
operated with total budgets of almost exactly J$ 4OO,OCO and J$ 500,000.
The Board's FY 1970 budget is equal to 3.5% of the total budget of the
Ministry of Health.  The FY 1971 budget is expected to be around J$ 600,000.
The Board has made rough projections of its budgets through 1975/76 when
it expects to spend J$ 915,000. The basis for the projections to 1975/76
is not clear and cannot be given much weight (see Annex 6, Table 2).
4.25      The following table summarizes the NFPW3s budget for fiscal 1970
ending March 31 (fuller details are shown in Annex 6):
J$ 000's             %
Headquarters' salaries                  70.8               15.7
Transportation & subsistence            25.                 5.1
Sessional fees                         108.9               21.7
Education & promotion                  101.9               20.3
Supplies (contraception)                4i2.0*              8.4
Subsidies (private agencies)            30.0                6.o
Cytology                                22.6                h.5
Misc. items under 15.0 each             92.2               18.3
502.8             100.0
*Excluding USAID-financed supplies of approximately J$ 125,000.



- 14 -
Sessional fees and expenditures for education and pronotion are the two
largest items in NFPB's budgetj it follows that evaluation of the cost-
effectiveness of the clinic network, the staffing patterns used, and the
work of the Board's Family Planning Health Education Officers deserve
special attention. The two studies proposed as part of the project
(paras. 5.21 and 5.22) will help the Board start studying the first two of
these problems. The Board's Health Education Officers constitute a specialized
group that parallels the general Health Education Officers in the Ministry
of Health. IJhile their work can probably be justified in the initial years
of the program, the need for the continuation of this rather expensive
separate group should be reviewed by the Board and by the first External
Review team (see para. 5.24).
4.26      An immediate decision that will have major budgetary implications
is the resolution of the role to be played by Encouragement Visitors (see
para. 4.16). If, for example, the Board took over the 120 EV's which had
been on JFPA's payroll early in 1969, and paid them at J$ 25 per week, this
would immediately increase its budget by about 30%. The Bank believes that
for the next year, at least, the Board should not employ more than 50 EV's
and should gain experience in their use before making commitments for scaling
up the program. The EV's snould initially be used for service outside the
KSAC area, where other recruitment methods seem feasible at much lower cost.
4.27      The semi-autonomous status of the Board has not led it to adopt
salaries and emoluments that are significantly higher than those of regular
Ministry personnel. The M4inistry's control over the Board's budget is
likely to prevent the latter from developing a preferential salary structure,
which it does not need and which would only be a source of friction between
the Board and other Government bodies.
4.28      The Board is receiving rmajor financial assistance from the United
States Agency for International Development. USAID is providing, on a grant
basis, about US$ 150,000 of contraceptive supplies annually; this represents
about 75% of the Board's supply requirements and 25% of its total budget,
No external aid is being received from any other foreign source, official
or private. USAID is expected to continue this assistance for the fore-
seeable future. TJSAID has also provided technical assistance to the Board
in the fields of health education and administration (the latter on a short-
term basis only).
Prospects for a Successful Population Program
4.29      There are strong general reasons for believing that a National
Family Planning Program will be successful in Jamaica.  The adootion of
family planning as Government policy has been supported by both major
political parties; the Program has not become involved in partisan politics.
There is no significant religious or cultural opposition to such a policy.
The Government's commitment to the policy is based as much on a conviction
of the Program's contribution to raising per capita incomes and to minimizing
pressure on the budget as it is on grounds of health and social welfare.



- 15 -
The Government appears determined to give the Program adequate funding.
The medical professions strongly support the Program and have become closely
identified with it. Literacy is high (over 60%), distances are short, the
medical and public health services already cover the island fairly well,
and cormunications are relatively easy. The country has had over 30 years'
experience with private family planning services, although these have
reached only a small part of the population. The Government Program, begun
in 1967, has made a promising start. It has not suffered any serious
embarrassments or setbacks as a result of the few criticisms which have
occasionally been voiced.
4.30      There are also specific cultural and demographic reasons for
confidence that a well-run family planning program would succeed in Jamaica:
(a) Women appear to want fewer children. As an example, in a
survey on fertility conducted as early as 1953, 1,400 women
from the lowest socio-economic groups were interviewed. This
survey showed that their desired family size was no larger
than that found in many developed countries. This finding
was contrary to the widespread belief that poorer Jamaican
women were strongly motivated to have a large number of
children.
(b) Women can be reached relatively easily. About 30% of all
births occur in 22 public hospitals, and the Victoria Jubilee
Hospital in Kingston alone accounts for nearly 20% of all
Jamaican births. Another 26% of all deliveries are made with
the help of about 300 District Midwives.  Thus well over one-
half of the women bearing children in any one year (or about
35,000 women per year) can be reached with relatively little
effort and can be educated on the advantages and methods of
family limitation.
(c) Recent demographic trends are encouraging. The decline in
fertility of the last three years began largely independent
of conscious Government efforts. This is an indication of
a general disire of the population to limit their fertility.
Most family planning programs that have been successful have
accelerated a decline in the birth rate which had already
started.
(d) The present death rate of just under 8/1,000 is already low
and cannot decline without large improvements in health
conditions. This means that reductions in the birth rate
will not be offset by reductions in the death rate.
(e) Two other ex-British Islands of the Caribbean, i.e. Barbados
and Trinidad and Tobago, have had somewhat longer experience
with national FP programs than Jamaica.  Broad cultural similari-
ties justify the hope that the acceptability of FP programs
in those countries will be repeated in Jamaica.



- 16 -
V. THE PPOJECT
Summary Description
5.01      The project consists of both construction and technical assistance
elements designed to extend and improve the government's national family
planning program. Project funds will be devoted primarily to the construc-
tion of key maternity facilities to provide expanded opportunities for
educating and motivating women during their post-partum recovery period when
they have high receptivity to FP information. Family planning activities in
the project facilities Will be part of a complex set of FP activities through-
out the island. The Bank's primary interest is in helping the government
develop an effective and economical national program. Therefore, the project
also contains four technical assistance elements which, while small in anount,
will have an important impact on the success of the national program.
5.02      The project provides for the design, construction, and equipment
of two types of facilities, both of which will provide expanded opportunities
for FP education-
(a) A new 175-bed wing at the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH)
in Kingston and the remodelling of parts of the present
old structure.  This building will also contain space for
the hospital's midwifery school. The expanded and remodelled
hospital will have a capacity of 332 beds as compared with
165 at present.
(b) Ten Rural Maternity Centers (RMC's) at strategic locations
across the island, each with a capacity of b. to 8 beds.
5.03      The project also contains the following four technical assistance
elements:
(a) a 3-6 month study of possibilities for rearranging some
of the present functions performed by doctors, nurses,
auxiliary nurses, and clerks to relieve pressure on the
time of the more highly-trained people, who are in short
supply (para. 5.22).
(b)  a study of the service-delivery system in the Kingston-
St. Andrew Corporation (KSAC) area to see how to make the
best use of professional staff and physical facilities
(para. 5.21).
(c)  the provision of a Training Adviser, if needed, to help the F   B
in planning and mounting an expanded training effort
(para. 5.23).
(d) An annual review by a small external team of the progress
of the Program during the disbursement period (para. 5.24).



- 17 -
Cost Estimates
5.04      Total project cost is estimated at US$ 3.0 million; approximately
75% of this will be spent on the VJH, 20% on the 10 WMC's, and 5% on technical
assistance. The major components are listed in the following table (see
Annex h for details):
J$ 000s                    U,$ 000's
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign    Total
I.  CONSTPUCTION COSTS
Victoria Jubilee
Hospital          699.1      926.2  i,625.3    838.9   1,113.4    1,952.3
Rural M4aternity
Centers           221.0      136.0    357.0    265.2      163.2      42B.
Total Construction
Cost              920.1   1,062.2  1,982.3  l,10.l   1,276.6    2,380.7
II.  STUDIES & TECHNITCAL
A7SSISTPNCE        30.0       50.0     80.0     36.0       60.0       96.0
III.  CONTINGENCIES (20%) 190.0      222.4   412.4    228.0       257.3      495.3
Total Project
Cost            1,14h.1   1,333.5  2,474.7  1,368.1   1,603.9    2,972.0
IV.  INTEFFqT AND
COINITNISrIT
CH'PGES DUPING
CON7TFUCTION       -         250.0     -        _         300.0       _
Total Foreign
Exchange NIeeds    -       1,58h.6     -        -       1,903.9       -
The estimates for the VJH have been worked out in collaboration with archi-
tects in the i'inistry of Communications and Works. Costs per square foot
are in line wyith recent costs for comparable construction in the country.
Furniture and equipment costs are based on suppliers' lists and recent
quotations. Professional fees have been agreed in principle by all parties
concerned. Technical assistance costs are estimates of Bank staff. The
contingency item includes provision for both technical changes and price
escalation in equal proportions. Inflation of both domestic and foreign
costs is assumed at a weighted average rate of 5% p.a.; since not all costs
will be burdened with four years' escalation, an overall price allowance
of 10%f is considered reasonable.



- 18 -
5.05     The Bank loan would finance the project's total foreign exchange
costs of US$ 1.6 million plus the estimated US$ 0.3 million of interest and
commitment charges during construction. The loan amount has been rounded
up to US$ 2.0 million.
ProJect Facilities
5.o6     The Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH) will be expanded to twice its
present bed-capacity by constructing a new six-story wing on land opposite
the existing building (the "old wing") and by remodelling the latter. The
two wings will be joined by a linking bridge across the present hospital-owned
road that will runbetween the two wings, The land on which the new wing will
be built is already owned by the hospital; two old structures now on the
property are about to be demolished to make room for the new VJH wing and for
a new internes' residence for the parent Kingston General Hospital. There is
enough land to accommodate both the new wing and the internes' residence,
which is not part of the project.
5.07     The new wing vill house 183 beds,. The majority will be grouped in
wards designed so that infants will "sleep in" alongside their mother's bed;
this arrangement saves on construction space and by allowing mothers to
attend to their babies, will reduce staffing requirements. Limited provision
is made for nurseries to care for those babies who cannot be left in the wards.
In addition to all facilities needed for normal deliveries and post-partum
recovery, the new wing will provide space for the Hospital's midwifery school,
its administrative offices and reception area, and a number of consulting
offices for doctors.
5.08     The new wing will have a gross area of approximately 60,000 sq. ft.
The allocation of space to specific uses has been worked out by the hospital
adviser (see para. 5.25) in close consattation with the Medical
Director of thle VJH and is well-suited to the functions to be performed.
Design and space standards are adequate but modest; they were significantly
reduced during appraisal. The building will not be centrally air-conditioned;
however, individual air-conditioning units will be installed in a number of
key rooms.
5.09     The total number of beds in the Hospital before and after the
project is as follows:                                 After 1974
1970        Old Wing   New Wi         Total
1.  Antenatal                  18          48           -            48
2.  Intensive care             -            6           -             6
3.  1st stage labor/deliveny  24            -           33           33
44. Surgical (including
abortions and
ligations)               15           55           -            55
5. Lying-in or post-partum  108          5_4           150          204
Total               165          163         183           346
i/  For technical reasons the loann documents refer to the New WrTing as having
150 beds3 this represents the number of post-partum beds, the balance
consisting of first-stage labor and delivery "units" (beds).



- 19 -
5.10     The existing structure will not be demolished but will remain in
service after remodelling that will cost US$ 144,000 (less than 10% of total
VJH project costs). The remodelling will leave the present building with
163 beds. All the antenatal, intensive-care, and surgical facilities and
beds will be in the present building. The new wing is planned for handling
normal births and recoveries, not for surgical or intensive-care cases. After
the expansion, three-fourths of the post-partum beds will be in the new wing,
one-fourth in the old.
511      In addition to doubling the antenatal and lying-in capacity for
normal births, the project will increase from 15 to 55 the number of beds
for surgical patients, ie e. those requiring abortions or tubal ligations
(female sterilization).  The abortions to be performed in the VJH are not
related to family planning, since the government program does not include
abortion as one of its birth-prevention methods (Jamaican law on abortion
is strict). Nevertheless, a certain number of emergency cases arise where
abortions are necessary to protect the mother, and a maternity hospital,
working within the framework of national law, must be prepared to perform
this operation. Voluntary sterlization through tubal ligation stands on
a different footing: ligations are not controlled by law and such sterili-
zation, under careful controlsi/, is part of the NFPB's program. It is
hoped that the number of ligations performed at the VJH can be increased
from the present number of 300 p.a. to 600 to 1,000 p.a. Since VJH will
remain exclusively a maternity hospital, no general obstetrical surgery
will be performed; this will continue to be done at the adjacent Kingston
General Hospital. The project will provide six specialized beds for in-
tensive care maternity patients.  Since no significant change in the number
of deliveries is expected, the number of first-stage labor beds remains
almost unchanged.
5.12     As a result of the project, the country's largest maternity
hospital will offer, for the first time, adequate opportunities for con-
ducting an effective program of post-partum FP education.
5.13     The project will construct 10 Rural Maternity Centers (RHC's)
at strategic locations throughout the island. No such institution now
exists in Jamaica and their construction represents an innovation in the
island's health-delivery system. The objective is to provide a small
rural center which will be devoted exclusively to maternity and FP purposes --
primarily the delivery of babies by resident midwives but including some
antenatal care by nurses, and FP education.   The decision to introduce these
facilities coincides with a growing recognition of weaknesses in the present
system of midwifery services, now organized for home delivery by itinerant
district midwives employed by parish councils (see para. 4. 2W). With the
RMC's, many nore rural women will have a choice of having their babies outside
the home at a place where trained medical help is in attendance. More of the
rural midwives will be stationed at the RHOC's and fewer will have to travel
to homes, resulting in better utilization of midwives. The RMC environment
will provide an opportunity for post-partum FP education that does not exist
under home delivery conditions.
1f The VJH has developed its own procedures to make certain that womer
requesting ligations understand that this will prevent then from havirig
additional children; if mareied, both partners must sign a
statement authurizing the operation.



- 20 -
5.14      All 10 RMCIs will be of the same standard design, with adaptations
for individual sites. They will be one-story masonry structures that will
include a reception and administrative office, a doctor's office and examina-
tion room, a delivery room, a ward for post-partum lying-in, and living
quarters for one resident midwife. The design will be such that if demand
grows beyond initial capacity the structure can be expanded at low cost.
Estimated capital cost for a fully-equipped P14C is J$ 36,000; operating
costs have been estimated at J$ 6,300 including the salary of the resident
midwife but excluding any allowance for other medical and FP personnel
who would visit the facility on a periodic basis (see Annex 8).
5.15      Each RMP  would be under the jurisdiction of the District Medical
Officer, the chief representative of the Ministry of Health in each medical
district (snaller than a parish). He will work closely with the Public
Health Nurse for the district; these are almost invariably women of high
prestige whose association with and regular visits to the RMC's will be
important. The Family Planning Education Officer for the parish (an employee
of the NFPB) will visit each RMC on a regular schedule.  The resident mid-
wife will be in charge of day-to-day administration; she will be assisted by
other midwives in the district who will come in on a daily basis, by one
ward assistan-L, and by a kitchen and custodial staff of four. The doctor,
Public Health Nurse and FP Education Officer will come from outside to
visit the REC once or twice a week, normally on days when clinic sessions
are scheduled. These intended administrative arrangements should be con-
firmed during negotiations.
5.16      The estimated use of the RPC's is uncertain as it will depend
on (a) the population of the assumed catchment area, (b) the crude birth
rate assumed for that population, (c) the assumed proportion of mothers
who will be delivered in the RMC in preference to delivery at home, and
(d) the number of days a woman remains at the RMC. The catchment area
for a RMC is defined very crudely by the distance a woman about to deliver
can be expected to travel with confidence of reaching the Maternity Center
before labor starts. A maximum radius of 4 miles has been accepted for
planning purposes. Locations have been selected partly on the basis of
estimated populations of 8,000 or more within this approximate radius
(see Annex 7).  Assuming a birth rate of 35/1,000, a population of 8,000
can be expected to have 280 deliveries per year. If all 280 mothers
elected to have their babies at the 4MC, and all remained at the Center
four days, they would require 1120 bed-days. Since this is 25% below
the theoretical capacity of a h-bed Center, it seems clear that the basic
design,which permits any number of beds up to 10, will provide ample capacity.
This will accommodate any occasional 'Ibunchingil of arrivals that may occur.
In the early years underutilization, not inability to meet the demand, is
more likely to be the main problen,at some locations, at least. The size
of facility being built is the smallest that can provide the services needed.
5.17      It has not seemed practical to try to assure high utilization
of the F6iC's by linking them to special transport services. The main problem



- 21 -
is often a womanIs ability to get to a road from her dwelling in the bush;
once at the road she has reasonabole hooe of finding country transport to
the Center, but the expectation of being able to make advance arrangements
to meet her wi-th, say, an ambulance is too l,ow to make any regular provision
(the linistry of Health's 60 ambulances, posted about the country, will
nevertheless stand ready for delivery to RH!C's wihere prior arrangement
does prove feasible).
5.18      Locations for all 10 RMCTs have been agreed with the I4inistry of
Health and instructions have been issued to acouire building sites. An
inventory of utility services has also been made for each location (see
Annex 7).
5.19      The purpose of building the 10 RMC's described above is to make
a significant start in providing for the rural nopulation exactly
the same expanded opportunities for maternity care, and for access to FP
information during a mother's post-partum recovery that the VJH will provide
for the Kingston metropolitan area. The main difference will be that the
WIC's will not handle surgical cases.
Project Technical Assistance
5.20      The encouragement of greater efficiency in the administration of
the family planning programn is an important objective of the project. To
this end the project includes funds for (a) a study of the optimum scheduling
arrangements for the FP c'linics and staff serving the metropolitan Kingston
area, (b) a job-study to look for ways of making the best use of highly-
trained doctors and trained nurses, (c) a training adviser who can assist
the LTFPB in developing an overall training program to provide the skills
needed at all levels in the program, and (d) an annual external review by
international experts in the administration of family planning programs.
5.21      The scheduling study of the Kingston-area program would try to
identify ways for getting the most out of available facilities and staff
for a given level of expenditure.  At present 30 of the 34 KSAC health
clinics conduct family planning sessions either once per %.Teek or less;
4 clinics are open every day (each session consisting of half a day).
Sessions are nornally scheduled in the afternoons, since session staff
members are engaged on otlher work during the mornings.  No clinics hold
regular evening sessions. The tradition of interspersing family planning
sessions in the schedules of multi-ourpose clinics, plus the difficulty
of recruiting staff for single-purpose clinics (which would be open
all week for family planning uork exclusively), have largely determined
the pattern of service offered. To date, no adequate study has been made
of how well this meets the needs of the public or of the extent to which
a greater variety of arrangements, perhaps on an experimental basis, might
increase the number of acceotors. The 3-4 month study will cost less than



- 22 -
US$ 10,000. Preliminary terms of reference will be found in Annex 10.
5.22      The job-study is a response to the serious and increasing short-
age of skilled medical personnel on the island, especially doctors and
trained nurses, but also including midwives, The acceleration of inter-
national migration among medical personnel in recent years has reduced the
numbers of both doctors and nurses in Jamaica. The shortage of professional
staff is a major constraint on the NFPB in the scheduling of family planning
sessions. It is believed that a study of the relationship between specific
functions and tasks on the one hand, and required professional qualifica-
tions and training on the other, would reveal possibilities for economizing
on the use of scarce professional manpower, especially if others with lower
qualifications can be up-graded through special-purpose training. The
Ministry of Health would assume responsibility for the study which would be
conducted, it is hoped, by a faculty member at the Mona campus of the
University of the WFest Indies just outside Kingston. Total cost of the
study, which would take 4-5 months, should be less than US$ 15,000. Pre-
liminary termis of reference are given in Annex 11.  USAID has expressed
interest in financing both the KSAC clinic-scheduling and the job-content
studies.
5.23      The provision of a Training Adviser to the NFPB is needed to
see that continuous attention is given to this important aspect of the
program. The Board has already conducted a considerable amount of
training but an increase in the scale of effort is likely to be required
during the next 2-3 years, e.g. to assist the development of the EV program
(para. 4.16), to expand population and family planning content in training
of health personnel, and to implement reconmendations resulting from the
job-study (para. 5.22).  The adviser's work will involve working closely
with other senior personnel in government who have responsibility for
the education and training of medical and para-medical personnel. The
function may need an overseas adviser; if a qualified Jamaican can,however,
be recruited as a Training Officer, then no adviser and no loan provision
would be needed and the loan provision would be cancelled.
5.24      The project also includes provision for an annual external review
of the I\UPB Program for each of the disbursement years.  These will be
key years for the improvement of the program in order to realize the benefits
expected from the project. The purpose of such a review by outside experts
is to assist the government in establishing and maintaining high standards
of cost-effectiveness, i.e. so that the Board, the government, and the Bank
will have an independent judgment on whether or not the program is being
conducted at acceptable levels of efficiency and to identify specific
problems requiring special attention. Draft terms of reference for the
annual external review will be found in Annex 13.  The estimated cost is
US$ 25,000 for the four disbursement years. The experts would be appointed
by the government with Bank assistance and approval.   Responsibility for
organizing and supervising the external review, and for the two studies,
would rest with the Ministry of Health, and not with the Project Committee
described in para. 5.28.



- 23 -
Design, Tendering, and Procurement
5.25      All project facilities will be designed by private Jamaican
architectural and engineering firms. The firm of Wilson Chong and Associ-
ates, working in partnership with Caribbean Planners (engineers), has been
selected by the government to design the VJH. The firm of Shearer and
Morrison will design the RMC's. Both firms will also be responsible for
supervision during construction. "lthough the selection of both firms
has been approved by the Bank, contracts have not yet been signed, signing
of these contracts will be a condition of loan effectiveness. The Ministry
of Communications and Wborlks, which has overall responsibility for the con-
struction of government buildings, has retained as hospital advisers the
British architectural finm of Llewellyn-Davies, Weeks and Partners, specialists
in hospital design. This firm has prepared the functional program and cost
estimates for the VJH; the program has provided the basis for the present
cost estimate and will be used by Wilson Chong and Associates as the basis
for their design.
5.26      The project has been split into two parts both of wjhich will be
offered for international tender. The VJH construction contract will be
submitted to international tendering in line with normal Bank practice.
The second part includes the 10 Rural Maternity Centers; these will likewise
be offered for international tender, although the work may be too small
to interest contractors outside Jamaica. Tendering for these smaller
facilities will be on the basis that any domestic contractor on the MCW's
approved list, or any foreign contractor, may bid for any one or more of
the RMC facilities, evaluation will be on the basis of choosing that combina-
tion of bids which yields the lowest evaluated overall cost. This system
encourages bids from smaller but qualified local contractors as well as
foreign contractors~ it has been used with success on Bank projects in
other countries.
5.27      All furniture and equipment items are expected to be imported;
they will be procured under one or more separate international tenders as
recommended by the architects and approved by the Bank. If practicable,
items common to ooth the VJH and the EWC's will be procured under combined
tenders. The government has requested and the Bank has agreed to a 15%
domestic preference for any furniture and equipment tenders received from
domestic manufacturers. In the case of exceptional items which the architects
and the Bank may agree are unsuitable for international tender, and for which
contracts would not exceed US$ 5,000, bids may be requested from selected
local suppliers.
Coordination and Sunervision
5.28      Proper planning, design, and construction of the VJH and FB'C
facilities will require continuous consultations and decisions among the
architects, the hospital adviser, and the Ministries of Health, of Communica-



- 24 -
tions and Works and of Finance. It has been agreed that these functions
will be exercised by two ad hoc groups, a policy-making Project Committee
and an administrative Project Team. The Project Committee would include
senior representatives from the Ministries of Health, Communications and
Works, and Finance.  The representative of the Ministry of Health would
serve as chairman. The Project Team would be responsible to the Project
Committee; it would concern itself with details of planning and execution,
with carrying out decisions of the Project Committee, and with reporting
back progress and problems to that Committee. Membership of the Project
Team would consist of representatives from the Ministry of Health and
Communications and Works, the Senior Medical Officer of the VJH, the archi-
tects, and, as reouired, the hospital advisers. Individuals representing
each constituent organization have been named.
5.29      Normal suoervision of the contractors would be a responsibility
of the local architects; the latter would be responsible to the Ministry
of Communications and Works, not to the Project Team.
Project Timetable
5.30      A preliminary timetable for both construction components of the
project has been fixed (Annex 9) and has been approved by the hospital
adviser; the consulting architects have been asked to confirm or revise
this schedule. According to this schedule, tender documents for the VJH
will be issued in March, 1971, with construction starting in September.
Construction would take two years, so that the new wing would be ready
for occupancy about September 1, 1973.  (Bremodelling of the existing
building can start before the new wing is fully completed but the re-
modelling is not likely to be completed before January 1, 1974.)  Project
preparation has proceeded somewhat ahead of schedule, so that it may be
possible to compress the hospital schedule by about six months. Designs
for the 10 FIC's should be completed and approved by August 1, 1970, with
tender documents issued by September 1. Work on the first units should
start about January 1, 1971. All 10 Centers should be ready for occupancy
within 12 months thereafter. Site acquisitions may slow down this timetable
for the RBMC's, although construction can proceed without having to wait
for government to secure a clear title to land if the terms of sale have
been concluded with the seller.
5.31      The four technical assistance components of the project cannot
be scheduled as precisely.  ,he first annual external review is intended
to be conducted during the late summer of 1971, with subsequent reviews
at approximate annual intervals thereafter until the loan closing date
in 1974. The three other components should be implemented as early as
suitable people can be found. Preliminary discussions indicate that (a)
the study of the Kingston-area facilities and staff can be done in the
summer of 1970, (b) the study of skill-requirements can be started this
summer and completed before the end of the year, and (c) a suitable
Training Adviser can be appointed before the end of 1S70.



- 25 -
Financing and Disbursements
5.32      The Bank loan will finance foreign exchange costs of the project
estimated at US$ 1.6 million and interest and commitment charges during con-
struction of US$ 0.3 million (these are being r-ounded up to US$ 2.0 million
as the loan amount). USAID has expressed a willingness to assume primary
responsibility for financing two of the four technical assistance elements,
namely, the research studies on the Kingston-area facilities and the study
of skill-requirements. If this arrangement is confirmed, Bank funds for
these twfo components, totalling US$ 25,000, wiould serve as a contingency
reserve for the studies in question; they would be used only if the USAID
funds should not become available or if they should be inadequate in amount.
If not used for this purpose, these study funds would be cancelled unless
required for either of the other two technical assistance components. All
costs of the project not covered by the Bank loan, including any cost over-
runs, will be borne by the Government of Jamaica.
5.33      The following table shows the main categories of expenditure under
the project, plus financial charges on the Bank loan during construction,
and the estimated foreign exchange requirements for each category. The
foreign exchange component of the construction contracts has been estimated
on the assumption that they would be awarded to foreign firms; if domestic
firms should win the contracts the foreign exchange percentage for the civil
works might drop from 50% to 40-45%. In view of the small sum involved, no
adjustment in the loan amount would be made to reflect the slightly lower
foreign exchange cormonent under domestic contractors; this would imply
Bank financing of local currency costs equal to 3-6% of total project costs.
Categories of Expenditures        Total Cost    Foreign Exchange    F.E. %
(approx.)
US$ million
I.  Civil Works                     1.82             0.89               50%
Victoria Jubilee Hospital       1.50             o.80              5%
Pural Maternity Homes           0.32             0.09              27%
II. Professional Fees
Design, hospital adviser,
supervision of construction    0. 2              0g.09             33%
III.  Furniture and Equipment         0.32             0.30,              95%
TV. Studies and Technical Asst.    0.10               0.06               60%
2.50            1.3                54%
V. Contingencies                    0.50             0.27               55%
Total Project Costs        T.                       514%
VI. Interest and similar charges
up to Dec. 31, 19714            0.30             0.30              100%
TOTAL FEiANCIAL REQUIPEMENTS   3.30              1.91               60%



- 26 -
5.34      Disbursement arrangements are designed to facilitate loan
administration and to assure reimrbursement of the full foreign exchange
component up to a maximum of US$ 2.0 million. Disbursement for "furniture
and equipment" would be at 100% of the c.i.f. value in the case of foreign
suppliers and/or of ex-factory price in the unexpected event that local
suppliers might tender and be awarded contracts for certain items. The
local currency content of any furniture and equipment contracts won by
local manufacturers would be too sreall to justify a differential disburse-
ment percentage. Reimbursements for all other categories, viz., civil
works, professional services, and studies and technical assistance,
would be at a uniform 50% of approved total expenditures.
5.35      A rough estimate of the phasing of project expenditures and of
loan disbursements is as follows:
(uS$ 000's)
'70    '71    '72    '73    '74 Tootal
Droject expenditures   300    800    876    876    120        2,972
Loan disbursements     100    500    550    550    300        2,000
5.36      The main impact of the project on the government's recurring costs
will occur outside the budget of the NFPB. The budget increases directly
attributable to the project will occur in the operating costs of the
Victoria Jubilee Hospital and of the 10 Rural Maternity Centers.  The
operating costs of the VJH will rise from their present level of about
J$ 40oo,o0o to slightly under J$ 800,000 in the first full year after
completion of the project (Annex 5). Perhaps a quarter of this increase
would occur without the project; nevertheless, the project is likely to
add, directly, around J$ 4oo,000to J$ 500,000 to the government's annual
recurrent costs.  By fiscal year 1975 the national FP program (total NFPB
budget plus the increases in VJH and REC operating costs attributable to
the project) is likely to be costing the government around J$ 1.5 million.
This prospective level of recurrent expendi-ture is acceptable assuming
the program attains reasonable levels of effectiveness.
5.37      Although the project's direct effects on recurrent costs will
be modest, there is a danger that its indirect effects might add to over-
all budgetary needs. The government must guard against an inflation of



- 27 -
staff, act-ivities, and standards as a result of the attention to be given
a new high-priorit'y activity.  This danger mlakes it doubly important to
develop cost standards for program activities that can provide a basis
for evaluating budgetary trends. The first External Review should concern
itself with this problemi.



- 28 -
VI.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
6.01      The government is keenly aware of the social and economic implica-
tions of the present high rate of population growth. Concern for this
problem was first officially expressed in the draft Five Year (Development)
Plan, 1963-67, in the following terms:
"The government will seek to bring about a greater awareness of
the implications of rapid population growth and population pressure
in the island and of the natural problems arising, as well as the
effects of excessive child bearing on the lives and prospects of
individuals. The government will encourage the spread of informa-
tion and techniques for the spacing or limitation of families
for the benefit of those persons who desire them."
The government views efforts in family planning as a necessary complement
to its efforts in economic development. In the provision of family planning
services, the concept of voluntary participation is emphasized. The
government is responding to the desire of families to limit and space their
children. These private desires coincide with the goals of the government
for social and economic development. To meet these goals, family planning
services should be provided as rapidly as possible to all couples who wish
to plan their families.
6.02      The project would improve the effectiveness of the family planning
program. This would lead to important social and economic benefits. On
the social side, the provision of better maternity services and fewer
pregnancies would improve the health of mothers. Maternal mortality - one
of the main causes of death for women of childbearing age - would be re-
duced. The availability and more extensive use of contraception would
reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies resulting either in induced
abortions under unsafe conditions (and often leading to death) or in un-
wanted children. Parents of smaller families can give greater care to
their children, resulting in better health and lower infant mortality.
Among the poorer sections of the population, fewer children would mean
less malnutrition. This is particularly important in the case of young
infants, when malnutrition can have permanent crippling consequences on
their physical and mental development. Family planning services would
thus lead to an inprovement in the quality of life, particularly among
the low income section of the population.  On the economic side, the family
planning program would gradually affect demographic trends; these changes
in turn would have important economic implications.
6.03      The demographic effects begin with the reduction in the annual
number of births as a result of the program. It is estimated that the
effect of the VJH component of the project alone would be to make the
total population in the year 2000 about 3% smaller than it otherwise would



- 29 -
be and the labor force about 1.6% smaller. But beyond this, and beyond
the direct effects of the Rural Maternity Centers, the project is expected
to influence the whole national family planning program. The impact of
the program is estimated to be some 4 times as large as that of the VJH
component of the project; this would lead to a population perhaps 12%
smaller and a labor force 6.4% smaller in the year 2000 than they wfould
otherwise have been, i.e., a population of around 2.58 million instead
of 2.94 million and a labor force of about 1.27 million instead of 1.36
million, assuming no change in the present participation rate. Further-
more, a successful national family planning program would lead to the
more widespread use of contraceptive methods among all groups of the
population, not just those couples registered in the official program,
the impact on population trends would be correspondingly enhanced.
6.o4      The decline in fertility will lead to an improvement in living
standards in the near team by changing the age structure of the population
and thereby reducing the number of consumers in relation to the labor force.
Each child must be fed, clothed, medically cared for and educated.  A smaller
number of children means that the same resources are available to a smaller
population. At the family level, more food, clothing, etc., is available
per member of each family practicing family planning. For the government,
resources that would have been needed to educate and care medically for the
additional population are now freed for other uses. Whether these resources
are invested or consumed, general living standards will improve. Both these
private and public improvements contribute to changes (e.g. better education
and further employment of women) which encourage attitudes favorable to
smaller families.
6.05      Unemployment is particularly acute in Jamaica, a densely populated
country with a high level of unemployment, considerable rural under-employment,
and limited possibilities for creating new jobs in industry or agriculture.
The availability of land suitable for intensive agricultural development is
extremely limited, and the exploitation of other natural resources (notably
bauxite and tourist attractions) offers no more than moderate scope for
additional employment.  The family planning program will eventually help
provide a solution to this problem by limiting the number of potential
entrants to the future labor force. This effect will be considerably delayed
since persons wzho will be entering the labor force in the next 15 to 20 years
have already been born.  Since the principal effect of the limitation on the
future labor force will be to reduce unemployment, the family planning program
is not likely to have a significant effect on the volume of output even in the
long run.
6.06      In summary, the project wsill improve the conditions under which
deliveries are performed and make for a more effective family planning
program. Such a program will have important social benefits, consisting
primarily of improvements in the health and welfare of mothers and children.
It 11 also lead to better living standards and will help alleviate the
long-run unemployment problem.



- 30 -
VII. REramTIo0
7.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
a. The content of a draft statute establishing the NFPB as an
administrative statutory body responsible for the govern-
ment's family planning program, specifying the minimum key
representation to be provided on the Board, and defining
the role of the Board's chief executive officer and his
relation to the Board (paras. 4.04 and 4.05).
b.  Not later than November 1, 1970, the government will submit
a revised Encouragement Visitor program for Bank comment;
it will implement the revised program not later than the end
of 1970 (para. 4.16).
c. By November 1, 1970, the government will submit for Bank
comment a description of the proposed administrative arrange-
tnents under which the gNC's will operate, together with pro-
posals for changes in the administration of the district
midwifery services resulting from the introduction of these
new facilities (para. 5.15).
d.  The government will conclude arrangements with USAID whereby
the latter will assume responsibility for working out final
arrangements for the studies of (a) the Kingston-area facilities
and (b) the medical and para-medical skills needed by FP teams.
These arrangements would be submitted to the Bank for comment.
USAID is expected to finance these studies, with Bank funds
being available in case USAID funds are not forthcoming or
are insufficient (para. 5.32).
e.  The government will cause the NFIPB to appoint, by December,
1970, either a Training Officer or a Training Adviser accept-
able to the Bank. If a Jamaican should be appointed, the
loan provision for this post would not be needed and would
be cancelled (para. 5.23).
7.02     Enactment of the NFPB statute, appointment of the Board, and
appointment of a chief executive officer acceptable to the Bank, are
conditions of loan effectiveness.
7.03     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 2.0 million with
a tern of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



MIIBEX 1
JAMAICA
POPULATION, BIRTHS
AND NO. OF DELIVERIES IN PUBLIC HOSPITALS AND BY DISTRICT MIDWIVES
BY PARISHESS
1964-1968
1964     1965     1966     19`7    1968
1. Kingston and St. Andrew
A. Population                476,035   493,619  511,483  525,290  5422,432
B. No. of Births              23,126    23,352   24,284   23,211   22,606
i. In Hospitals           15,000    14,590   15,312   16,018   14,889
ii. By Dist. Midwives       1 634     2 164    1,710    1,764    14b7
Sub-total           16,6      T6,7    17,022   17,782   16,336
2. Clarendon
A. Population                177,839   182,833  186,047  188,482  192,180
B. No. of Births               6,150      6,192    6,059    5,532    5,307
i. In Hospitals              402        404      416      393      429*
ii. By Dist. Midwives       2 322      2 655    2 4459    2 142    1,685
Sub-total             v7t30 m  i                   t 2     2,114
3. St.Catherine
A. Population                166,801   171,195  176,041  179,130  183,641
B. No. of Births               6,109     6,330    7,084    6,309    6,344
i. In Hospitals              195*       292*   1,501    1,445*  1,765*
ii. By Dist. Midwives       2,580      2 494    2 1614   1,776    1,592
Sub-total            2,775                        3,221
4.  St.Elizabeth
A. Population                125,344   128,223  131,077  133,088  155,696
B.  No. of Births          . 4,356    14,490    4,510    4,329    3,950
i. In Hospitals              264        378      599      361      380
ii. By Dist. Midwives       1 472     1 277    1 1449    1 208    1 101
Sub-total            1                            TM  X  m   T



ANNKX 1
Page 2
1964     1965     1966      1967     1968
5. St.Ann
A.  Population                123,487  126,121  128,803  130,529   133,224
B.  No. of Births               4,208    4,079    4,121    3,980       3,893
i. In Hospitals               350      406       429      518        693
ii. By Dist. Midwives        1 494    1 474    1,762    1,125         931
Sub-total            Tt11            1880    2,191    1,    1,624
6. Manchester
A. Population                 120,699  123,593  126,531  128,555   131,391
B. No. of Births               4k517    4,444    4,674    4,351        4,284
i. In Hospitals               448*   1,228       749*   1,588*    1,412*
ii. By Dist. Midwives        13724    1,698    1 772    1 560       1 416
Sub-total             2,172    2,926                         2 TTm
7. Westmoreland
A.  Population                118,195  120,827  123,229  124,621   126,988
B.  No. of Births               4,273    4,079    3,927    3,538       3,h68
i. In Hospitals               955    1,071    1,030    1,167*        950*
ii. By Dist. Midwives          986    1,173    1,029       982        834
Sub-total             1,941    2,02M     2,2149             1,784
8. St.Mary
A.  Population                100,379  102,790  105,055  106,630   108,929
B.  No. of Births               3,480    3,571    3,595    3,492       3,390
i. In Hospitals             1,017    1,068    1,072    1,333*    1,104
ii. By Dist. Midwives        1,096    1,224    1,138       893      1 333
Sub-total             2,113    2,292    2,210    2,226      2
9. St.James
A.  Population                 92,253   95,057   97,819   99,893   102,469
B.  No. of Births               3,768    3,865    3,966    3,844       3,585
i. In Hospitals               938    1,460    1,206    1,236       1,44o*
ii. By Dist. Midwives        1 216    1,059    1 044    1,040       1,098
Sub-total                                           27  2,216



ANEX 1
Pa ge 3
1964    1965    1966    1967       1968
10. St. Thomas
A. Population                 73,230  74,812   76,453   77,428  79,145
B. No. of Births              2,485    2,487    2,547    2,406    2,553
i. In Hospitals             489      492      532      593      624
ii. By Dst. Midwives         948      957    1 064      913      862
Sub-total           1,437    1,449    1         ,5o6   1,486
11. Portland
A. Population                 68,664   70,187   71,532   72,380   73,600
B. No. of Births              2,218    2,318    2,284    2,165   1,875
i. In Hospitals             750      910      643*  1,071*    170
ii. ByTPist. Midwives        785      589      477      359      380
Sub-total           1,535    1,499    1,120    1,3-0    550
12. Hanover
A. Population                 58,384   59,874   61,265  62,312   63,813
B. No. of Births              2,198    2,228    2,198    2,165    2,123
i. In Hospitals             383      333      366      431      424
ii. By Dist. lid&tives       687      729      874      829      798
Sub-total           1,070    10       1,240    1,260    1,222
13. TrelavMy
A. Population                60,916   62,482   63,737   64,739   66,141
B. No. of Births              2,378    2,333    2,115    2,116    2,021
i. In Hospitals             552      608      640      476*    624*
ii. By Dist. Midwives      1 136    1,183    1 014      915      9L9
Sub-total           L;    1,791                1,391    1,573
Country Totals (in 000's)
A. Population                1,762    1,810    1,859    1,893    1,940
B. No. of Births                69.3      69.8    71.4    67.4    65.4
i. In Hospitals
No.                       21.7     23.2    24.5    26.6    26.1
% (i over B)             31        33       34       39       40
ii. By Dist. Midwives
No.                      18.1      18.7    18.0    15.5    14.4
% (ii over B)             26       27       25       23       22
iii. Manas & others (%)       43        40       41       38       38
* Data incomplete.
Source: Ministry of Health
November, 1969



ANNEX 2
JAMAICA
POPUIATIOiJ PROJECT
Anticipated crude birth rate 1966 - 1980
Expected birth
Year                                rate
1966*                               38.9
1967*                               35.9
1968*                               31X.2
1969                                31.8
1970                                29.6
1971                                28.1
1972                                26.6
1973                                25.3
1974                                24.0
1975                                23.0
1976                                22.0
1977                                21.0
1978                                20.0
1979                                19.0
1>80                                18.0
*Preliminary actual figures from the Registrar General's Department.
NOTE: 1. Assumptions re decline in the crude birth rate are taken from
the Board's 3-year Program (1968-71) Ref: Schedule 1.
(Demographic Background).
2. Other assumptions: Starting from the 1968 figure, the birth rate
should be down to 31.8 in 1969 and thereafter a steady decline
until the crude birth rate is down to below the 20's.
ASSUMPTIONS:
(1) One-third (1/3) of the patients admitted in the first year drop out,
also one-third in the second and third years of the projection and
thereafter one-half of the new and old patients taken together.
(2) At least 24,000 new patients will enter the Board's program each
year. This is based on the present performance of approximately
2,000 new patients each month, which is somewhat higher than the
Board's target of 20,000 new acceptors each year.
Projections are based on clinic performance over the past 12 months, October
1968 - November 1969.
Source: National Family Planning Board.
December, 1969



ANNEX 3
Table 1
JAM-A,ICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Service Statistics, National Family Planning Program
by Mv-onth for Period November 1968 through January 1970
New                     Hissed
Month     Patients     Revisits      Visits     Active*      Pap Smears/%
1968
Nov.        3,353           144         218     3,305        1,385   (41)
Dec.        2,096           877       1,234        887 (?)     94
Total     5,449        1,021        1,452     4,192        2,329
1969
Jan.        3,028        1,646        1,464     3,379        1,207
Feb.        2,908        2,295        1,806     5,431          -
March       2,999         2,892       2,744    14,061        1,051
April       2,579        4,302        2,642    16,075        1,123
May         2,664         4,671       2,773    17,965        1,138
June        2,122        5,110        3,204    19,253          969   (46)
July        2,287        5,110        3,204    20,016        1,026   (45)
Aug.        1,795         5,141       3,292    20,124          844   (47)
Sept.       1,988        6,002        3,163    20,413          792   (ho)
Oct.        2,067         5,871       3,203    19,820          767   (37)
Nov.        2,133        9,286        3,320    23,021          906   (42)
Dec.        1,823        6,899        4,150    23,h83          739   (41)
Total    28,293       59,516       34,773                10,562
1970
Jan.        2,084        7,957        3,838    24,843          972   (47)
* Active is defined as patients registered on first visit to a clinic.
Source: National Family Planning Board
March, 1970



Table 2
JANaICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Number of New Acceptors and Re-visits
by Parish:  Jan. - Dec. 1969
Sessions         New          Re-          Total
Parish        Clinics*       Held        Acceptors     visits       Attendance
K.S.A.C.           35        1,490          11,320        2h,068       35,388
St. Thomas          4           97             523          498         1,021
Portland            8           111          1,380         2,8h9        4,229
St. Mary            8           270          1,286        2,688         3,974
St. Ann            14          632           2,014         ,670         6,684
Trelawny            8           218            904        1,701         2,605
St. James           7          310           2,061        6,733         8,794
Hanover             8           192            958         3,536        4,494
IW,estmoreland      5           103            752         1,590        2,342
St. Elizabeth       7          134           1,417        2,995         4,412
Manchester         13           326          1,622         2,766        4,388
Clarendon           6           138          1,589        1,194         2,783
St. Catherine      14          319           2,174        3,00?9        5, 176
Sub-Total                                28,000       58,290        86,2)0
Unspecified
by Parish                                     393        1,302         1L,69
Grand Total    137        4,340          28,393       59,592        87,985
*  As at December 31, 1969.
Source:  National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



ANNEX 3
Table 3
JAMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Parish Targets for New Acceptors:  April 1969 - March 1970
Balance of Target
New Acceptors        (to be reached
Parish                 Target     Apr. - Dec. '69      Jan. - Mar. 170)
K.S.A.C.                      8,000           8,818                   *
St. Thomas                      800             437                   363
Portland                      1,100             988                   112
St. Mary                      1,200             909                   291
St. Ann                       2,000          1,427                    573
Trelawny                        700             613                    87
St. Jarmes                    1,500          1,621                   *
Hanover                       1,000             707                   293
Westmoreland                  1,700           1,C63                   637
St. Elizabeth                 1,700          1,098                    602
Manchester                    1,600           1,199                   401
Clarendon                     1,600           1,160                   440
,t. Catherine                 1,800          1,694                   106
All Parishes                 2b,700          21,734                 2,966
* These Parishes have already exceeded their targets.
Source: National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



UI^TEx 3
Table 4
JAI4AICA
POPULATION PROJECT
New Acceptors Classified by Number of
PFrevious (a) Live Births and (b) Pregnancies
Live Births   1969             %         Pregnancies    1959               %
One          3,4184          12.3        One            3,109            10.9
Two          4,583           16.1        Two            4,207            14.8
Three        4,614           16.3         Three         4,276            15.1
Four    4     ,212           14.8)        Four          3,973            1 0)
Five         3,304           11.6)        Five          3,44h6           12.1)
) 52.9                                      ) 5743
Six          2,548            9.0)        Six           2,646             9.3)
Seven &                          )       Seven &                             )
Over       4,966           17.5)         Over         6,204            21.9)
None           682            2.4        NJone            532             1.9
Total  28,393          100.0                      28,393           100.0
Source: National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



ANNEX 3
Table 5
JMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
__ _~~~~~Z
Productivity of Clinics as Measured
by Nlew Acceptors Rec-orded
(January, 1970)
No.                                               Total
of                               Cumulative        New        CumulativelJ
New Acceptors     No. of Clinics          %          Acceptorsl/  _
Over 100                   5              3.7            645            33
90- 99                    0               3.7             0             33
80- 89                    0               3.7             0             33
70 - 79                   2               5.2            1145           40
60 - 69                   1               5.9             66           143.5
50- 59                    1               6.7             50           146
ho - 49                   2               8.2             94            51
30 - 39                   4              11.1            137            58
20- 29                   114             21.14           336            75
10 - i9                  19              35.5            252            88
5-  9                   26              55.0            174            97
1-  4                   26              74.0             62           100
Sub-total      100             74.0           1,961           100
Not reporting by
due date              35              25.0     (not available)
Total      135            100.0      (not available)
1/ From the 100 reporting clinics only.
Source: National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



ANEX 3
Table 6
JAMiAICA
POPULATIONJ PROJECT
Number of New Acceptors i,y Method of Contraception Accepted
New Acceptors
Method of Contraception     Sept. Quar.    Dec. Quar.    1969        _
Pill                          3,865            3,620      18,132     63.9
I U D                           782              631       3,909     13.8
Condom                           86              119         371      1.3
Diaphragm                       1L45             165         638       2.2
Rhythm                            5                1          11  negligible
Foaming Tablets                 386              606       2,311      8.2
Cream                           237              182         752       2.6
Jelly                            56               32         194       .7
Other                            15               13          76       .3
No MBethod                      4.93             654       1,999      7.0
Total                    6,070            6,023      28,393    100.0
Source: National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



ANNEFf 3
Table 7
JAF-kICA
POPULATIOT PROJECT
New Acceptors Classified by Source of
Referral (1969)
New Acceptors
Source of Referral          Sept. Quar.      Dec. Quar.     1969      %
Mass Media                      446               642       2,190     7.7
Encouragement Visitors          748               676      4,433    15.6
Family Planning Educa-
tion Officers                 146               209        572      2.0
Doctors                         273               246      1,401      4.9
Nurses                        2,099             2,062      9,669    34.0
Relatives                       238               240      1,153      4.1
Friends                       1,945             1,704      8,06o4    28.4
Others                           94                55         355     1.3
Not Recorded                     81               189        556      2.0
Total                    6,o70            6,023      28,393   100.0
Source: National Family Planning Board
March 20, 1970



ANNEx 4
JAMAICA
POPULATIOlI PROJECT
COST ESTDvIATES
Local  Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign   Total
J$ 000's                   US$ 000's
I. CONSTRUCTION COSTS
A, Victoria Jubilee Hospital
Land (already owned)               -        -        -        -         -
New Wing                        400.0   580.0    980.0    480.0   696.0  1,176.0
Linking Bridge                    3.5       4.8      8.3      4.2      5.7       9.9
Furniture & Equipment            10.0    190.0    200.0      12.0    238.0    250.0
Site Works                       85.0      40.0   125.0    102.0      48.0   150.0
Remodelling existing building    75.0      45.0   120.0      90.0     54.0   144.0
Prof'l Fees, incl. Hosp.Advir  125.6      66.4    192.0   150.7    79.7   230.
Subtotal:  VJH             699.1    926.2  1,625.3    838.9  1,113.4  1,952.3
B. Rural Maternity Centers
Land                              10.0      -       10.0     12.0      -        12.0
Site Works                        4.0       1.0      5.0      4.8      1.2       6.o
Cornstruction                   175.0    75.0   250.0    210.0        90.0    300.C
Furniture & Equipment             6.0     54.0      60.0      7.2     64.8    72.0
Professional Fees                26.0       6.0     32.0     31.2      7.2     38.4
Subtotal:  RMC's           221.0    136.0    357.0    265.2    163.2    428.4
Subtotal Construction Cost:   920.1  1,062.2  1,982.3  1,104.1  1,276.6  2,38C.7
1E. STUDIES & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   30.0     50.0     80.0      36.o     60.0     96.o
Subtotal I and II:            950.1  1,112.2  2,062.3  1,1140.1  1,336.6  2,476.7
III CONTINGENCIES (20%)             190.0    222.4    412.4    228.0    267.3    495.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST            1,1140.1 1,334.6  2,474.7  1,368.1  1,603.9  2j972.0
Interest & commit't charges
du:-Ing construction             -       250.0    250.0      -      300.0    300.0
Total Foreign Exchange
requirements                     -    1,584.6       -        -    1,903.9       -



JAMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Victoria Jubilee Hospital:
Recurrent Estimates Before and After the Project
A.  In Summary
(Jamaican $)
Projection of Recurrent Costs - based on an average annual normal increase
of 5% and taking financial year 1972/73* as the first year of operation of
the extended facilities.
1969/70          hoO,ooQ
1970/71          420,000
1971/72          441,000
1972/73*         7383o50
1973/74          774,950
1974/75          812,700
1975/76          853,335
1976/77          896,000



Ax 
Page 2
B. In Detail
(Jamaican $)
1969/70       Additional            New
Estimates    Requirements (a)    Estimates
No.    Cost
I* SALARIES AND WAGES
1. Medical
1 Senior Medical Officer        5,400                              5,400
1 Specialist Med. Officer       5,000        1        5,000       10,000
4 Medical Officers             16,000        1       4,000        20,000
2.  Para-Medical
1 Matron  Grade I                _           1       3,200         3,200
1 Matron  Grade II              3,000                              3,000
2 Matrons Grade III             4,1400                             4,4O
17 Sisters                      37,400       21       35,280       72,680
72 Staff Nurses                108,000       57      68,400       176,,400
- Departmental Sisters           -           3       5,400         5,400
8 Midwives                      8,800       23      23,000        31,800
Laboratory Technicians         -           3       4.,140        4,140
3. Executive and Clerical
- Chief Executive Ctficer        -           1       3,700         3,700
1 Clerical Officer   I          1,420                              1,420
1 Clerical Officer  II            950                                950
1 Steno/Typist                  1,100        3        3,150        4,250
3 Departmental Assistants II   2,965         7        6,100        9,065
- Assistant Medical
Records Officer              -           1       1,740         1,740
1 Warden                        1,420                              1,420
1 Assistant WKarden               870                                870
1 Housekeeper I                  800                                 800
- Linen Room Supervisor          -           1       1,420         1,420
1 Telephone Operator              950                                950
4. Auxiliaries
- Ward Assistants                           38       31,600       31,600
54 Hospital Maids              3 800        24      13,100        43,900
- Head Cook                      -           1          832          832
3 Cooks                         2,496        -                     2,496
2 Seamstresses                  1,350        2       1,350         2,700
- Artisan  TTI                   -           1       1,066         l,S
1 Artisan   IV                    910        -                       91G



ANNEx 5
Page 3
1969/70        Additional           New
Estimates     Pequirements (a)   Estimates
No.     Cost
4 Ambulance Drivers             3,950         2      1,586         5,536
1 Wlatchman  II                   625         -                      o25
1 Chief Orderly                   715         -                      715
20 Male Orderlies               14 560         -                   14,560
3 Gate Porters                  2,000         -                    2,000
1 Gardener                        598         _                      598
1 Iale Messenger                  S50         -                      650
1 Female Messenger                5h6         -                      546
TOTAL SALARIES AND l'AGES
(Jamaican ")          257,675       190    2143064       471,739
II. OTHER PEP.SONAL ]IOLUMENTS
Temporary and Relief Staff   5,000                 1,000         6,000
Acting Allowance              2,000                  500         2,500
Seniority Allowance             500                 -              500
Uniform Allowance             1,000                1,080         2,080
National Insurance            5,155   _4,280                     9,435
TOTAL PER.1ONAL EMOLUIENTS
(Jamaican $)          271,330               220,924      492,254
III. OTHER CHk.RGES
Transport and Sub-
sistence - Staff           1,500                   300         1,800
Dietary                      40,o00               24,000        64,000
Laundry Services             14,900                  600        15,500
Cleaning Supplies           1i,000                   800        1h,800
Pest Control                    600                  400         1,000
Drugs and Medical Supplies  2h,0O                12,000        36,0oo
Light and Power                 140*               1,86o         2,000
W4ater                         -                     -            -
Telephones                    1,400                1,600         3,000
Fuel                          2,000                2,000        h,000
Maintenance Services
Buildings (Minor)               2I)0**               200           ho0
Equipment                     2,400                  600         3,000
Furniture                       oO                   6cSO        1,200



-ANNEX5
Page 4
1969/70        Additional           New
Estimates     Fequirements (a)   Estimates
Cos t
Grounds                         100                    50          150
Transport                     1,400                   600        2,000
Christmas Treats (Patients)    200                    100           300
Funeral Expenses                200                   100          300
Stationery                      100                   100          200
Uniforms (Staff)              4,900                 4,000         8,900
Linen                        15 ,0Ct                5)000       20,00'g
Utensils/Crockery             4,000                 1,000         5,000
TOTAL OTHEP CHARGES
(Jamaican t)          127,640                55,910       183,550
GPAND TOTAL
(Jamaican $3398,970                         276,834       67584
a) Preliminary Estimates
*   Light and Power - supplied 'oy K.P.H.
**i~ Paid by Accountant General
*~**  Ilaintenance of Buildings - Ministry of Communications and Works
Source: Ikiinistry of Health (adjusted)
November 29, 1969



AMNEX 6
Table 1
JAMAICA
POPUIATION PROJECT
Budget of the National Faniily Planning Board for the
Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 1970
J$                of
NFPB Staff          Items of Expenditure           (rounded)           Total
Salaries
4               Administration                    20,800              4.1
3               Program & publicity               12,100              2.4
8               Statistics                        12,200              2.4
9               Accounts                          14,500              2.9
4               Clinic services                    7,300              1.4
2 (1 consult.)  Gynecology                         2,500             0.5
30               Education                         51,900             10.2
15 FP Ed. Officers 36,900
15 Clerk-typists    15,000
8               Registry & Common Services        12,000              2.4
68*                                                       133,300          20.3
Other
Transp. & Subsist. allows.       25,400              5.1
Board expenses                    1,800              0.4
Mlisc. office expense            12,100              2.4
Legal                               400              0.1
Printing & stationery             8,000              1.6
Training & conferences           10,200              2.0
Sessional fees                  108,900             21.7
Education & promotion            50,000              9.9
Cytology                         22,600              4.0
Books & publica's                 1,000              0.2
Drugs & supplies                 43,000              8.6
Miedical equipment                6,000              1.2
Research                          2,000              0.4
Subsidies to volunt. agencies   30,000               6.0
Data processing                   8,400              1.7
Nat'l. insur. contributions       2,600              0.5
Staff pensions                   10,700              2.1
Non-recurrent items              26,400              5.3
(auto loans: 20,000)
369,500         73.2
Grand total                             502,800          99.5
*The budgeted figure for the preceding year was 44; the increase of 24 con-
sisted of 15 clerk-typists in the Education Department, 5 clerical people In
Statistics, an Asst. Accountant and a clerical assistant, and 3 other clerical
employees, and 1 custodial. The post of Executive Officer was elirinated.
Source:  Netional Family Planning Board (adapted)
Dpcember, 1968



ANNEX 6
JA1,AICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Estimated Annual Recurrent Expenditure
National Family Planning Board
April 1, 1971 - lvIarch 31, 1976
(Jamnaican $ 0ooTs)
SERVICES              1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975J76
Education & Training             207.6      215.4     223.4      231.5     240.4
Publicity & Public Relations    111.9       131.8     155.6      194.O     198.5
F.P. Clinics & Med. Services    224.0       236.8     252.2      263.8     277.5
Cytology                          34.2       36.4      37.2       38.0      38-9
Gynecology                         4.7        5.0        5.2       5.4       5.6
Statistics                        14.1       14.8      15.4       16.1      17.0
Administration                    46.8       48.5       50.2      51.1      52.
Finance, Accounts & General       57.9       64.7      71.5       77.4      &L.2
TOTAL                     $702.2      $754.   t%810.6   $877.3    $915.0
Source: Ministry of Health
December 1, 1969



ANSNEX 7
JA1MAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
LOCATION DATA FOR RURAL MATERNITY CENTERS
PARISH: Town                 Poplation      No. of Births       Midwives
a. Nearest hosp.           4-mile radius      (Annual        a. Number
b. Nearest clinic                1968          Average)      b.  '68 Deli-
c.  Utilities avai14                                             veries
1.  ST. THOMAS:  Pt. Morant         7,500           230           a.   3
b. N.A.
a.  Pt. Margaret     7 mi.
b.  I. Barrant       8 mi.
c. E.WS.T., PT.
2. PORTLAND: Long Bay               6,100           120           a.   1
b. 61
a.  Pt. Antonio     14 mi.
b.  Manch.           8 mi.
c.  E.WAIS., PT.
3.  ST. JAMES:  Hopeton             9,900           180           a.   2
b. (1) 162
a.  NB              10 mi.
b. M4aroon Tn.       8 mi.
c. E., PT.
4. HANOVER:  Friendship             7,200           300           a.   5
b. 247
a. MB               15 mi.
b.  Hopewell         8 mi.
c.  PT.
5. HANOVER:  Green Island          12,900           N.A.          N.A.
a.  Lucea           12 mi.
b.
c. E.WS., PT.
6.  TRELAIINY:  Clarks Town         9,200           40           a.   4
b. 300
a.  Fal.            14 mi.
b.  Jackson Tn.      4 mi.
c. E.WS.T.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
PARISH:  Town                Population     No. of Births       Midwives
a. Nearest hosp.           4-mile radius      (Annual        a. Number
b. Nearest clinic               1968           Average)    b.  '68 Deli-
c.  Utilities avail.                                             veries
7. ST. ELIZABETH: Mountainside  8,850               N.A.          N.A.
a. B. River          8 mi.
b.  Malvem          10 mi.
c. E.WS., PT.
8. ST. ELIZABETH: Elderslie        5,750            N.A.          N.A.
a.  B. River        20 mi.
b.
c. None
9. MANCHESTER: Malton             10,200            600           a.  4
b. 199
a.  Spaldings       10 mi.
b.  Mile Gully       9 mi.
c. None
10. ST. MARY: Wlood Park          14,300            N.A.          a.   2
b. N.A.
a.  P. Maria        15 mi.
b.  Gayle            4 mi.
c.  E. JS., PT.
1/  Abbreviations:   E - Electricity
T - Telephone
WS - Water Supply
PT - Public Transport
Ministry of Health
February 1970



ANNEX 8
JA1iAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Note on Rural Maternity Centres
I. GENERAL
Over the past five years approximately 39% of the registered
births in the island have taken place in Government Hospitals. Of the
remainder, about 23% of deliveries have been done by District Midwives
(employed by the Parish Councils), about 37% are done by untrained local
Nanas. Deliveries in Private Hospitals and Clinics are estimated at not
more than about 1%.
The number of deliveries now being done by the District Midwives
averages only 4 - 5 each per month. The main reasons for this very poor
performance are:
(a) the difficult terrain which the midwife has to cover, and
the absence of any reliable means of transport;
(b) the increasing reluctance of midwives to answer night calls
in lonely areas where, even though they may be accompanied
to the home, they have to return late at night and unaccompanied.
In these circumstances it appears very necessary that the accent
should be shifted from Domiciliary Midwifery to delivery in an Institution.
The advantages which it is considered will be gained are:
(a)  The mothers during their stay in the Rural Maternity Centre will
experience all the benefits of delivery in a good environment. They will
receive useful health education in general and specific family planning
education especially from the Family Planning Education Officer whose duties
will include regular visits to the Centres, and also from the Public Health
Nurse who will also visit regularly.
(b) The Midwives will increase considerably their number of actual
deliveries, and they will do so in an organized manner at the Centre, in-
stead of having to spend probably day and night waiting for a single
delivery to take place in an isolated home.
(c) The Midwives will therefore be able to spend more of their time
with the Public Health Nurse in the ante-natal and Infant Clinics, where
effective Health Education work is done.



ANNEX8
Page 2
II. OBJECTIVE
To provide ten (10) Maternity Units (ranging in size from 4-10
beds) in certain remote areas located at distances ranging from 7 to 20 miles
from the nearest Public Hospital, and servicing an average population of
8000 within a 4 mile radius.
A schedule of the proposed locations together with other relative
data is attached (Table ). (The Ministry of Rural Land Development have
already been requested to obtain building sites).
III. ORGANIZATION
Present proposals are for each Centre to be initially staffed
by one (1) resident midwife (and a small number of ancilliary staff) and
to be assisted by other midwives located in the area as is necessary.
The Centre will operate under the supervision of the District
Medical Officer and the Public Health Nurse for the area and will be
visited regularly by the Family Planning Education Officer for the parish.
In addition to the main object of child delivery and family
planning education, the proposed work-load of each Unit is as follows:
(i)  Ante-Natal Clinic           (weekly)
(ii)  Post-Natal Clinic           (every 2 wreeks)
(iii)  Family Planning Clinic      (weekly)
IV. COST ESTmMATES
Preliminary estimates of capital cost for establishing the
10 centres is J$295,000.
Equipment Costs are estimated at J$37,,000 (Table 1).
Annual Operational Costs for a four (b) bed unit are estimated
at J$6,300.(Tablel).
Ministry of Health
March 9, 1970



ANNEX 8
Table1
JAHAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Rural IMaternity Centres
Preliminary Cost Estimates
(Jamaican $)
Iten
I.  Medical Equipment, Instunents,
and Furniture (Four Bed Unit)
1.  Medical Equipment                         2,195.00
2.  Instruments                                 282.00
3. Furniture                                    538.00
4.  Residential Quarters (Bed/Sitter)           631.00
3,646.o.
II. Annual Recurrent Costs
1.  Salaries and Wages
1 Midwife (resident) ($1O0Ox$50 - $1200) 1,000.00
1 Ward Asst. ($16x75 - $19.00 per week.   832.00
1 Cook ($12x50 - $13.00) per week.        62h.00
1 Cleaner Attendant ($l050x500 - $11.50)
per week.                               546.00
*1 Male Attendant ($16x750 - $19.00)
per week                                832.00
1 Cook part-time reliever (2 days per
week) $1.65 per day                     172.00
1 Cleaner part-time reliever (8 hours
per week) $2.40 per week                125.00
National Insurance                          413.00  4,5U4
2.  Drugs and Medical Supplies                  600.00
3.  Dietary                                     500.00
4. Light and Fuel and Water                     2h0.00
5.  Linen - (replacements)                       50.00
6.  Utensils & Crockery (replacements)           50.00
7. Uniforms (Staff)                             100.00
8.  Repairs & maintenance - Equipment            20.00
9. Miscellaneous Expenses (Cleaning mater-
ials, Laundry etc.)                       150.00   1,710
ToLal Recurrent:                                    $6,254
*  Miscellaneous Duties of Portering, CleariAng compound a-c.
Source- Yinistiy of Health
November 29, J969



ANNEX 9
JAMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
TENTATIVE PROJECT TIIETABLE
I.  VICTORIA JUBILEE HOSPITAL                              Completion Date
1.  Bank approval of architect's sketch designi        June 15, 1970
2. Bank approval of architect's detailed designs
and tender documents                             November 15, 1970
3.  Issue of tender documents                          December 1, 1970
4. Award of contract                                   March 1, 1971
5. Start of construction                               April 15, 1971
6. New wing ready for occupancy                        April 1, 1973
7. Remodelling of present building completed           September 15, 1973
XI. RURAL MAThRNfTY CENTERS
1.  Bank approval of architect's sketch design         June 1, 1970
2. Bank approval of architect's detailed designs
and tender documents                             September 1, 1970
3. Issue of tender documents                           September 15, 1970
4. Award of tenders                                    December 1, 1970
5. Start of construction                               January 15, 1971
6.  Completion of all 10 RMC's                         January 15, 1972
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ELEMENTS
1. Utilization of FP facilities and staff study (Kingston area)
Field work completed                               Summer, 1970
Report completed                                   October 15, 1970
2. Work-study of medical and para-medical functions
Field work completed                               November 1, 1970
Report completed                                   January 30, 1971
3. Appointment of Training Adviser                     mid-fall, 1970
4. Annual External Review (about 3 weeks each)
Field work to be done September or October         1971-72-73-74
Reports to be completed h weeks after field work
April 22, 1970



ANNEX 10
JA14AICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Scheduling Study of Kingston Area Facilities
(Draft Terms of Reference)
1.        The Bank and the NFPB have agreed that it would be useful to study
the FP service-delivery system in the K.S.A.C. area to see what types of
scheduling arrangements are likely to generate the largest number of visitors
to health centers for FP services. The Kingston facilities represent the
largest concentration of clinics and FP. personnel in the system, and the
largest concentration of population. The Kingston health centers are an
integral part of the VJH post-partum program since all women discharged
from the hospital who indicate an interest in family planning are referred
to a specific health center (most women discharged from VJH are residents
of the Kingston area). For these reasons the optimization of the Kingston
facilities is important to (a) securing maximum results from the VJH component
of the Bank's project and (b) recruiting the maximum number of acceptors
from this key population group regardless of their connection with the Bank
project.
2.        "Optimization" of FP resources means making the best use of (a)
the clinics and (b) staff.  From the standpoint of clinic users, the main
problem is to find that pattern of scheduling which, for the system as a
whole, is likely to make it convenient for the largest possible number of
women to visit clinics. The elements of travelling-time, of cost, and of
convenience (time-of-day) are of obvious importance; other less obvious
factors may be of equal or greater importance (e.g. variations by hot
months, wet months, holiday seasons, etc). Sample questionnaires, suit-
ably pre-tested, may be useful in identifying the relative importance of
various considerations. Once these considerations have been established
with greater confidence, it should be possible to work out alternative
schedules that would meet these population-criteria. However, there may
be difficulty in moving to such schedules because of (a) competing claims
on the use of facilities by the Ministry's general health services and (b)
inability to recruit personnel at times most wanted by the target population.
This constraint may be reducible by altering the composition of certain
sessional teams or by altering the functions customarily performed by doctors,
nurses, and midwives.
3.        The study would consist of three main parts:  (a) the development
of data about consumer preferences (to come from analysis of present use-
patterns and, especially, from the use of sample questionnaires); (b) study
of personnel recruitment problems, and (c) the construction of a simple model
to see what combinations of clinic schedules would provide the greatest use



ANNEX 10
Page 2
of the clinics combined with the personnel constraints.
4.        The study should begin with a base-line description of the present
schedules and number of visitors (patients) for all clinics (a simple table))
a review of the principles the NFPB has used in setting these schedules and of
the practical considerations limiting the achievement of "ideal" schedules;
and a check of the stability of each center's schedule over time (have they
been changed frequently or only quite rarely?). This base-line table should
show the number of FP patients (by weeks or by months?) for as long as
individual-clinic records now exist; this will suggest hypotheses as to
scheduling patterns (or other considerations) that may underlie heavy or
light utilization of particular clinics. The base-line study should also
establish present cost and utilization standards for each clinic on a unit
basis, (a) by dividing NFPB's sessional expenditures by the number of patients
seen (this should be done on a monthly basis for each clinic) and (b) by
dividing total patients seen each month by the number of clinic hours each
month to get a measure of number of patients seen per FP hours open. (These
two measures should of course correlate almost exactly.)
5.        After the present picture is well-established, sample questionnaire-
interview techniques should be used, separately, on (a) clinic visitors and
(b) clinic staffs to try to establish the preferences of these two groups
in terms of making maximum use of facilities. The findings of this part of
the study should suggest what adjustments, if any, might be made in existing
schedules if they are to be brought closer to an "ideal" schedule from the
viewpoint of serving patients. The schedules suggested by patient-preferences
will represent an "ideal" schedule if there were no staff or competing-use
constraints on the system.
6.        Having identified an "optimum" schedule from the "demand" side,
the study should then identify the limitations on implementing this schedule
from the point of view of (a) competing uses for the clinics at preferred
FP times and (b) the availability of key staff. The latter study will
probably require the analysis of NFPB sessional payroll data to see how
many doctors, trained nurses, nurses' assistants, sisters, midwives, and
clerks have been involved in the program; whether sessional teams tend to
act as i"teams" that stick together over fairly long periods (vs. frequent
new groupings for each session); whether there are noticeable differences
in the participation in F? work on the part of doctors, nurses, and midwives
(e.g. do doctors volunteer for FP work much less frequently than trained
nurses, reflecting greater difficulty in recruiting doctors?); interviews
with a representative sample of doctors and nurses might identify improved
ways of scheduling them (e.g. through the use of full-time mobile teams,
the greater use of evening hours in selected clinics, the staggering of
hours among different professional members of a FP session, etc.) The
purpose of this part of the study would be to look for ways of reducing
personnel-scheduling considerations as constraints on optimum clinic
scheduling.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
7.        A final part of the study would be the identification of feasible
changes in present schedules (assuming changes are found desirable). This
might include suggestions for experiments to see how possible it is to move
present schedules toward the "ideal" hours established by the study.
March 20, 1970



AINEX 1l
JAMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference for Study of Tasks Performed by Health Center
Personnel in Jamaica National Family Planning Program
1.        The organization of Jamaica Family Planning Program centers
on the use of medical teams drawn together for half-day "sessions" at
each of the country's 1h0 health centers (local clinics). These teams
normally consist of one doctor, one trained Public Health nurse, one mid-
wife or nurse's assistant, and a clerk. These are drawn from the local
area and their work in the Family Planning Program represents a special
assignment outside the members' regular employment and for which they
receive additional compensation for each session.
2.        Jamaica is seriously short of key professional medical personnel
needed to staff this program, especially doctors and trained nurses but
midwives are also short. In recent years there has been quite heavy emigra-
tion of both doctors and nurses. In late 1969 the Government was trying to
recruit additional doctors from the Far East.  Thus the ability to deliver
family planning services is already limited by a shortage of traditionally
qualified medical personnel; this situation is likely to get worse.  In
order to prevent these manpower shortages from becoming a more serious
bottleneck in the program, the Bank's appraisal mission in December 1969
proposed that a study be made of the possibilities of modifying some of
the procedures now used in the health centers, and in the allocation of
specific functions or tasks among the different members of the sessional
teams. The purpose of such a study would be to relieve fully-qualified
doctors and nurses of any tasks which might appropriately be performed by
others of lower professional aualifications. In other words, doctors may
not have to see as many acceptors as they are now seeing: some of the
specific functions which the fully-qualified doctors now perform may
possibly be done just as well by a nurse or by an interne; similarly
some of the functions now performed by nurses may be performed just as
well by assistant nurses, midwives or health educaQion officers.  If some
restructuring of these Family Planning tasks appears feasible then it should
be possible, taking the system as a whole, either to increase the number
of women seen by each doctor and nurse or, what amounts to the same thing,
operate at any given level with a somewhat smialler number of doctors and
nurses.
3.        The study will describe in detail both the sequence of specific
tasks norma1ly followed within each family planning session and the distribu-
tion of responsibility for performing each of these tasks among the various
members of the FP team. The study should begin by developing a detailed
description of the normal procedures and the standard tasks performed as
new patients, and re-visitors, move through a clinic (it might take a little



ANNEX 11
Page 2
longer to make a judgment as to whether or not most clinics do, in fact,
observe the "standard procedures" and to what extent sessional teams may
have worked out different arrangements - perhaps better, perhaps not -
for getting the work done).  The nain part of the study would consist of
(a) developing a proposed alternative allocation of work tasks and (b)
testing out the acceptability of these proposals among the professional
groups involved.
4.        The following points are likely to be important:
a. The judgment as to whether a particular function can or cannot
appropriately be transferred from a more to a less skilled person may often
depend on whether the latter is assumed to have been given specialized
training in the performance of the function in question. Thus judgments
will have to be made as to whether or not it would be feasible to run short-
term training courses to qualify lower skilled personnel to perform certain
specialized functions which may now be performed by higher qualified people.
b. There ray possibly be some legal problems as to specific functions
that may be performed by people with given professional qualifications. If
so, a judgment should be reached as to the seriousness of the problem and
of possible ways of solving it.
c. The most difficult part of the study may be the willingness of
leading personalities in the medical and nursing professions to accept any
recommendations which this study might put forward. At this stage there
is no reason to believe that sensible recommendations would be suspect and
unacceptable; but changes in traditional professional tasks are often
delicate.  However, an attempt to relieve people of routine tasks that can
be performed by less skilled personnel, there&y freeing professionals to
devote more of their time to tasks requiring the skills and judgment for
which they have been trained, should be welcomed, particularly under
conditions of severe professional shortages.
d. It might be acceptable to require medical students being trained
at public expense to give a period of service in the public health system
as a condition for receiving their medical degrees and becoming licensed
physicians. This service might be considered an extension of a young
doctor' s interneship, remunerated at the normal entry salary for Govern-
ment doctors. Part of this study would include examination of such a
change in the Government's education policy; this would require suitable
talks not only with senior officials in the M4inistry of Health but also
with people on the medical Faculty at U.W.I. and in the Jamaica Medical
Association. The same policy question would presumably be involved in
the training of other professionals; there may be a tactical judgment to
be made as to whether the question can be handled separately for doctors
(and perhaps nurses) without raising the same issue for all other professions.
The present study should limit itself to doctors and nurses alone except
as government policy for this group is felt inseparable from general policy
considerations.



AINY 11
Page 3
5.        A well-qualified person could carry out the kind of study pro-
posed in a relatively short time. Tt is hoped that the study can be done
by one or more Jamaicans.  If it proves necessary to engage a foreigner,
the study would require an initial period of about four to eight weeks in
Jamaica, followed by two or three weeks of report writing and perhaps an
additional two or three weeks on a second trip to Jamaica to discuss re-
actions to the proposals after they have been circulated. It is hoped that
the study could be conducted and the draft report written before the end
of 1970.
May 25, 1970



ANNEX 12
JUIAICA
POPUlATION PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference for Training Adviser to NFTB
1.        The National Family Planning Board needs to increase the amount
of attention given to the training of staff used in its program. Since
training is closely related to the Board's program, the Board should
probably appoint an Assistant Program Officer for Manpower and Training;
this implies that the senior staff member resoonsible for manpower planning
and training should be responsible to the Program Officer. However, the
long-term need for this position is not yet entirely clear, since the
Program Officer may be able to give adequate attention to manpower planning
and training once the program is more firmly established. For this reason
it is proposed that the post initially be established on a temporary basis
through the appointment of an Adviser.  This person may be either a Jamaican
or an expatriate but must be acceptable to the Bank. The term of the appoint-
ment should be approxdnately 18-24 months.
2.        The Adviser's functions would be to assist the NFPB (a) in ex-
panding the start already made with in-service training for program personnel
of all types, (b) in working closely with senior training officials in re-
lated organizations uhich look after the basic education and training of
personnel that will be used in the Family Planning program to make certain
that their basic training pays adequate attention to PP matters, and (c) in
establishing long-term arrangements for devoting adequate attention to the
planning of the prograrmi's manpower needs for all types of skills.
3.        The Adviser will concern himself with the training needs, for
fanily planning purposes only, of doctors, nurses, nurses' assistants and
sisters, midwives, health educators, Encouragement Visitors, and any other
recognized classes of program employees. It will be the Adviser's responsi-
bility to establish the need for specific in-service courses or other
types of training (e.g. demonstration sessions, exhibits, occasional films,
suggested readings, etc.)3 to develop the specific content of such courses;
and to arrange for speakers, teaching materials, course sites and schedules,
training budgets, etc. The Adviser should also be prepared to suggest
occasional foreign training for part-icular individuals.
4.        It shall also be part of the Adviser's responsibility to stimulate
the NFPB to insist on the expeditious carrying through of the present plans
to prepare sex education materials for use in the country's schools and to
see that these are introduced into the regular school curriculum. Progress
in preparing such materials, a joint responsibility of the Ministries of
Health and Education, has so far been disappointingly slow.
March 20, 1970



ANNEX 13
JAMAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Illustrative Terms of Reference for the Annual External Review
1.        The Government and the Bank have agreed that during the early
years of the FP program it would be desirable to have an expert outside
judgment on the program's general effectiveness.  The review, which will
be annual until the Bank's loan is fully disbursed, will consist of a
written report containing both statistics and narrative commentary. It
will not concern itself in any way with financial auditing, which will be
conducted independently, nor will its private report to the Government and
the Bank substitute for the published Annual Report which the 1970 statute
requires the NFPB to prepare.
2.        The Review Team will consist of two or three persons selected
by the Bank with the approval of the Government.  If desired by the borrower,
its costs may be financed from the loan funds.
3.        The following specific questions are intended to be illustrative
of those to which the Review Team would address itself; the specific ques-
tions to be included in the terms of reference of the initial team shall
be agreed among the Government, the Bank, and the Review Team at the time
of the latter's appointment about September 1, 1971.
a. Has the Program been able to generate an increasing number of
acceptors during the period under review?
b. 1Wlhat is the overall average cost of recruiting an acceptor? Is
this high, low, or medium by standards ^propriate to Jamaica?
Has the cost shown any significant tendency to increase or
decrease during the period?
c. What is the range of costs for recruiting acceptors at different
clinics? In which specific clinics are costs clearly high?
In which are they clearly low? (e.g. by taking the 20 most
costly and the 20 least costly).
i. 14ould the Team recommend any reduction of service at the
high-cost clinics and shifting funds to low-cost area?
Does it see any way of restructuring service in high-cost
areas to avoid these high costs?
d. Has the Board set clear targets for each Parish, clinic, and
Encouragement Visitor? (Prepare ratios of new acceptors to
targets for all clinics). Do these targets mean anything?
Is there any system of incentiive payments or prizes, plus



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Board commendation, for superior performance? Does the
Board investigate adequately Parishes and clinics where
performance is noticeably weak? 14hat specific corrective
actions have been taken?
e.  Is the Board's statistical system working reasonably well?
If not, what are the main difficulties and what can be done
to improve matters?
f.  T,,hat proportion of the Board's total budget is represented
by overhead costs (headquarters budget and expenditures vs.
field budget and expenditures)? Do these costs appear high,
average, or low -- measured in terms of manpower employed
and comparative salary levels and prerequisites.
g. How many times has the Board met during the period? What
are the main topics with which it has concerned itself?
What major policy decisions has it taken?
h. What have been the NFPB's priority tasks during the period?
Has the Board made significant progress in accomplishing
these tasks?
i. Has the Board made any study of continuation rates? If so,
what do they show?
j. Does the system of procuring and distributing supplies seem
to be working well? Are procurement costs reasonable and
is the supply-line kept full enough so that the Board avoids
the need to purchase "emergencyi' supplies at high cost on
the local market?
k. Does the Encouragement Visitor scheme seem to be working
effectively? Are they well supervised, given specific targets?
Has any attempt been made to terminate EV's who have not
proven productive (if so, how many have been terminated for
this reason?)
1.  Have the RMC's been well-received in their districts, as
measured by the numbers of deliveries in each? (Perhaps
visits to the two most and the two least productive will
reveal reasons for relative high and low utilization).
m. Does the "plan of operation" for the RMC's seem to be working
well, i.e. is there a well-understood policy for balancing
domiciliary and RMC midwifery services and for posting midwives
accordingly (since midwives are responsible to the Parish Councils,
the latter's views will be important, as will those of the local
1P'edical Officer for Health and the local Public Health Nurse)?
Howmany of the RHC's are operated as multi-purpose facilities
(deliveries, antenatal and post-natal clinics, plus family planning
clinics) an how many limit themselves to deliveries only? What has
been experience with operating costs -- significantly higher than
expected?



ANEX 13
Page 3
n. In the judgment of the PReview Team, what appears to be the
most serious problemts confronting the Board to whic.h it
should address its special attention during the next 12
months?
o. Have there been any noticeable shifts in the methods of contra-
ception during the year? Are there any obvious explanations?
p. Has the subject of sex education found its way into the school
curriculum? If so, how widely are such materials being used?
Do these seem to be well received?
q. How many Pap smears have been read? Nhat is the average
cost of having this work done (assuming this can be computed
fairly readily)?  What happens to the results of each reading --
are the results sent back fairly promptly -to the clinic sending
in the specimen and does the individual receive any written
or oral report of the result?
r. Has the NFPB paid adequate attention to training of staff
during the year? (List courses conducted, with dates, places,
and numbers participating; also any other training activities).
s. To what extent has the NFPB developed methods for continuously
evaluating the progress of the program and for identifying
needed improvements in order to increase the number of new
acceptors, to get unit costs down, to increase public under-
standing and acceptance, and to gain better understanding of
fundamental sociological and medical a.spects of the program?
(Presumably the answer to these questions will depend partly
on the Board's effort to improve its routine statistical
reporting, to analyze its own statistics and take remedial
action, and to develop effective cooperative/contractual
relationships with other institutions - public and private -
for conducting special studies).
t.  What relationships, if any, does the NTFPB have with private
agencies interested in family planning work?  Do these relation-
ships appear cordial and effective? Are there any changes which
you would recomnmend?
u. Does the program. seem to be held back by any serious shortages
of particular types of personnel?  If so, please identify the
particular shortages.
v. Has the NFPB developed an effective annual work-plan, outlining
targets, priority tasks, and expressed in a budget that permits
comparison of cost-targets with actual expenditures under each
major program or functional heading?  In short, do they have an



ANNEX 13
Page4
effective system of annual planning on both the program and
financial sides?
w. Have any senior staff members made any trips out of Jamaica
to observe the working of other family planning programs?
If so, who went where and what were the main impressions
brougght back?
x. Is there an effective system for giving family planning informa-
tion to women being delivered at the VJH? TAhat is the average
stay of such women and what is the specific procedure for counseling
them on family planning?  Eow many babies were delivered at the
hospital during the past 12 months? How many tubal ligations were
perfomred?
March 20, 1970



PROPOSED RURAL MATERNITY CENTERS
Port Moront
HoPeton
4 Friendship
r) Green Island~
6 C~IorkS To~wft
7 Mountainside
8 Elderlile
9   Moiton                                                                                                                                                                  JAMAICA
10   Wood Park              :                                            0                                                              f:
EXISTING FAQiLITIES (Dec. 1969)                                                L              E   T         R 
is Hopia                                                                                                                                                   POPULATION ~PROJECT
:*  H6eoth Centers                            :                                         10 _
A  Dispenscries                                           M                                              E              SL
MAY   9-                                                                                                                                                                                                               I B RD  2 798R
MAY 1 970



RETURN TO                                                            PP 2
M&6W46O ESK    -28-
TO BE  ETURNBNMiR.VQRTS DE K
ONE WEEK   vr. ONOIC XALYssS
6.01      Peoplels motives for wanting, or not wanting, children reflect
a complex set of personal, sociological, and economic considerations.  Popula-
tion projects make it possible for people who wish to control the number or
spacing of their children, to do so. This they do by preventing or post-
poning births that would otherwise occur. These decisions are entirely
voluntaryn each reelects a private iudgment that the advantages of not
having an additional child are greater than those of having one. Taken
individually, a decision to practice family planning has no measurable
effect on a nation's economy.  Taken collectively, however, such decisions
can have im-:ortant economic effects, as well as many more obvious social
benefits. Arong the latter, family planning programs may reduce the number
of induced aDortions, often unsafe and illegal. The close relation of family
planning to maternal and child health services normally means that FP programs
contribute to improved maternal and child health, including lower maternal
and infant mortality.  Fewer wormen are burdened with unwTanted babies.  These
are some of the undoubted welfare benefits accompanying FP programs.  As
for the purely economic effects, however, there is doubt in some minds
as to the role these should play in reaching an overall judgment on the
desirability of supporting population projects. An appraisal report cannot
answer this question. It can, however, apply to population projects the
same kind of econonic analysis that is used, wherever possible, in all Bank
projects so that those responsible for maI-ing decisions will Icnow what
the economic effects are likely to be regardless of the weight they may
choose to give them.
6.02      The notential economic effects of population projects are many
and varied.  They begin with the fact that fewer children mean a freeing
of private and public resources frorml child support.  The saving of resources
from averted births has implications for the following economic variables,
many of which are interrelated, i.e., the volume of savings, the level of
investment and the growth of the capital stock, the size of the future
labor force, total output, the average productivity of labor, the ratio
of dependents to producers, the growth of per ca-pita incomes and consumption,
and the size of the government budget. These are all classical questions
of economic analysis.  They are not, however, questions we norrally expect
a project cost-benefit analysis to answer. Cost-benefit analysis usually
limits itself to cormiparing the direct costs and benefits of a project on
the assumption that a favorable balance of benefits over costs will start
a chain of causality that will generate additional development outside the
project. But no attempt is made to measure how national income will grow
as a result of the project, and costs and benefits are not ordinarily ex-
pressed in per capita terms.
6.`3      It is possible to test population projects by the same cost-benefit
measures applied to Bank projects in other sectors. This can be done c1uite



- 29 -
simply and directly oby estimating the total amount of private and publIc
resource savings generated 'oy expenditures on the protect. These benefits
and costs can then be compared by constracting a conventional Benefit/Cost
ratio or an Internal Economic Return.  The results of doing this for the
VJH component of the project are reported in para. 6.07; they show the
project to be highly attractive when project costs and benefits are measured
as they are in other Bank projects.
6.04      However, population projects have one distinctive and very important
economic characteristic that penalizes them when costs and benefits are
treated as theyr are treated in other sectors, i.e. on an aggregate instead
of a per capita basis. In no other sector do projects directly affect the
number of people among whom future national income is to be shared. All
projects have a 'numerator effect  that contributes to higher per capita
incomes but only population projects have both a "numerator effect! and
a "denominator effect.' The economic significance of this fact can be
measured only by carrying out the cost-benefit analysis on a per capita
basis. TVhen this is done, however, thlie results lose their strict comparability
with other Batik projects. in this project (and presumably in other population
projects as well) the denominator effect' makes a far stronger contribution
to rising per ca-ita incomes than the "numerator effect."
O.o5      A good case can be made t3hat all cost-benefit tests ought to be
based on per capita values, since a prima.y economic purpose of development
is an increase in per capita incomes and welfare.  If this were done, all
projects would score somewhat lower marks, simply because per capita measures
Would reflect uhe fact that future benefits would be spread over a rising
population. But the test scores of population projects would not be reduced
as much as those of other protects, because of their direct effect on popula-
tion growth. There is no likelihood that the traditional use of aggregate
cost-benefit measures, and the standarcs of judgment based on them, will be
abandoned in favor of per capita tests.  But it must be emphasized that
when population projects are tested winth aggregate values to preserve
comiparability with projects in other sectors this leaves entirely out of
account the most distinctive economic effect which such projects produce,
namely, their direct contribution to the raising of per capita incomes
through the slowing of population growth. (Annex 9 describes a methodology
for putting the anan-rsis on a per capita basis.)
I ()O*-  A difficult analytical problem arises from the possibility that
population projects, because they slow down the growth of the potential
labor force, may involve some loss of future output.l/  The significance
1/' This is a matter of concern only when the calculations are done on an
aggregate basis! when done on a per capita basis the problem disappears.
This reflects the effect of slower po-pulation growth in raising the
per capita productivity of the labor force and in reducing the dependency
ratio (i.e. a higher proportion of total population is in the labor force)
Both these effects will lead to higher per canita incomes even if there
should be scne loss of total output.



- 30 -
of this loss depends on its size and the probabilityr of its occurrence.
For various reasons, any potential loss of future output arising from
Jamaica's F? program appears small in absolute amount, distant in time,
and uncertain to occur.  The dorinant reason for believing this loss will
be insignificant is that the program's influence on the future labor force
will be marginal:  in 30 years the population is expected to be about 15,'
smaller than it would otherw7ise have been (the Bamnk project would account
for perhaps one-quartar of this overall result). How large the labor force
might be at that time will depend on the labor-force participation rate
as well as on population size.  'lso, a slower-growling labor force should
help to reduce the burden of Jamaica's chronic unemployment, which govern-
ment planners fear will continue. Finallyr, the potential 'Loss of future
production would be offset, partially or completely, by the increase in
output made possiole by the reinvestment of part of the resources freed.
The cost-benefit method used to calculate the project's test scores (para.
6.07) does not tak.e into account either the cost of any future production
loss or the benefit of reinvestment effects (Annex 9, however, does deal
wzith this problerni see para. 39 ff.).
6.07      To simplify the analysis the quantitative testing of the present
project has been limited to the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJT{) component,
which accounts for twzo-thirds of total pro.ect cost.  Ihe VJH shows a
Benefit/Cost ratio of 4L5:1.  This ratio is a comparison of the present
value of the project benefits and of its capital and operating costs using
a discount rate of 10~,6 (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Jamaica) andc running out costs and benefits to the year 2000.  Using a
different test, the VJH shows an Internal Economic Return of 27%.  These
tests are based on aggregate benefits and costs, i.e. without converting
them to a per cap)ita basis. Both tests show the VJH component to be a
highly attractive use of economic resources. Details of the analysis are
given in Annex 9. An application to the Rural Maternity Centers of the co-
efficients derived from the VJH component suggests that they too will have
acceptable econoric results, although not as favorable as those of the
hospital.
6.08      The calculations for the VJH begi-n with an estimate of the number
of averted births generated by the post-partuni :FP program to be conducted
at the hospital.  'lo makce such an estimate, the following values rmust be
fixed:  (I) the number of women who will use the hospital, (2) the number
of these who will adopt family planning methods as a result of the hospital's
post-partum program, and (3) the number ol additional children they would
have had if they did, and if they did not, accept fanil-y planning.  The
difference boetween the last two figures represents "births averted."
6.09      The rationale for each of the estimates is described in Annex 9.
The number of children born in the VJH is expected to remain at 15,000 a
year (the total number of Jamaican births is expected to decline, but the
proportion of national boirths taking place in the Victoria Jubilee Hospital



- 31 -
is expected to increase). On the basis of international experience, it is
expected that about 25 of the women using the hospital will accept some
method of family planning as a result of the post-partum program. Using
available Jamaican data on the expected age and fertility of acceptors,
supplemented by experience elsewhere, the number of births averted each
year as a result of the VJH program alone is estimated to rise from 620 in
1975 to 3500 by 1980 (See Annex 9, Table 4). Although it might be expected
that some falling-off in numbers would occur after those initially most
eager for family planning had been reached, this may in fact not happen.
It is striking that the most effective of recent post-partum programs in
a wide variety of countries are in metropolitan hospitals in the United
States. It has therefore been assumed that the number of births averted
will remain at 3500 a year until the year 2000, the final year in the
analysis.
6.10      Having estimated the benefit or "output" of the VJH (number of
births averted) it remains to calculate the economic value of this output
and to compare these benefits with Droject costs.  The benefit stream consists
of (1) private cost-savings represented by the avoided costs of child-
rearing, plus (2) savings to government represented primarily by avoided
costs of health services and social security subsidies and, especially,
avoided costs for education. The total of (1) and (2) are the total
resources freed; they constitute the benefit-stream of the VJH ccmponent
(see Annex 9, paras. 29-34 and, especially, Table 6). The relevant cost-
stream is made up of the hospital's capital costs plus the increase in
its operating costs with and without the project (the increases in operating
costs are shown in column 5 of Table 6). It is these benefit and cost
values that yield the results reported in para. 6.07.
6.11      The effect of the VJH component on per capita incomes can be
measured in different ways. Annex 9 presents one method, based on various
assumptions about the growth of national income and of population, with
and without the project,  National income is estimated to grow somewhat
faster as a result of the project because of the reinvestment of part of
both the private and public savingsl/ (in the Jamaican case, any potential
loss of future output is considered insignificant).  An estimate has also
been made of the contribution made by the VJH to the slowing down of
population growth) this effect turns out to have a much stronger influence
on the growth of per capita incomes than the project's effect on speeding
up the growth of national income (see Annex 9, Table 11). These projections
of income and population-size with and without the VJH can then be combined
1/ Exactly simrilar effects would follow from any cost-saving project,
although, as noted, the Banl does not normally try to measure this
effect since there is no reason to expect differences among projects
on this point.



- 32 -
to derive a stream of increases in per capita income attributable to this
component of the project (Annex 9, Table 12).1/ The per capita increases in
income in 7able 12, rising to more than J: 9.0 in 1985 and to over J$ 40.0
in 2000, can be compared with the per capita costs of J$ 1.2. There are
technical objections to deriving from this stream any cost-benefit measure
that can be compared -with those constructed for other projects which do
not put benefits on a per capita basis. NIevertheless, it is obvious by
inspection that benefits are far higher than costs. The increases in
per capita income would pay back per capita investment costs within about
3;2 years after the VJH is completed.
6.12      An important asoect of the hospitaI's economic impact is future
savings on the government budget (see Annex 9, p. 15). During its first
decade the project does not free any public resources; on the contrary,
it inooseo add,tional costs.  In the early years, the only resources saved
are the private family costs of child support. Beginning in the early
1980's, however, savings on the government budget begin to exceed the extra
costs of the FP prograr. These savings show up initially in health services
but are soon exceeded by savings in education expenditures.  Twenty years
from now the savings on the government budget will exceed the private savings
of families in which births have been averted. By the year 2000 the VJH
alone will be saving an amount equal to approximately two-thirds of the
Ministry of Health's present budget; the budgetary impact of the total FP
program will be substantially greater.
1/  The rigorous but rather complex nethod for estimating the project's
effect in increasing national income may not become the standard method
for measuring per capita benefits in all future Bank population projects.
zqipler methods may suffice once we have a more confident understanding
of the relative importance of the main influences at work.



ANNEX 9
JA1iAICA
POPULATION PROJECT
Methodology and Assumptions Used In The Cost-Benefit Analysis-/
1.        The purpose of this annex is to explain both the general methodology
and the specific assu.mtions used in working out the project's economic justi-
fication. This justification rests entirely on the project's contribution
to raising per capita incomes; however, the project will produce other benefits
of a welfare nature that cannot be quantified and which therefore cannot
be taken into account (e.g., the elimination of overcrowding at the VJH,
improved working conditions for medical staff, and greatly improved teaching
facilities for midwifery training). The formal justification has been
done only for the VJH component of the project, which accounts for about
801 of project costs and benefits.  The results can be applied to other
parts of the project (notably the 10 PHMC's) to derive an approximate measure
of the economic attractiveness of that part of the project.
2.        As indicated, the economic benefits of the project consist of its
contribution to increasing future per capita income throughout the country.
It is therefore necessary to estimate how Jamaican per capita incomes would
grow in the future both with and without the project.
3.        The estimation of per capita incomes with and without the project
involves a fairly intricate set of calculations involving the cumulative
interaction of common economic variables over several years (our basic time-
horizon stops at the year 2000). The main steps in the argument are the
f'ollowing
i.  fn averted birth raises per capita income above what it would
otherwise be in the inrediate family.  This is the "immediate
fainily effect.
1/  An algebraic formulation of this methodology is available in a Wqorking
Paper available from the Bank's Economics Department. It is entitled,
"The Measurement of the Economic Benefits From Family Planning Projects
and Programs," by Timothy King (Ec. Dept. Yorking Paper No. 71, MIarch 23,
1970).



ANOEX, 9
Page 2
ii. Families with higher per capita incomes tend to save more
than those with lower per capita incomes.  ,o there is some
small increase in savings (voluntary or involuntary, through
taxation) in families that experience higher per capita
incomes as a result of family planning. This is the "private
savings effect."
iii. The fact that population is now lower than it would otherwise
be reduces pressure on govermnent to provide certain public
services, notably education and health. Thus an averted birth
also generates a "public savings effect."
iv. Any increase in savings permits a corresponding increase in
investment without inflation. ITe assume that this occurs,
either as private or public capital formation. This is the
"investment effect."
v. Higher investment leads to higher output and incomes. This
is the '9income effect."
vi. The achievement of a population lower than it would otherwise
be, and a national income higher than it would otherwise be,
means that per capita incomes throughout the society (not
merely in the original family) will be higher-than-otherwise,
for twfo reasons. This is thel er capita income effect." It
is this effect, measured annually in Jamaican dollars, that
constitutes the economic benefits of the project.
The remainder of the annex is concerned with working out these steps in
quantitative terms. The starting point is to construct an estimate of the
number of averted births attributable to the VJH part of the project?
ironically, "averted births" are in fact the "output" of the Hospital, in
economic terms, and their number is a key figure in estimating how much
more rapidly per capita incomes will grow as a result of the project.
Over half the annex is taken up with arriving at this figure for "averted
births" produced by the VJH.
The 'Output" of the Victoria Jubilee Hospital
14.       To calculate the number of births that will be averted as a result
of the project, we need three steps:
1.  To estimate the number of women who wTill use the hospital.
2.  To estimate the number of these who will accept family
planning and to predict which methods they will choose.
3. To estimate the number of births that will be averted
as a result of this degree of acceptance of family
planning.



Page 3
The Demand for the Services of the VJH;
5.        To estimate this, we require an estimate of -
1. The number of births in Jamaica.
2. The proportion of these that will take place in the VJH.
The Number of Births in Jamaica
6.        No one is able to estimate the demand for maternity services with
any precision.  Fertility changes (i.e. changes in the number of births
per 1,000 population) are largely unpredictable in any society. For most
purposes for which population projections are used there is a lag between
changes in fertility and significant changes in whatever one wishes to
predict.  For exanple, it will be at least 15 years before a change in
fertility will affect the labor force (except perhaps through its effects
on the working habits of married women) and it will be 65 years before
the fertility change will have worked its way through the entire labor
force. The future size of the labor force can therefore be predicted
with confidence for many years. A shorter but still definite lag affects
the size of the school-age population. But the demand for maternity serv-
ices is affected instantaneously by changes in fertility.
7.        Even in developed countries with much lower blrth rates, at
various periods during the last forty years fertility changes (a percentage
concept) have been large enough to have a marked effect on the absolute
num.ber of births. In Jamaica, there is every reason to expect fertility
changes in the future greater than those experienced in high-income countries.
There is evidence of a marked drop in fertility since 1965. In addition,
the bulk of recent emigration, which jumped sharply after U.S. immigration
quotas were removed in December 1965, has been of females of reproductive
age.  From a net emigration of S,500 in 1965 and 8,900 in 1966 the total
reached 20,000 in 1967 and was about the sarne level in 1968.  New restrictiocs
cane into force in 1968, with a small recent relaxation on the migration
of Jamaican domestic servants to the U.S.  It is very difficult to even
guess at the probable magnitude of this flow during the 1970's and 1980's.
The combined effect of emigration and fertility changes on the number of
births in Jamaica has been great.  Had the 1965 fertility and the pre-1905
pattern of migration remained in force there would have been about 75,000
births in 1968 instead of 65,o0o.
8.        Details of the changes in age-specific fertility rates that have
brought about the fall in fertility are not available; no population
projections have yet been able to take these into account. The projections
used by the Central Planning Unit of the HIinistry of Finance assume some
fall in fertility, and also in mortality, but at a slower rate on both counts
than recently experienced. These projections also assume that net emigra-
tion will be 15,000 annually, with approximately the same age-sex composition



AINX $
Page 4
as that recently experienced. This leads to a projected birth rate of
29.0 in 1930 and 26.7 in 1985, and the absolute number of births reaching
a low of about 65,000 in 1975 and rising to about 68,000 in the early
1980's.  The U.N. "medium"  projection of the Jamaican population gives
similar results though on the basis of a slightly different set of
assumptions with migration averaging 15,000 a year until 1975 and 20,000
thereafter.
9.        There is good reason to believe that these birth-figures are too
high, particularly if tlhe project is carried out. The Government's target
for the family planning program was originally to bring the birth rate down
to 25/1000 in 1976. The first Bank mission thought that it should be possible
to reach such a figure sooner. If accomplished by 1975 this would reduce
the number of births to 53-54,000 (on the emigration assumptions described
above). No official targets exist for later years, although the Director
of the National Family Planning Board indicated the hope that crude birth
rates might fall below 20 by 1980. This does, however, imply a very consider-,
able reduction in fertility. The proportion of women of child bearing age
in the population will in 1980 be exceptionally high as the result of high
and rising birth rates in the late 1950's, while the reduction after 1966
will have had no effect. A crude birth rate of 20 in 1980 would imply a
gross reproduction rate of 1.3, well below the level of many developed
countries.(The United States has not had so low a level since 1942). 'While
not unlikely in the long run, it will be very remarkable indeed to achieve
it by 1980.
10.       On the other hand, it is quite likely that the estimates for net
emigration will prove to be on the high side. The climate of opinion in
the U.S. and elsewhere is not moving in favor of international migration,
and the more political attention that the poverty problem receives, the
less are unslilled emigrants likely to be welcomed.  Servants for private
households have accounted for over one-third of recent Jamaican emigration
into the U.S., while "professional and technical"! workers have only been
about 10-13 percent. Emigration has a significant effect on the numbers
of births. Assuming no migration after 1965 but the same decline in fertilit.y
as projected boy the Central Planning Unit, the total number of births woulu
be 83,000 in 1985 instead of 68,COO. There has already been post-1965
emigration, of course, but this gives a striking illustration of the importance
of emigration.
11.       Table 1 shows our own projection based on a fertility that declines
to that of presently developed countries by the end of the century, and whic:i
achieves a crude birth rate of 25 by the year 1975.  The emigration assumpt ,n.
are those made by the Central Planning Unit up to 1980. After 1980, total
emigration remains at 15,000 but equal numbers of men and women are assumed
to emigrate.  It is interesting to note that while fertility declines continu-
ously, the crude birth rate rises after 1975 and does not fall below its
1975 level for another 10 years. This is a striking illustration of the
dangers of expressing family planning targets in terms of crude birth rates
rather than in terns of reproduction rates.



ANNEY 9
Page 5
12.       These figures are based on what seems probable in the light of
existing family planning program and suggested im.provements, including
the VJH.
Table 1 A projection of certain demographic measures
selected years, 1970-2000
Gross Reproduction    No. of Births       Total Population    Crude Birth
Pate               ('000)              ('000)              Pate
1970             2.h9               64.0                 1998               32.0
1975            1.79                p3.7                 2154               24.9
1980             1.60               61.4                 2305               26.6
1985            1.h5                62.3                 2461               25 3
1990            1.33                60.9                 2609               23.3
1995            1.25                 58.o                2741               21.1
2000            1.20                5.0                 2852               19.3
Note: Assumptions are described in text.
13.       In sum, the number of Jamaican births over the foreseeable future
is likely to be between 50,000 and 80,000 and, unless both the family planning
program gives disappointing results and emigration is greatly reduced, it
should be nearer the lower than the higher figure.
The Proportion of Births Taking Dlace in the VJH
14.       This is a function of two things:
1) The proportion of Jamaican births that take place in
Kingston and the parts of the Parish of St. Andrew
immaediately adjacent (i.e. the Corporate area)
2)  The proportion of these births that take place in the VJIi.
In recent years the births in the Parishes of Kingston and St. Andrew have
been a little over one-third of the island's total, and this proportion has
been rising (See Table 2)  The data do not distinguish births in the rural
parts of St. Andrew- from those in the Corporate area, but the former are
probably insignificant. The proportion of Corporate area births occurring
in the VJH has fluctuated around two-thirds, with no clear trend.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Table 2
Number of Births                          Births in the VJH
Number    in the Parishes               Number of    as % of those
of Births  of Kingston and               Births in    in Kingston &
Year    in Jamaica    St. Andrews       Percent    the VJH      St. Andrews
1964     69,266          23,126          33.4      15,000           64.9
1965     69,768          23,352          33.5      14,590           62.5
1966     71,364          24,28ht         34.0      15,312           63.0
1907     67,438          23,211          3h.4      16,018           69.0
1968     65,402          22,0o6          3h.6      14,889           65.9
SDource: M4inistry of Health
15.       The rising trend in the proportion of Jamaican births in the
Corporate area reflects the internal migration into the area.  This has
been observed for many decades and shows no sign of abating. The migrants
are young - predominantly between the age of 15 and 30.1/ This, together
iith the fact that some women from other parishes may come to Kingston to
give birth, explains the fact that the proportion of Jamaican births in
the Corporate area is significantly higher than the proportion of the
Jamaican population there.2/ In the long run over the next few decades,
the proportion should rise well above 35 percent, perhaps even to 40 percent.
16.       It is not easy to explain the trend in the proportion of Corporate
area births that take place in the VJH. The VJH's clients come from the
lower income groups of Kingston, and those who can pay for private hospital
treatment would clearly prefer to do so, in view of the overcrowding in the
Hospital. A booking system operates, and is used by about 90 percent of
patients, although often not until quite late in pregnancy. A fee of 3 gns.
(US$8) plus 2/- (US 24 cents) for each antenatal visit is usually charged
for the whole course of maternity services.  The booking system offers the
1/  Ka'man Tekse, Internal Higration in Jamaica (Kingston:  Department of
Statistics, 1967) p. 18-19.
2/ The estimated proportion of the Jamaican population living in the Parishe-'
of Kingston and St. Andrews rose from 27.0 percent in 1953 to 28.0 in
1968.



AMT1I 9
Page 7
only scope that the hospital has for limiting the number of its patients.
It can refer those living in the vicinlty of Corporate area health centres
that operat'e a hlorie delivery service to those clinics.  However, in 1968
ouch patients n'umbered only 658, eauivalent to 4.4 .percent of the actual
number of VJH deliveries. Other patients, whose homes are subsequently
found suitable, may be delivered by the VJH's own home delivery service.
There were 345 home deliveries in 1968, 2.3 percent of the VJH deliveries.
If pressure on hospital facilities were reduced the hospital would maintain
its oTn home delivery sexvice, since this formis an essential part of the
midwiferyj training it conducts, but would be able to take those referred
elsewhere. Iti is not clear, however, quite what effect this would have,
since it is not known how many of those referred to Corporate area clinics
turn up at the hospital in labor - and cannot then be turned away.  Neverthe-
less, the fact that women are referred elsewhere is one reason for expecting
the proportion of Corporate area births taking place in the VJH to rise.
17.       Another reason is that we should expect improved conditions in
the VJH to attract women vwho now make other, more costly, arrangements in
order to avoid the overcrowding. It is impossible to know how important
this is. But taking the two factors together wTe should expect the proportion
of Corporate area births delivered in the VJH to rise to over 70 percent
and quite possibliy to over 75 percent. If this proportion were achieved,
and Corporate area births rose to 35 percent of the total, the hospital
would deliver 26 percent of Jamaican births.  If Corporate area births rose
to 40 percent of the total, the hospital would deliver 30 percent of Jamaican
births.
18.       The higher percentage of Jamaican births delivered in the VJH
combined iith the lower absolute numbers of these births suggests that
the future number of deliveries wrill probably not be very different from
those taking place now or about 15,0G0 a year.  Fifteen thousand is 25 percent
of 60,000 which is in the middle of the probable range of future Jamaica
births. The same figure is 30 percent of 50,000 if dramatic but plausible
falls in the birth rate accompanied by extensive migration do take place,
and this is also a very possible estimate, though if only 50,000 births
do take place, it is probable that the number of VJX deliveries will fall
somewhat below 15,000. At the other extreme, `0 percent of 75,000 oirths
would be 22,500.
19.       The extensions to the hospital have been chosen to be of such a
size that they can optimally take the present number of deliveries but could
expand these, even to over 20,000, without incurring existing overcrowding
and so jeopardizing the -oost-partun program. Central to the post-partum
program is the opportunity for a woman to stay much longer in hospital than
at present - which is often less than 24 hours.  Two hundred and four lying-in
beds  Ill allow 15,000 patients to stay at least 4 days. Even with 22,500
the average stay could be about 3 days and this would allow time to provide
adequate post-partum family planning counselling.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
20.       If the number of deliveries does fal' permanently below 15,000,
we need not worry that the facilities will not be fully used. The VJH
could very readily take gynecological patients from the nearby Kingston
Public Hospital. Fifteen thousand deliveries, however, seem to us a likely
single figure, and we propose to use it for the remainder of this analysis.
The Effect of the Post-Partum Progran on the Number of Births
21.       For simplicity, we shall assume that 15,0CO deliveries means
that there are 15,C00 women who can be potentially reached through the
hospital's post-partum program.  This is not, of course, strictly true,
since a little over 1 percent of deliveries will be multiple deliveries,
but this reduction in the number of patients is more than offset by
abortion cases, who can often also oe reached by the family planning
program. W,1e now have to estimate the proportion of these 15,000 women
who accept some form of family planning, the particular type accepted,
and the fertility characteristics of the acceptors. At each step a
number of alternative assumptions can be made, and the range of possi-
bilities of outcomes is therefore quite wide. In making the estimates,
however, we shall try to use single-valued figures of a fairly conserva-
tive nature, drawn both from Jamaican data, where available, and from
international experience.
22.       The experience of the Population Council with a large-scale
post-partum program in 25 hospitals in 14 countries suggests that the
proportion of the women admitted to hospital for total obstetrical cases
who then accept family planning can vary from 5 - 76%.-/  From this wide range,
the first Bank mission adopted 25% as its expectation, and we shall do the
same.  Since July 1969, an attenpt has been made to start a post-partum
program in a corridor of the hospital. The first month's results are not
yet fully in, and contact with the patients has been difficult because of
overcrowding, but the response indicates that there is every hope that
initially 25,c can be exceeded.  One would probably expect that as the
proportion of women with knowledge of family planning in the Jamaican
population increases in time, the ratio of acceptors to patients would
decline but this may well not be so. The highest percentage of acceptors
in the hospitals covered by the Population Council's program were in the
United States. Ttqenty-five percent of 15,qOO women is 3,750 and this will
be the annual number of acceptors taken.
23.       WThat sort of family planning methods will these 3,750 women adopt?
About 7010 of acceptors in the Jamaica family planning program use pills, and
I/ "International Postpartum Family Planning Programs Report on First Year"
Studies in Family Planning, August 1967, p. 12.



AMNEX 9
Page 9
about 15% IJD's. There is, however, a large unsatisfied demand for tubal
ligations. All the women discharged from the hospital during one week in
February 1969 (276) were asked -whether they wTould be willing to undergo
tubal ligation. Two-thirds (184) said that they would. This is a staggeringly
high figure, and nothing like that would possibly occur in practice. lWith
the facilities planned, however, Dr. lWilliams, the Senior Mledical Officer of
the VJH, expects to be able to do 1200 tubal ligations a year, and there
is clearly cause to expect that number of patients.!/ On the basis of an
annual number of acceptors of 3750 we would then expect 2550 women to accept
other methods of contraception. Some of this latter group of women will
accept family planning methods soon after delivery, but will stop using
them by the time the period of post-partum sterility is over. Based on
the fact that the International Post-partum Study found that 7% had stopped
using contraception by 6 months, and that we shall assume the average period
of post-partum  sterility to be 9 months, we shall take this dropout rate
to be 10%.  In other words, 2295 women each year will be effectuive users
of contraception, other than those who havre undergone tubal ligation.
There is a further dropout rate over time. Based on international experi-
ence we would expect roughly 60% of these 2295 to be still using contra-
ceptives at the end of one year, 40% at the end of 2 years, 20% at the end
of 3 years and 10%Q at the end of 4 years.
2h.       To calculate the number of births that would be averted by this
degree of use of contraceDtion we need both the age of the acceptors, and
their assumed fertility if they were not practicing contraception.  The age
specific fertility rates we assume are derived by multiplying the 1965 age
specific fertility rates for Jamaica by a coefficient to measure the multiple
by which the fertility of women in a post-partum program is assumed to exceed
the average of all women in that age group.1/  The rates assumed are shown
in Table 3.  It is also assumed that the fertility rates apply both to those
with tubal ligations and contraceptives.  It is unlikely that the age
distribution of the two groups will be the same howiever.  For the contra-
ceptive-users we assume the age distribution observed for acceptors in the
Jamaican family planning program in 1968 (see Table 2). Those undergoing
tubal ligations are likely to be older. The survey at the VJH, however,
indicated a surprisingly young age distribution.  The international Postpartum
Family Planning Program, found a slightly older age distribution, which we
1/ At least, initially.  A modification is later made to this assumption.
2/ This coefficient was derived from data in Lee and Isbister 'The Impact of
Birth Control Programs on Fertility" - in Berelson et al, Family Planning
and Population Programs, (ed) (Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1966), pp. 737-758.



ATNE'r 9
Page 10
Table 3
Age Distribution of  Acceptors and Assumed Fertilit
in the Absence of the Program
Percent of Acceptors                 Assumed Fertility
WJomen        Women with             If Not Acceptors
using contra-    tubal li-              (Annual births per
Age group           ception         gations                  1000 women)
15-19                  8.0             _                         536
20-2b                 29.0            25.7                       53 
25-29                 28.0           46.3                        358
30-34                 19.0            20.6                       299
35-39                 11.0            6.4                        228
40-44                  4.0             1.0                        76
145-49                 1.0              _                         13
100.0          100.0
Source: See text.
shall use instead, as more likely to prevail in the long run.!/ (We shall
make one rmnor adjustment to it, by assuming that tubal ligations are not
carried out on girls under the age of 20 and amalganate this group with
those aged 20-24).
25.      I:We assume that a woran practicing contraception retains the fertility
of her age cohort at the time of acceptance for the period she continues to
use contraception.  From kmowing how many women will be practicing contra-
ception in each period of time, and their age distribution and their assumed
fertility in the absence of contraceptive use, we have calculated the number
of births that would be averted from an annual number of 2550 women accepting
contraception in a post-partum program (See Table 3).
26.       The same approach is followed for those women iith tubal ligations.
A problem however results if this procedure is strictly adopted: given the
1/ Even this assumption gives extremely high results, as we discuss below.



ANMI E t
Page 11
assumed age distribution and the high fertility rates of women expected
to have tubal ligations, the number of births averted per woman is about
4. This is a very high number indeed, and if the program. continued
for many years at a rate of 1200 women a year, eventually the number of
births averted from this part of -the program alone would be 4800 per year -
which would significantly reduce the demand for hospital services, and,
no doubt, the eventual number of women wishing to be sterilized. In conse-
quence we assume that after a while the number being sterilized falls,
their age distribution becomes older and their fertility drops (implying
that in the absence of sterilization they would have used some other nethod
of contraception) and that the number of births averted as a result of
the tubal ligation prograrmi levels off at 2000. The consequent number of
births averted is shown in Table 4.
Table 4
Births Averted as the Result of the Post-partum Program
Births Averted
as a Result of            Births Averted            Total
the Use of                from Tubal                Births
Year          Contraception             Ligations                 Averted
1975               274                        343                    620
1976               826                       774                    1600
1977              1181                      1188                     2370
1978              1365                      1575                     2940
1979              145L4                     1938                    31400
1980              11468                     2032                     3500
Each year after
1980              11469                      2032                    3500
Source:  See text.
27.      lNo allowance is made for mortality at any stage of these or subse-
quent estimates.  For example, the calculation concerning births averted
as a result of tubal ligationsmakesno allowance that the women might die
before reaching the end of child bearing age. The probability of her doing
so, and the approrimation required, is therefore not great in comparison
with the margin of possible error in our other assumptions. Similarly we
later make the assumption that the child whose birth we have averted would
have lived to enter the labor force, although strictly soeaking we should
apply adjustment to represent the fact that, say, 2.5% of them would die
before the age of 1, 1.5 more before they enter school and so on.



ANNEX 9
Page 12
Economic Evaluation of the Costs and Benefits of the Project
28.       3enefits from the reductiop in the number of births stem from
the increase in per capita income.!' This increase results from two causes.
First, part of the resources that would have been used to support children
whose birth is now averted are saved and iniested. The capital stoclc and
therefore output increase. Secondly, because the population is now smaller
than otherwise, any given national income will provide alargerthan otherwise
per capita income.  The method of calculating the benefit that we shall
adopt involves treating each of these tw-o elements separately. First, we
estimate the effect of the project on aggregate national income, and then
use this to calculate the effect on per capita income. We then have a stream
of per capita benefits to compare with per capita project costs.
The Effect of the Project on Aggregate National Income
a.  Resourcesfreed from child support
29.       Table 5 summarizes the estimated support costs, in 1970 prices,
of a child born in 1975 to a mother of the socio-economic class using the
VJH.
30.       The costs saved to the child's family were derived from two publica--
tions of the Departnent of Sta-tistics, E cenditure Patterns of lWorking Class
Households, (based on the 1963-64 .Household Expenditure Survey) (1967) and
A 3urvey of Housing Conditions in Trench Town, ;leptember 1907 (1968).  Trench
Town is a working class area of Kingston, akin to the areas from which most
of the VJH's patients come. The median income of families with 5 - 7 persons
in these areas was JX6 8 - 12 per week. From the expenditure survey it appeared
that such a family would spend about J;7 a week on food and J$I .50 a week
on clothing. On the assumptions that: a) the median-size family of acceptors
consisted of two adults and 3 children (with 2 children under 5), b) that
it spent an additional 800 a week on child-related consiuption (e.g. higher
rent to provide extra space, and food), and c) that the consumption of a
child 0-4 is half that of older children and adults, we estimate the cost
of a child to be J-l a wieek for its first 5 years and Jr2 subsequently.
The cost of children is assumed to remain constant - i.e. even if incomes
and standards rise and more is spent per child this is not taken to imply
a rise in the minimum necessary expenditure per child.
1/ Economic purists might prefer us to relate wTelfare gains to increases
in per capita consumption.  It is simple to adjust the analysis below
to do this, and to apply, if cesired, to the consumption stream a
discount rate different from the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
(Some measure w^Tould also have to be attached to the terminal capital
stock, of course.)



ANNEX 9
Page 13
31.       The child goes to school sometime after its sixth birthday - those
born in 1975 would go at the beginning of the 1981-82 school year. (For
simplicity all the educational costs of this year are assumed to fall in
1982 and all the children are then assumed to be at school). Sixty-five
percent of the children leave school sometime after their fifteenth birthday -
here they are assumed to leave in 1991. They then cease to be supported
by their families. W.Te shall discuss in a later section the economic conse-
quence of the fact that averting births now implies a smaller entry to the
labor force in 15 years' time. Thirty-five percent (a long-term target,
but not unrealistic for the 1990's) continue at school.  Many of these will
drop out after a further year, others will stay 3 years. For simplicity
all 35 wiere assumed to stay 2 years, and to rernain dependent on their
families for that oeriod.
32.       Health expenditures were reached by extrapolating existing levels.
In 1968/69 expenditures per head were Jt$14.72.  It was assumed that the
real per capita costs of these would rise by 3% a year.  This was assumed
to be the average increase in productivity in the econorimy, but since no
productivity increases can be expected from most workers in the health
sector, who nevertheless need rising incomes to stay in the sector, costs
here will rise.  They may not rise by the full 3% per year, but it is in
addition likely that the standards may improve (e.g. theremay be more
doctors per 1000 population). A similar assumption is made for the recurrent
costs of running the expanded VJH, and for the recurrent costs of education
for teacher training, (but not for school building since productivity of
the building industry is assumed to keep pace with average productivity.)
TNo attermt was made to allocate health expenditure among people of different
ages.
33.       The educational costs wiere obtained after discussion with officials
of the Iiinistry of Education. It was assumed that because it was likely
that children entering primary school would be less than those leaving it
oy the late 1970's and attendance will approach 100i, a child born in 1975
makes no new demand for additional primary classroom space or teaching
capacity, and that the normal replacement expenditures are unaffected. It
is assumed, however, that the expansion of secondary education, where
enrollment is at present far below 1005, at both lower and upper levels,
will be still in progress in the 1900's and 1990's, and that additional
children entail more building and more teacher-training.  Half of the 35%
who continue with education after the age of 15 are assumed to go to
academic schools, and half are assumed to go to technical and vocational
schools.
34.       Having estiraated the resources freed by the averting of a birth
in 1975, these wiere multiplied by the number of births to be averted in
that year. A similar procedure was adoptued for the births averted in later
years. This was then sumed by the year in which the resources were freed.
The results are shown in Table 6. Table 6 also shows the recurrent costs
of running the expanded hospital plus the post-partuai family planning



ANNEX
Page 14
program.  We have assumed that all the costs additional to current levels
of expenditure are attributed to family planning though many of these are
due to the fact that the standard of maternity care is going to improve.
Since the project is economically justified even using such a conservative
measure of recurrent costs, a fortiori it would be justified if only these
recurrent costs strictly relevant to the family planning program were taken.
Table 5
Support Costs, in 1970 Prices, of a Child Born
in 1975
(Jamaican $)
Private    -----------------Government-------------------
Education    Education   Education
Family     Health       Recurrent    Capital       Teachers
Year         Support    Services        Costs         Costs      Training    Total
1975             52       18.10                                              70-10
1976             52       18.64                                              70.64
1977             52       19.20                                              71.20
1978             52       19.78                                              71.78
1979             52       20.38                                              72.38
1980            104       20.98                                             124.93
1981            104       21.62                                             125.62
1982           104        22.52         42.78                               169.40
1983            104       22.94         44.06                               171.00
1984            104       23.52         45.38                               173.01
1985            104       24.32         46.74                               175.06
1986            104       25.06         48.14                     32.10     209.30
1987            104       25.82         4968           320        33.o6     532.4,6
1988            104       26.60        153.22                     19.06     302.83
1989            104       27.38        177.82                     19.64     328.84
1990            104       28.20        162.55          180        20.22     494.98
1991             36.4     29.06        148.84                               214.30
1992             36.4     29.92        153.30                               219.52
1993                      30.82                                              30.82
1994            1/        31.74                                              31.74
1995                      32.70,                                             32.70
1996                      33.68                                              33. !
1997                      34.68                                              34.68
1998                      35.76                                              35.76
1999                      36.80                                              36.80
2000                      37.90                                              37.5;)
17 A child will go on consuming after reaching age 15 (1990) but may also
enter the labor force.  The "cost' of lost production has been assumed
approxinately equal to the "benefit' of consumption saved after 1992.
l



ANNEX 9
Page 15
Table 6
Resources Freed From Child Support, and Project
Recurrent Costs, 1973-2000
(J$ 000's)
Private             --- Government -----------
(1)     2           (3)           (4)             (5)           (6)            (7)
3 + 4+ 5       1 + 6
Health
Services                                  Net
and                       Recurrent     Savings         Total
Family      Social                      Costs of       in Public       Resources
Year   Support      Security     Education      Project/      Expenditure    Freed
1973                                           -   80         -      80       -     80
1974                                           -  328         -    328        -    328
19-1<5     32            11                    -  338         -    326        -    294
1976      115            41                    -  348         -    307        -    192
1977      239            88                    -  358         -    270        -     31
1978      391           149                    -  369         -    220             171
lf 7?     568           223                    -  380         -    157             411
782          303                    -  391                89             693
1S81    1,048           388                    -  403         -      15          1,033
12r)'?O   1, 352        477           27       -  415                88          1,440
1L983    1,688          572           98       -  428               242          1,930
1381h   1,952           672          208       -  441               439          2,391
-. .13;   2,410         777          352       -  454              675           3,085
. ;u    2,775          888          546       -  467              967           3,742
19-7    3,139         1,005          973       -  481             1,497          4,636
98    3,505         1,129         1,639       -  496            2,271           5,776
1>8Q    3,867         1,258        2,349       -  511             3,096          6,96u
4,231        1,394         3,222      -  526             4,090           8,321
1091    4,553         1,538        4,192       -  542             5,189          9,742
iL;,2    4,809        1,688        5,051       -  558            6,181          10,990
1093    4,990         1,847        5,771       -  575             7,044         12,034
J' ?~4  5,097        2,013         6,322       -  592            7,743          12,840
19?5    5,145        2,189         6,671      -  610             8,250          13,395
1996    5,165         2,372        6,915       -  628             8,659         13,824
1,Q7    5,169         2,564        7,090       -  647             9,007         14,176
193    5,169         2,766         7,248      -  666             9,348          14,517
1S99    5,169         2,978        7,413       -  686             9,705         14,874
2000    5,169         3,200        7,583       -  707           10,076          15,245
a/  Recurrent costs are treated negatively because they are additional
resources required by the project rather than resources freed.



A1'NEX 9
Page 16
35.       One way of looking at the project is to treat total "resources
freed" as exactly the same kind of benefit which, in other sectors, the
Bank refers to as "cost savings.` These gross benefits can therefore be
compared directly with project costs to derive the same kind of cost-benefit
measures used in other sectors, e.g. a Benefit/Cost ratio or an Internal
Economic Peturn. For population projects a Benefit/Cost ratio seems the
most appropriate test: when benefits and costs (total plus recurrent) are
discounted at 10% over the period 1970-2000, the VJH component shows a ratio
of 4.5:1. Using the Internal Economic Return as an alternative measure,
the hospital shows a return of 27%. Thus the VJH comes out with high marks
on both these tests. As explained earlier, however, there are limitations
in using the usual concept of aggregate benefits and costs, instead of per
capita values, in population projects.
36.       The use of aggregate cost and benefit streams has two main defects
in population projects. In the first place, a primary effect of the project
is to reduce the number of people among whom national income must be shared
and thus to raise per capita incomes by an arount greater than would result
from a project in any other sector that had the same benefits and costs. In
the second place, the project will eventually reduce the size of the labor
force; this might affect the total output of the econory, although increased
investment may prevent this from happening. To calculate the full effect of
the project on income per capita we need to calculate 1) the effect of freeing
resources on total national income, 2) the effect of a reduced labor force
on national income, and 3) total population with and without the project. We
are then able to see how the project will affect income per head.
b. The Effect of Freeing Resources on National Income
37.       To estirmate the effect of freeing this total of resources on the
size of Jamaican national income we need to make assumptions about the amount
that gets reinvested. The following assumptions have been chosen to be
realistic in the light of recent Jamaican experience (but bearing in mind
that our analysis extends for a long way into the future, in an economy in
which income is likely to grow rapidly).
i) The net rate of return on investment is 10%, whether carried
out privately or by the Government.l/ This return is obtained in every
year following that in which the investment is made.
ii) The family in which the birth would have occurred now saves
5% of the money it would have spent on the child, and devotes the other
95% to its own consumption.  By assumption, the savings are matched by in-
creased private investment immediately they are made.
1/ This was derived as follows. The rate of growth of output has recently
been 5-6% a year. This is expected to continue. For the measure of
output we take Net Domestic Product (NDP). Profits (Tr) have been about
30-33% (on the assumption that 1/3-1/2 of the income of unincorporated
enterorises is treated as profits). Net investment (I) has been around
15-18% of NDP; i.e. we can assume if NDP = 100 A NDP = 5.5  I = 16.5
A = 5.5 x .3 = 1.65 (= absolute change in profits)
Hence I = 1.65 = 10% (= change in profits over investment)
16.l



AMNE 9
Page 17
iii) Twenty-five percent of the income from the project-induced
incremental investment is paid in tax and 25% is saved.  The remaining
50% adds directly to private consumption (not necessarily of the saving
family).
iv) The tax paid on this income is treated in exactly the same
way that other resources freed from public expenditure are used (i.e. a
portion is invested, the rest is used for recurrent purposes). The public
resources saved by reduction of the Government's recurrent costs are also
allocated partly to increased public investment and partly to increased
recurrent expenditures. The Government retains all the net income from
public investment and treats this income the same way (partly reinvested,
partly for added recurrent costs).
38.       Three sets of assumptions are made about these several Govern-
ment allocations of resource savings to (a) investment and (b) current
uses:
A.  (Low reinvestment assumption) 30p of these public resources
are invested, 70% devoted to current expenditure.
B. (Medium investment assumption) one-half of public resources
are invested.
C.  (High investment assumption) 70% are invested.
At present 25-30% of Government expenditure is devoted to capital expendi-
ture. It is likely that the marginal rate of investment would be higher
than the average. On these assumptions we have calculated how the project
would affect national income. The results are shown in Table 7.
c. The Effect of a Reduced Labor Force on Output and Output Per Head
39.       After 1990 the project begins to affect the size of the labor
force. To calculate this, we need labor force participation.l/ The
rates used are based on 1960 participation rates, modified on the assumption
that the numbers in secondary school and university will increase by 1990.
1/ Percentage of the total population in the Labor Force, i.e. engaged
in or seeking gainful employment.



ANNEX 9
Page 18
Table 7
Effect of the Resources Freed From Child Support on the
Total Iational Incor,ie of Jamaica 1974-2000
(J$  'OOO's)
30% I5                              70%
Public
Investment
Assumption:                   A                  B                 C
1974                    -      2            -     4           -    12
1975                    -    12             -    21           -    29,
1976                    -    22             -    38           _    54
1,77                    -    32             -    54                78
1978                    -    40             -    70           _   102
1979                    -    45             -    82           -   122
1980                          4 8           -    91           -    39
1981                    -    9                   9            -   :51
1982                    -    45             -    97           -   258
1983                          37            -    91           -   156
1984                          23            -    75           -   W.3
1985                    -      7            -    47           -   ;13
1986                          64            -     4           -   `62
1987                         121                 14t               13
1988                         210                150               132
1989                         226                287               316
1990                         3ff2               472               570
1991                         507                721               )16
1992                         684              1,061             1,343
1993                         931              1,L 419           1,905
1994                       1,195              1,866             2,551
1995                       1,488              2,369             3,290
1996                       1,806              2,921             4,115
1997                       2,1L7              3,522             5,026
1998                       2,505              4,168             6,024
1999                       2,886              4,864             7,115
2000                       3,289              5,811             8,306
Mote:  The negative figures in the early years reflect the
effect of project recurrent costs in holding national
income below  what it would otherwise have been in
those years, by holding dowm public investment.



AI'NEX 9
Page 19
Table 8
Ass-med Labor Force Participation Rates
Percent
Age          I'Ien              Tomen              Total
-5-17          60                  48                 54
118-o6h        95                  52                 73
Unfortunately it was not possible to obtain a-finer age breakdown, and
it was therefore assumed that entry at age 15-16 and age 18 bear the
same relation to their cohort as the average participation rate for the
age groups 15-17 and 18-64 respectively.
Table 9
Entrants to Labor Force
Reaching      Entering         Entering
Age         Labor Force         at          Total       Cumulative
16            at 16            18         Entries      Entries5
1991     O20d            335                           335             335
1992   1,600             865                           865           1,200
1993   2,370          1,280            120           1,400          2,600
1994   2,940           1,590           300           1,890          4,490
1995   3,400          1,835            h50           2,275          6,765
1996   3,500          1,890            560           2,450          9,215
1997   3,500          1,890            645           2,535         11,750
1998   3,500           1,890           665           2,555         14,305
1999   3,500           1,690           605           2,555         16,860
2000   3,500          1,890            665           2,555         19,h15
40.       Table 9 shows the cumulative effect on the labor force between
the years 1991 and 2000. The numbers increase steadily by 2555 every
year thereafter. For comiparison the size of the 1990 labor force will
be about 1,180,000 and that of the year 2000, 1,360,000, on the same



AIThEX '
Page 20
participation assinrmptions and using the projection shown in Table 1.  The
total effect of the nroject on the labor force will never be very large.
By the year 2045, when children born in 1980 would retire, the effect of
the project wvould be to reduce the labor force about 6-7,@0 below what it
would have been without the project.
L1.       The effect of the project on the capital stock can also be
calculated; a "snapshot'T of the position in 1990 and 2000 is given in
Table 10.
Table 10
Effect of Project on Capital Stock
in 1990 and 2C00
(J$ 'COO's)
1990                    2000
Additions to Capital
Stock from Public
Investment
Assumption A                           3,517                   32,440
B                           5,655                   59,4
T'     C                           7,583                   91,277
Additions fron
Private Investmaent                    1,559                     4,804
Total Additions
Assumption  A                          5,076                   37,244
11      B                          7,214                   6)4,208
'I      C                          9,142                   96,081
42.       The effect of the project on increasing the capital stock is,
in the year 2000, still very small. On the assumption that gross domestic
product rises at an average 5.5% per year for the remainder of the century
with a gross capital-output ratio of 4 (which is consistent with recent
experience) the total effect of the project on total capital stock would
be 0.2 percent on the low reinvestment assumption and 0.5 on the high
reinvestment assummption. By comparison, the labor force will be 1.4 percent
lower than in the absence of the project. Although the proportionate



ANNEX 9
Page 21
effects on the stock of capital and on the labor force will still be small
in the year 2000, the absolute amounts involved will at that time be growing
at about 15% and so the proportionate effects will increase.
43.       To determine whether the effect of faster capital accumulation
would offset the diminishing labor force in terms of aggregate income requires
a sophisticated macroeconomic model for Jamaica in the early years of the
21st century, as well as predictions of project output at that time. We have
not attempted to construct such a model or make such prediction, as both
would only rest on very shaky foundations. We should note however, that
Jamaica is at present suffering from severe unemployment, estimated to be
over 10% of the labor force and growing as a proportion of it.  Thile we
must hope that this problem will be solved within the next twenty years,
it is not certain that it will be, and a slower growth rate of the labor
force should make it easier to find a solution.
4h.       IAhatever happens to aggregate income, however, there is no ques-
tion what the effect of a smaller labor force and more capital will be on out-
put per head of the labor force. Undoubtedly productivity will increase.
With a more slowly grouing population, the ratio of the labor force
to total population increases; a fortiori, output per head of the total
population will rise. Although we cannot estimate the exact amounts involved
we can be certain about the direction of change.
Effects of Freeing Resources for Chi'ld Support on Income Per Head
45.      WlSe have so far been concerned with effect of the project on
aggregate income, and have found that it can be justified on these grounds
alone. In this respect, the analysis is comnarable with methods used to
evaluate investment projects of a more conventional type - such as an irriga-
tion or roads. *We have, however, departed from usual practice by making
reinvestment assumptions, which allow us to calculate the exact effect on
national income in any year, as the first step to calculating income per
head. The second step is to estimate income per head both with and without
the project. This gives us the gain in income per head that results from
the project. This is not a step which needs to be taken in evaluating other
types of Bank projects, which we assume do not affect the total population.
Consequently in other projects the same rate of return would be obtained
from working in per capita terms as from working in aggregate terms. This
is not the case for population projects.
46.       Table 11 shows national income and population with and without
the project, using assumption B only. Table 12 puts this into per capita
terms. Several writers have argued that additional consumption inside the
families of acceptors is less of a social benefit than other forms of
additional income, so we have also calculated the effect on national and per



ANNEX 9
Page 22
capita income with this benefit excluded.-/   As can be seen this makes little
difference to the result.
Table 11
National Income and Population with and without
the Project
N. I.      N. I.    N. I. excl.   Popula-       Population   Births
without    with      Change in C   tion with-  with pro-    averted
project    project   in Acceptor   out pro-     ject         cumulative
families    ject
$Jm.a/     $Jm. b/     $Jm. c/      ('000)       ('000)        (0ooo)
1972   884.5                               2060.3
1973   933.1                               2091.4
1974   984.5      984.5                    2122.5
1975  1038.6    1038.6       1038.6        2154.2        2153.6         0.6
1976  1095.8    1095.7       1095.6        2186.0        2183.8         2.2
1977  1156.0    1156.0       1155.8        2218.6        2214.0         4.6
1978  1219.6    1219.5       1219.2        2251.7        2244.2         7.5
1979  1286.7    1286.6       1286.1        2285.3        2274.3        10.9
1980  1357.5    1357.4       1356.6        2319.0        2304.5        14.4
1981  1432.1    1432.0       1431.0        2353.7        2335.7        17.9
1982  1510.9    1510.8       1509.5        2388.4        2367.0        21.4
1983  1594.5    1593.9       1592.3        2423.1        2398.1        24.9
1984  1681.7    1681.6       1679.6        2457.8        2429.3        28.4
1985  1774.1    1774.1       1771.8        2492.5        2460.5       31.9
1986 1871.7    1871.7        1869.1        2525.6        2490.2        35.4
1987  1974.7    1974.7       1971.7        2558.8        2519.8        38.9
1988  2083.3    2083.5       2080.2        2592.0        2549.5        42.4
1989  2197.9     2198.1      2194.5        2625.1        2579.2        45.9
1990  2318.7    2319.2       2315.2        2658.3        2608.8        49.4
1991  2446.3     2447.0      2443.7        2688.1        2635.2        52.9
1992  2580.8    2581.9       2577.3        2718.0        2561.5        56.4
1Jr93  2722.8    2724.2      2719.4        2747.8        2687.9        59.9
9c94  2872.5     2874.4      2869.5        2777.7        2714.3        63.4
1S95  3C30.5    3032.9       3028.0        2307.5        2740.6        66.9
1996  3197.2    3200.1       3195.2        2833.3        2762.9        70.4
1997  3373.0    3376.6       3371.6        2859.2        2785.2        73.9
1998  3558.5    3562.7       3557.8        2885.0        2807.5        77.4
]'S99  3754.3    3759.1      3754.2        2910.8        2829.8        80.9
20CC   39b0.7    3966.6      3961.6        2936.6        2852.1        84.4
Note:  a/ 1970 prices
b/  Reinvestment Assumption B (see text)
c/ The rationale for excluding the change in consumption in the families
of acceptors is explained in para. 46
d/  The assumptions are those of the Bank's own projection (described
earlier).
IT The argument is that some of the children whose birth is averted as a result of
this project, would have given pleasure, or in some way brought benefits, to the
families in which they would have lived.  Since family planning methods were adopted
voluntarily these benefits were plainly outweighed by the costs of child support, ard
the family considers itself better off without the child (but not as much better o.-f
as if it could have had both the additional consumption and the child).



ANNEX 9
Page 23
Taole 12
Income Per Capita With and Without the Project
(Janaican $)
Inc. p.c.          Increase in
Increase     wi th               Inc. P.c.
in           project ex-         due to
Inc. p.c.    Inc. p.c.    Inc. p.c.    cluding fam-         project exclud-
without      with          due to       ily consump-        ing family con-
Year    project      project a/   project        tion b/             sumption b/
1-72       429.3
1973       446.2
1974       463.8        463.8
1975       482.1       1482.3        0.2            482.3                   0.2
1976       501.3        501.8        0.5            501.7                   0.4
1977       521.0        522.1        1.1            522.0                   1.0
1978       541.6        543.4        1.8            543.3                   1.7
1979       563.0        565.7        2.7            565.5                   2.5
1980      5585-4        589.0        3.6            588.7                   3.3
1981       608.5       613.1         4.7            612.7                   4.2
;982       632.6       638.3         5.7            637.7                   5.1
657.8       664.6         6.8           6014.0                  6.2
1984       684.2        692.2        8.0            691.4                   7.2
1985       711.8        721.0        9.2            720.1                   8.3
1986       741.1        751.6       10.5            750.6                   9.5
1987       771.7       783.7        11.9            782.5                  10.8
1988       803.8       817.8        L3.5            815.9                 12.1
1989       837.2        852.3       15.1            850.8                  13.6
1990       872."        889.0       16.7            887.4                  15.1
1991       910,0       928.6        18.6            925.9                  16.9
1992       949.5       970.0        20.5            968.4                 18.9
1993       990.9     1,013.5        22.6          1,011.7                  20.8
1994     1,03LI.1    1,059.0        24.9          1,057.2                  23.1
1995     1,079.14    1 106.6        27.2          1,104.9                  25.5
1996     1,128.4      1,158.2       29.8          1,156.5                  28.1
1997     1,179.7     1,212.3        32.6          1,210.5                  30.8
1998     1,233.5     1,269.0        35.5          1,267.2                  33.7
1999     1,289.8      1,328.4       38.6          1,326.7                  36.9
2000     1,348.8     1,390.7        42.0         1,359.0                   40.2
a!  W.ith reinvestment assumption B.
b/ Again, see para. 46.



ANNEX 9
Page 2[
47.       Table 12 shows increases in Qer capita income attributable to
the project of about J$ 3.5 in 1980, rising to over J$ 15 by 1990 and to
more than JC! 40 by the year 2000. These increases cormpare with per capita
investment costs of Jct 1.2.  There are technical objections to deriving
from the cost and benefit streams, as constructed in this Annex, any dis-
counted cost-benefit measure that is strictly comparable with those
normally constructed for non-population projects. WTe will simply point
out the obvious fact that the project rapidly generates a stream of in-
creases in per capita income that is dramatically larger than its per
capita investment costs.
May 18, 1970



