Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H273-BU 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Education Sector Reconstruction Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 27, 2007 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H273-BU 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 27, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree 
 
as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  
or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent  
to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 13,300,000) 
(
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described 
 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts 2-3 of the Project through the Ministry  
of Education, and cause Part 1 of the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions  
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, has been duly adopted by the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
(c) 
Staff, including: (i) the Executive Secretary; (ii) a financial management 
specialist; (iii) an accountant; (iv) 
a procurement specialist; and 
(v) 
a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with qualifications, 
experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, have 
been appointed to the Executive Operational Secretariat in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
 
Facsimile: 
257-22-38-27 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By /s/ Denise Sinankwa 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane Sow 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to 
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s schools 
to educate a rapidly increasing number of primary-level students and the capacity of the 
Recipient to carry out policy analysis, strategic planning, and program implementation  
in the education sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Expansion of School Infrastructure
Three-year program of construction and rehabilitation of primary schools  
in Bururi, Cankuzo, Citiboke, Karsusi, Kirundo, Muyinga, Ngozi, Rural Bujumbura, and 
Rutana Provinces: 
(a) 
Construction of classrooms (approximately 220), school director’s and 
other administrative offices, a library, girls’ and boys’ restrooms, and water 
sources (approximately 40). 
(b) 
Rehabilitation of classrooms (approximately 200), girls’ and boys’ 
restrooms, and water sources. 
(c) 
Construction of teachers’ lodges (approximately 60) as appropriate, in 
schools targeted under above activities. 
(d) 
Provision of furniture and equipment, such as desks, library 
 
and administrative office furniture, blackboards, and maps, for schools targeted under 
above activities. 
(e) 
Carrying out of training and awareness activities relating to construction 
under the Project for Commune Development Committees and school communities, such 
as parent-teacher associations, involved in implementation of this Part 1 of the Project. 
(f) 
Establishment of Population Resettlement Fund, and financing 
 
of compensation, studies, and training in supervision and in monitoring and evaluation 
both generally and with specific regard to resettlement through said Fund. 
(g) 
Implementation of Environmental and Social Management Framework, 
including measures proposed in the Environmental and Social Management Plan. 
All through the acquisition of goods, carrying out of works, provision  
of technical advisory services, and carrying out of training. 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
Support for Teaching and Learning
(a) 
Training of teachers, school directors, and inspectors: 
(i) 
in-person and distance pedagogical in-service training of up to 
2,950 primary-school teachers without pedagogical 
qualifications; 
(ii)  distance in-service training of all primary-school 
teachers (approximately 26,000)  in  pedagogical  methodology, 
health, nutrition, hygiene, HIV/AIDS, human rights, education 
for peace, life competencies, and gender issues; 
(iii) 
in-person in-service training of approximately 2,200 school 
directors and approximately 149 Commune inspectors in critical 
aspects of their functions, and follow-up on and evaluation  
of such training; 
(iv) 
development and training, in Pedagogical Offices, of teams 
specializing in distance Training in areas of editing, production, 
operation, and evaluation of distance Training programs, and 
provision of equipment to School Radio; and 
(v) 
development of training programs for teachers, school directors, 
and inspectors, pedagogical and administrative tools for school 
directors and inspectors, interactive distance-training radio 
programs, and training programs for trainers. 
 
(b) 
Provision and management of textbooks and learning materials: 
(i) 
provision of select textbooks to all primary-school students; 
(ii) 
provision of one textbook each of biology, English, French, 
Kirundi, and mathematics for every three lower-secondary 
school students; 
(iii) 
provision of said textbooks and corresponding teacher
’s guides 
or books to all primary and lower-secondary school teachers; and 
(iv) 
development of textbook and learning material management 
mechanisms, and capacity building in procurement. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
Measurement of learning outcomes: 
Development and annual administration of rapid-reading competency 
tests, through provision of support to entities of the Ministry of National 
Education and Culture in the following areas: 
(i) 
development and identification of sample to be tested; 
(ii) 
management of test administration; and 
(iii) 
evaluation of test results. 
 
All through the acquisition of goods, provision of technical advisory services, 
and carrying out of training. 
3. 
Capacity Building in Ministry of National Education and Culture
(a) 
Institutional and strategy development: 
(i) 
development of policies and reforms for improvement of quality 
of education, institutional capacity building in management  
and planning, establishment of education information 
management system, and elaboration of policy notes and action 
plan relating to health and nutrition as well as each sub-sector  
in secondary, technical-vocational, and higher education; 
(ii) 
provision of urgently required equipment such as servers, 
computers, printers, and photocopiers to the Directorate of the 
Office of Education Planning, General Directorate of 
Pedagogical Offices, and Provincial Education Department, four 
vehicles to the Executive Secretariat, and approximately 
149 motorcycles to regional inspectors; and 
(iii) 
carrying out of training, including workshops and study tours, 
for staff in policy development, management, and planning. 
(b) Project 
management: 
Provision of support to Executive Operational Secretariat in the 
following areas: 
(i) 
coordination of Project implementation; 
(ii) 
management of Grant proceeds; 
(iii) 
procurement and financial management; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation in light of 
results framework; and 
(v) 
capacity building of Ministry of National Education and Culture 
in fiduciary management. 
All through the acquisition of goods, provision of technical advisory services, 
carrying out of training, and financing of Operating Costs. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implement
ing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing 
available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms  
and conditions approved by the Association, which shall include 
 
the following (“Subsidiary Agreement”): 
(a) 
The Recipient shall provide part of the proceeds of the Financing to the 
Project Implementing Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory  
to the Association, including provision of said part on a grant basis. 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall perform all of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
Procurement of the goods, works, and services required for the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project shall be governed 
by the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(d) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project 
 
is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect Project 
implementation or achievement of the objective thereof. 
(e) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall receive management fees of five 
percent (5%) of the cost of goods, works, and technical advisory services 
required for implementation of its Respective Part of the Project. 
(f) 
Said management fees shall be paid to the Project Implementing Entity 
by the Executive Operational Secretariat only upon submission by the 
former to the latter of invoices and corresponding details on a monthly 
basis and approval of said invoices by the latter. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(g) 
The Executive Operational Secretariat shall pay the Project 
Implementing Entity said management fees no later than 15 days after 
the submission of said invoices and corresponding details by the latter. 
(h) 
The Executive Operational Secretariat shall make to the Project 
Implementing Entity, no later than 15 days after the approval by the 
former of the action plan of the latter referred to in Section V of this 
Schedule for the first year of Project implementation, an advance of said 
management fees for the first six months of implementation of the 
latter’s Respective Part of the Project in an amount equivalent to sixty 
three thousand dollars ($63,000).
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
 
or
waive  
the Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. Recipient
Ministry of National Education and Culture 
(a) 
The Ministry of National Education and Culture shall coordinate, 
monitor, and oversee Project implementation. 
Committee for Coordination of Implementation of Education and Training Sector 
Policy 
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain in the Ministry of National 
 
Education and Culture, throughout Project implementation, the Committee 
 
for Coordination of Implementation of Education and Training Sector Policy 
 
(the Coordination Committee), in form and substance and with resources and functions 
satisfactory to the Association, and comprising at least: (i) the Minister of National 
Education and Culture or his duly appointed representative as Chair; (ii) a representative 
from the Second Vice Presidency; (iii) the Director of the Office of Education  
Planning; and (iv) the Executive Operational Secretary.
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this 
Section, the Coordination Committee shall provide overall policy orientation for and 
oversight of Project implementation. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Executive Operational Secretariat 
(d) 
The Recipient shall maintain, in the Ministry of National Education  
and Culture, throughout Project implementation, the Executive Operational Secretariat, in 
form and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory 
 
to the Association, including staff with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, including the staff referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, whose responsibilities shall be as follows: (i) the Executive Secretary shall 
coordinate, manage, and monitor Project implementation; (ii) the financial management 
specialist shall be responsible for financial and administrative management 
 
and accounting under the Project, timely production of financial reports, and ensuring 
continued adequacy of the Project financial management system; (iii) the accountant shall 
be responsible for provision of accounting assistance to said financial management 
specialist; (iv) the procurement specialist shall be responsible for the planning, 
implementation, and follow up of procurement under the Project, production of quarterly 
and annual procurement reports, and updating of the Procurement Plan and shall 
participate in bidding evaluation and consultant selection committees under the  
Project; and (v) the monitoring and evaluation specialist shall be responsible for overall 
monitoring and evaluation under the Project and relating to the potential environmental 
and social impact of the Project and preparation of quarterly and annual Project Reports. 
(e) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (d) of this 
Section, the Executive Operational Secretariat shall coordinate and monitor Project  
implementation and carry out fiduciary management under the Project, and, as  
such, shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) organize and lead, in collaboration with the responsible 
Technical Directorate, planning of Project activities, consolidate the annual action plan 
for each part of the Project, and develop the global annual plan for activities under  
the Project; (ii) carry out, in collaboration with the responsible Technical 
 
Directorate, activities under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project; (iii) supervise and ensure, in 
collaboration with Component 1 of the Technical Execution Committee, compliance  
by the Project Implementation Entity with the provisions of the Subsidiary 
 
Agreement; (iv) maintain communication with the Association in relation to Project 
implementation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (v) organize  
and lead the process of monitoring and evaluation and consolidate annual 
 
Project Reports; (vi) ensure financial management, including accounting, under 
 
the Project, production of quarterly and annual financial statements, planning 
 
and coordination of annual audit missions, and timely implementation 
 
of auditors’ recommendations; (vii) coordinate, in collaboration with the responsible 
Technical Directorate, procurement and launch and supervision of contract 
 
execution, and ensure compliance with applicable procedures; (viii) organize and make 
available to the relevant monitoring (audit, inspection, evaluation, supervision) body any 
support, information, and other resources necessary to the achievement of the concerned 
exercise; and (ix) ensure the carrying out of the training set out in the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(f) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraphs (d) and (e) of 
this Section, the Executive Secretariat shall be responsible for implementation 
 
of Part 3 (b) of the Project, including monitoring and evaluation, and shall work in close 
collaboration with the Technical Execution Committee, the concerned Technical 
Directorate, and the Office of Education Planning with regard to monitoring 
 
and evaluation.
 
Technical Execution Committee 
(g)  The Recipient shall maintain under the Coordination 
 
Committee, throughout Project implementation, the Technical Execution Committee, in 
form and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory to the Association  
and comprising the following four (4) components: (i) Access and Equity 
 
(Component 1); (ii) Quality (Component 2); (iii) Institutional Capacity Building  
and Planning (Component 3); and (iv) Post-Primary Education (Component 4). 
(h) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (g) of this 
Section, the Technical Execution Committee shall provide overall policy orientation  
for and oversight of implementation of specific parts of the Project, as follows: (i) Part 1 
of the Project under Component 1; (ii) Part 2 of the Project under Component 2; and 
(iii) Part 3 of the Project under Components 3 and 4. 
Technical Directorates 
(i) 
The Recipient shall maintain in the Ministry of National Education  
and Culture, throughout Project implementation, Technical Directorates, in form  
and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory to the Association. 
(j) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (i) of this 
Section, the General Directorate of Pedagogical Offices shall be responsible 
 
for implementation of Part 2 of the Project, under the oversight of Component 2 of the 
Technical Execution Committee 
and the overall coordination and monitoring 
 
of the Executive Operational Secretariat.  The General Directorate of Pedagogical Offices 
shall work in close collaboration with the Office of National Evaluations and School 
Radio with regard to Part 2 (a) of the Project, the General Directorate of Basic Education 
and the General Directorate of Secondary Education with regard to Part 2 (b) of the 
Project, and the Office of National Evaluations with regard to Part 2 (c) of the Project. 
(k) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (i) of this 
Section, the Office of Education Planning shall be responsible for implementation  
of Part 3 (a) of the Project, under the oversight of Components 3 and 4 of the Technical 
Execution Committee and the overall coordination and monitoring of the Executive 
Operational Secretariat, and shall work in close collaboration with the Technical 
Execution Committee and the concerned Technical Directorate. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(l) 
As such and without limitation upon the provisions of 
 
subparagraphs (i), (j), and (k) of this Section, the General Directorate of Pedagogical 
Offices and the Office of Education Planning shall be responsible for the following with 
regard to Parts 2 and 3 (a) of the Project, respectively: (i) preparation of annual action 
plans and budgets under the Project; (ii) 
production of quarterly progress 
 
reports, including follow-up of Project indicators; (iii) planning, implementation, and 
oversight of Project activities; and (iv) coordination of said activities with the Executive 
Operational Secretariat, and provision to the latter of any information needed, including 
for auditing and fiduciary purposes. 
2. 
Project Implementing Entity
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain, 
throughout Project implementation, an institutional framework, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, including staff with qualifications, experience, and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of effective discharge of the 
responsibilities set out in subparagraph (b) below. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to coordinate  
and monitor implementation of and carry out financial management, accounting, and 
procurement under the latter
’s Respective Part of the Project, under the oversight  
of Component 1 of the Technical Execution Committee and the coordination 
 
and monitoring of the Executive Operational Secretariat. 
C. Manual
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) 
carry out, through the Ministry of National Education and Culture, its 
Respective Part of the Project, and cause the Project Implementing Entity 
to carry out its Respective Part of the Project, in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or 
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
 
or adversely affect Project implementation or achievement of the objective 
thereof.
 
D. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project, and cause  
the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that its Respective Part of the  
Project, is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Page  15
-
14
-
and Social Management Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework, and any 
Resettlement Action Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise  
agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be amended  
or waived, any provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect Project 
implementation or achievement of the objective thereof. 
2. 
The Environmental Focal Point of the Project Implementation Entity shall 
coordinate and oversee, in collaboration with the Environmental Focal Points  
of the Ministry of National Education and Culture and the Directorate of the 
Environment and Tourism, implementation of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework, and any Resettlement 
Action Plan under Part 1 of the Project. 
3. 
No construction activity under Part 1 of the Project requiring resettlement may  
be carried out without preparation and implementation, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, of a Resettlement Action Plan by the respective 
Commune Development Committee.
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports
 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project  
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
 
of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall  
be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) Project 
objective 
(A) 
The primary-education completion rate has increased 
from 38% in the 2005-06 school year to at least 65% in 
the 2010-11 school year. 
(B) 
Baseline results, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, have been established for sample-based 
rapid-reading competency tests by the end of the first 
year of Project implementation, and said results have 
Page  16
-
15
-
been maintained or exceeded in each subsequent year  
of Project implementation. 
(C) 
The Recipient has been endorsed by the Education for 
All 
–
Fast Track Initiative by the Closing Date. 
(ii) 
Part 1 of the Project 
(A) 
Primary-school gross enrolment rates have increased 
from 80% in the 2005-06 school year to 100% in the 
2010-11 school year in each of the nine Provinces 
targeted under Part 1 of the Project.
 
(B) 
The difference in the ratio of primary-school 
 
age population per class between the Province with  
the highest (Karusi with 171) and that with the 
lowest (Baruri with 44) has been reduced from 127 in 
the 2004-05 school year to 40 or less in the 2010-11 
school year. 
(C) 
The girl-boy ratio of primary-school enrolment 
 
has increased from 0.91 in the 2005-06 school year  
to 0.95 in the 2010-11 school year. 
(iii) 
Part 2 of the Project 
(A) 
A new system of in-service training for primary-school 
teachers, including new programs and distance learning 
through School Radio, has been established by the end 
of the first year of Project implementation. 
(B) 
Student-teacher ratios in the nine Provinces targeted 
under Part 1 of the Project has decreased from 
 
an average of 57 in the 2004-05 school year to an 
average of 50 in the 2010-11 school year. 
(C) 
The number of textbooks in French and Kirundi per 
primary-school student has increased from 0.3 in the 
2005-06 school year to 1 in the 2010-11 school year. 
(iv) 
Part 3 of the Project 
(A) 
By the end of the second year of Project implementation, 
the Ministry of National Education and Culture 
 
has established targets, in form and substance 
Page  17
-
16
-
satisfactory to the Association, for reduction of the ratio 
of non-teaching to teaching staff, and monitors, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association and on an 
annual basis, progress toward said targets in each 
subsequent year of Project implementation (Baseline 
data: 26% non-teaching staff in 2004-05 school year). 
(B) 
By the end of the second year of Project implementation, 
the Ministry of National Education and Culture has 
established targets, in form and substance satisfactory  
to the Association, for improvement in the equitable 
distribution of the teaching force between schools, and 
monitors, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association and on an annual basis, progress toward  
said targets in each subsequent year of Project 
implementation (Baseline data: Random allocation 
 
of 50% of teachers in 2004-05 school year). 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain, and cause the Project Implementing Entity  
to maintain, a financial management system in accordance with the provisions  
of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, no later than 45 days after the end of each 
quarter of the calendar year, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited, and ensure that the 
Project Implementing Entity has its Financial Statements audited, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit  
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under 
the Project Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements  
for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six 
months
 
after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1
.
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
Page  18
-
17
-
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association  
of particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National or International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify  
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping 
(b) Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
(c) Direct Contracting
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided 
 
in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
Page  19
-
18
-
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Direct Contracting 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to 
 
the Recipient, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Association:  (a) each contract for goods or works in accordance with the 
provisions of the Procurement Plan; (b) each contract for consultants’ services 
with specific regard to the terms of reference for such contract; (c) the first 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm; (d) each contract  
for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent  
of $100,000 or more; (e) the first contract for consultants’ services provided by 
an individual; (f) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (g) each  
contract for consultants’ services procured on the basis of single source  
selection; and (h) each contract for training, workshops, and study tours  
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance  
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may  
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations  
of the amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage  
of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(excluding taxes)
(1)  Goods 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
130,000 
 
3,300,000 
100 
(2)  Works 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
4,600,000 
 
0
100 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
370,000 
2,000,000 
100 
(4) Training, including 
study tours and 
workshops 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
0
1,700,000 
100 
Page  21
-
20
-
(5) Population 
Resettlement Fund 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
70,000 
0
100 
 
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(excluding taxes)
(6) Project Implementing 
Entity Management Fees 
260,000 100 
(7) Operating Costs 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Parts 2 and 3 of 
Project 
 
0
270,000 
100 
(8) Project Preparation 
Advance 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(9) Unallocated 
350,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
13,300,000 
======= 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
V. Other 
Undertakings
 
For each year of Project implementation, the Project Implementing Entity, the 
Directorate General of Pedagogical Offices, and the Office of Education Planning shall 
submit to the Executive Operational Secretariat for approval, in accordance with the 
Page  22
-
21
-
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, an annual action plan, in form  
and substance satisfactory to the Association, for Parts 1, 2, and 3 (a) of the Project, 
respectively, setting out the activities to be implemented under the Project in the 
following year. 
Page  23
-
22
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Committee for Coordination and Monitoring of Implementation of Education 
Sector Policy and Training” or “Coordination Committee” means the Recipient’s 
entity established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Order No. 15 of 
December 18, 2006, responsible for coordination and monitoring 
 
of implementation of the Recipient’s education sector policy and training.  
3. 
“Commune” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant 
to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/16 of April 20,
 
2005, representing a designated area 
and population within the territory of the Recipient.  
4. 
“Commune Development Committee” (
Comité de Développement Communal
)
means the Recipient’s entity established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 1/16 of 20 April 2005, and which is responsible for 
communal development.  
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
6. 
“Directorate of Education Projects” means the Recipient’s entity, housed under 
the Ministry of National Education and Culture (as hereinafter defined), 
responsible for education projects. 
7. 
“Directorate of the Environment and Tourism” means the Recipient’s entity, 
housed under the Ministry of Land Settlement, the Environment, and Tourism  
(as hereinafter defined), responsible for the environment and tourism.  
8. 
“Directorate General of Basic Education” (
Direction Générale de l’Education de 
Base
)
means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry of National 
Education and Culture (as hereinafter defined), responsible for basic education. 
9. 
“Directorate General of Pedagogical Offices” (
Direction Générale des Bureaux 
Pédagogiques
)
means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry of 
National Education and Culture (as hereinafter defined), responsible for 
Pedagogical Offices (as hereinafter defined). 
10. 
“Directorate General of Secondary Education” (
Direction Générale de 
l’Enseignement Secondaire
)
means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the 
Page  24
-
23
-
Ministry of National Education and Culture (as hereinafter defined), responsible 
for secondary education. 
11. 
“Education for All – Fast Track Initiative” means the global partnership 
established between donor and developing countries in 2002 in order to ensure 
accelerated progress towards the achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goal of universal primary education by 2015. 
12. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
framework, dated November 2006, agreed with the Association for the 
environmental and social screening process to be followed in identifying, 
assessing, and mitigating the potential adverse environmental and social impact 
associated with activities to be implemented under the Project, as the same may 
be updated from time to time with the concurrence of the Association, to be 
applied by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
13. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan which  
is part of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and which  
is agreed with the Association for the environmental and social screening process 
to be followed in identifying, assessing, and mitigating the potential adverse 
environmental and social impact associated with activities to be implemented 
under the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association, to be applied by the Recipient in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Environmental and Social Management Plan. 
14. 
“Environmental Focal Point” means an individual designated in an entity of the 
Recipient’s as being responsible for implementation of environmental and social 
safeguards under the Project activities involving said entity. 
15. 
“Executive Operational Secretariat” means the Recipient’s entity established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Ministerial Ordinance No. 610/1215 of 
December 19, 2006. 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
17. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s Ministry at the time responsible for 
finance.  
18. 
“Ministry of National Education and Culture” means the Recipient’s Ministry at 
the time responsible for national education and culture. 
Page  25
-
24
-
19. 
“Ministry of Planning, Development, and Reconstruction” means the Recipient’s 
Ministry at the time responsible for planning, development, and reconstruction. 
20. 
“Ministry of Land Settlement, the Environment, and Tourism” means the 
Recipient’s Ministry at the time responsible for land settlement, the environment, 
and tourism.  
21. 
“Office of Education Planning” (
Bureau de la Planification 
de
l’Education
)
means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry of National Education 
and Culture, responsible for educational planning.  
22. 
“Office of National Evaluations” (
Bureau des Evaluations Nationales
)
means the 
Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry of National Education and Culture, 
responsible for evaluation of learning. 
23. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient  
on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, including 
for office space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment 
maintenance, advertising expenses, travel and supervision, salaries of contractual 
and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses  
of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
24. 
“Pedagogical Office” means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry  
of Education, and which is responsible for curricula development, pedagogical 
supervision, and in-service teacher training. 
25. 
“Population Resettlement Fund” refers to the fund established under Part 1 (f) of 
the Project for purposes of compensation of persons potentially resettled  
as a result of activities under Part 1 of the Project. 
26. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
27. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 21, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
28. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity, and outlining implementation, organizational, 
administrative, monitoring and evaluation, financial management, disbursement, 
procurement, and environmental and social monitoring and mitigation 
arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of 
Page  26
-
25
-
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
29. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means 
Agence Burundaise pour la Réalisation des 
Travaux d’Intérêt Public
 (Burundian Agency for Implementation of Public 
Interest Works). 
30. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Recipient’s Ministerial 
Ordinance No. 530/897 of June 27, 2003. 
31. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant  
to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on April 25, 2006 and 
on behalf of the Recipient on April 26, 2006. 
32. 
“Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant  
to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/010 of March 18, 2005, representing a designated 
area and population within the territory of the Recipient. 
33. 
“Provincial Education Department” (
Département Provincial de l’Education
)
means the Recipient’s entity, housed under the Ministry of Education, 
responsible for provincial education. 
34. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Recipient’s framework, dated 
November 2006, agreed with the Association for the resettlement and 
compensation of persons affected by potential changes in land use associated 
with activities to be implemented under the Project, as the same may be updated 
from time to time with the concurrence of the Association, to be applied by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and such term includes any schedules to the Resettlement Policy 
Framework. 
35. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means a plan that outlines the procedures, including 
related compensation measures, to be applied in the event of the physical 
displacement of persons and / or loss of livelihoods of persons affected  
by activities to be implemented under the Project, to be prepared and applied  
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Sections I.D.1 and 3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
36. 
“School Radio” means the Recipient’s entity responsible for the production  
of radio programs on educational issues and for in-service teacher training. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
37 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
38. 
“Technical Execution Committee” means the Recipient’s entity established  
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Ministerial Ordinance No. 610/1216 of 
December 19, 2006. 
39. 
“Technical Directorate” means an entity under the Ministry of National 
Education and Culture responsible for specific technical aspects of the sector. 
40. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported 
 
activities, such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs 
associated with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training 
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
costs directly related to training preparation and implementation. 
 
