Report No. 1111-EGT                                                                   FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Upper Egypt Drainage 11 Project
Arab Republic of Egypt
May 27, 1976
Agriculture and Rural Development Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by Recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1976)
US$ 1.00                =  Egyptian Pound (bE) 0.39 (Official rate -
used in this report
LE  1.00                =  US$2.56                    for all project cost
estimates)
LE  1.00                =  US$1.70  (Parallel market exchange rate at
time of appraisal - used in this
report for economic evaluation)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)          =  1.04 acres (ac)
1 feddan (fed)          =  0.42 hectares (ha)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)      =  35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =  0.984 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
EPADP  -   Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
GOACC  -   General Organization for Agricultural and Cooperative
Credit
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product (Value)
WFP    -   World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFClIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......             ..........................        i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION ......... .........................................                 1
II.    BACKGROUND .............................................                         2
General            ................................................              2
Population ... ...........   2
The Agricultural Sector ...........................................              2
Previous IDA Drainage Projects in Egypt  ............              ....          3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ...........................                  ............       4
General      ............................................... .                   4
Climate      ............................................... .                  5
Topography and Soils ......           .............................              5
Drainage Conditions and Irrigation .... .............                            5
Salinity Conditions .......................                                     6
Agricultural Production ................................                         7
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size  .................              .          7
Agricultural Support Services  .....           .............                     7
Credit, Marketing, Transportation and Storage  ....                ......       8
Agricultural Taxation ..................................                         8
IV. THE PROJECT ...... ....   9
Objectives           .............................................               9
Project Drainage and Reclamation Works  .................                       9
Bilharzia Control               ......................................         11
Status of Engineering  .......            ...........................          11
Consulting Services           ...................     .................        12
Construction Schedule  ..................              ................        12
Cost Estimates  ..................... ....................                     13
Financing        ..............................................                14
Procurement and Contracts  ..............          ..     ..............       15
Disbursement          ...........................................              17
Environmental Impact           ..................     .................        18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Arab Re-
public of Egypt in November/December 1975, composed of Messrs. P. Economides,
F. Sands and G. Donovan (IDA/Bank). The Bilharzia control aspects of the
project were appraised by Dr. G. Webbe (Consultant) in October 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                        Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......    ......................  19
Project Authority Responsible for Drainage Works   ......     19
Supervision of the Bilharzia Control Program .......... .     19
Operation and Maintenance .....     ........................  20
Services and Training .....   ............................    20
Cost  Recovery   ..........................................    21
Accounts and Audit ................... ... ..............      22
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME ..       22
Cropped Area, Yields and Production ..      .................  22
Markets and Prices ................. .. .................      23
Producer Income ..................... ..................       23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................       23
Aggregate Economic Return .............. .. .............      23
Beneficiaries          .........................................  24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................       24
ANNEXES
1. Climatological Data
2. Soils and Need for Drainage
3. Project Works
4. Agriculture
5. Consulting Services - Draft Terms of Reference
6. Cost Estimates
7. Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost
8. Equipment and Materials
9. Agricultural Credit, Cooperatives, Marketing and Prices
10. Farm Budgets
11. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
12. Bilharzia Control
FIGURES
IBRD  15753 Implementation Schedule
IBRD  15754 Organization Chart for EPADP
IBRD  12107 General Map of Project Area
IBRD  12108 to 12114 and 12280 Detailed Maps of Project Area
IBRD  12115 Bilharzia Control Project Area



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The agricultural sector in the Arab Republic of Egypt is extremely
important; it provides 31% of the GNP and employs about half of the total
labor force. Sustaining and improving land productivity is a prime requisite
for maintaining and improving the life of the people. However, in the absence
of adequate drainage, agricultural production has been facing the twin menaces
of waterlogging and salinity. The situation worsened after the construction
of the Aswan High Dam in 1970 which enabled the farmers to shift from basin
irrigation to perennial irrigation.
ii.       A high priority has been accorded by the Government to improving
the drainage conditions in the agricultural land. The Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP), is responsible for Implementing the
drainage program throughout the more than 6 million feddans (fed) of irrigated
land. IDA has provided two credits to assist the Government in financing
drainage works: Credit 181-UAR of US$26.0 million for the tile drainage of
950,000 fed in the Nile Delta and Credit 393-UAR of US$36.0 million for the
tile drainage of 300,000 fed in Upper Egypt. Both credits are still on-going.
To date a total area of 1,000,000 fed has been provided with tile drainage
with Government resources and IDA credits.
iii.      The proposed third drainage project, (Upper Egypt Drainage II) would
comprise installation of buried tile field drains and collectors in 500,000
fed, remodelling of existing and construction of new open main and branch
drains, construction of one pumping station and reclamation of 12,000 fed of
saline and/or alkali land. A Bilharzia control component for extending the
program over an additional area of 120,000 fed, has also been included. The
present project differs from the previous IDA drainage projects in Egypt in
two respects: the use of poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) corrugated plastic pipes
for tile drains instead of cement pipes, and the execution of the tile drain-
age by contractors selected on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Both measures are aimed at accelerating the rate of construction which up to
now has been slow. With this new approach, it is expected that the project
will be completed in five years. Since tile drains cannot be installed before
remodelling of the existing and constructing of new main open drains, only an
area of 10,000 fed is expected to be equipped with tile drains during the
first year of the project. This will allow EPADP to gain experience in the
use of PVC pipes and to find appropriate solutions for technical details, to
be used in the rest of the area. The implementation rate would increase to
70,000 fed in the second year and 140,000 fed in each of the third, fourth and
fifth years.
iv.       The project costs are estimated to be US$282 million of which
US$276.7 million will be for the drainage works and US$5.3 million for the
Bilharzia control program. The foreign exchange component for the drainage
works is US$74.9 million while that for Bilharzia control is US$5.1 million,
totalling US$80 million. The Government has requested USAID to finance the
foreign exchange costs of the production of PVC plastic pipes estimated at
US$30 million. IDA and the Bank will finance foreign exchange costs of the



drainage works (US$44.9 million) and of equipment and materials for the ex-
tension of the Bilharzia control program (US$0.9 million) plus the value of
approximately 325 tons of molluscicide, to cover the cost overrun of the Upper
Egypt Drainage I project (US$4.2 million).
v.        The foreign exchange requirements financed by IDA and the Bank will
be for the procurement of equipment and materials and for the foreign costs of
contracts for civil works (tile drainage and erection of pumping station) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works not financed by IDA or the Bank
(remodelling and construction of open drains and buildings) will be awarded
following normal Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.
vi.       EPADP will be responsible for executing all drainage works and
for operation and maintenance. The Ministry of Agriculture will, in coop-
eration with EPADP, execute soil surveys and reclaim saline lands, and with
its Extension Service, will assist in project implementation and maintenance.
Bilharzia control operations will be administered by the Ministry of Health.
EPADP will be supported by consultants, to be financed under the Upper Egypt
Drainage I credit, who will advise and assist in planning and design of
drainage works, in the training of local staff, in the reclamation of saline
and/or alkali land and in water management practices.
vii.      It is expected that the proposed drainage works will prevent the
decline in land productivity due to the lack of drainage, and will also raise
the present yields by 15% to 35%. The gross value of incremental produc-
tion from the project at current farm gate prices, which are lower than
international prices, would rise to LE 21 million p.a. (US$53.3 million)
within 9 years of project commencement, an increase of 28% over the present
level. Additional benefits will accrue from arresting the decline in land
productivity. The economic rate of return for the whole project, excluding
Bilharzia control, is estimated to be 29%. A sensitivity analysis, with
foreign exchange valued at the official rate, lowers this rate of return to
27%. Increasing investment costs and on-farm costs by 20% simultaneously with
a decrease in value of benefits by 20% would lower the economic rate of return
to 20%.
viii.     The project will arrest the decline in farmers' incomes arising
from decreasing land productivity without the project. As a result of the
project, the average annual income of about 147,000 farmers will increase by
an estimated 51% from LE 232 (US$594) to LE 343 (US$878).
ix.       The necessary assurances having been obtained during negotiations,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$40 million on standard terms
and a Bank loan of US$10 million with a term of 25 years including 5 years of
grace. The borrower will be the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt has requested further
IDA and Bank assistance to help finance part of its high priority program to
improve drainage conditions throughout the country's irrigated area of more
than 6 miLlion feddan (fed), about 2.0 million of which are located in Upper
Egypt. In addition, IDA and Bank assistance has been requested to complete
the pilot program for the control of Bilharzia (schistosomiasis), commenced
under the first drainage project.
1.02      Improvement of drainage conditions in Egypt was started by the Gov-
ernment in 1960. By the end of 1975, about 650,000 fed had been provided
with tile drains with Government resources, 440,000 fed in the Nile Delta and
210,000 fed in Upper Egypt. In 1970, IDA made the first credit of US$26 mil-
lion to Egypt (Credit 181-UAR) for the tile drainage of 950,000 fed in the Nile
Delta. The project was expected to be completed by mid-1976, but due to the
1973 Middle East war and management problems, construction is about two and a
half years behind schedule. By the end of 1975 only 340,000 fed had been
provided wqith tile drainage. In 1973, IDA made a second credit of US$36.0
million (Credit 393-UAR) for the tile drainage of 300,000 fed in Upper Egypt
and for a pilot Bilharzia control program in an area of 900,000 fed in the
three northern governorates of Upper Egypt. Delays occurred again in the
implementation of this second IDA drainage project and by the end of 1975,
only 10,000 fed had been provided with tile drainage. Thus, the total area
provided with tile drainage by the end of 1975 by the Government alone and
through the two IDA credits was 1,000,000 fed.
1.03      The proposed third IDA/Bank drainage project will provide an addi-
tional area of 500,000 fed with tile drainage together with open main and
branch drains and one pumping station, necessary to remove drainage water.
It will also reclaim 12,000 fed of severely saline and/or alkali land.  All
project drainage works will be located in the eight governorates of Upper
Egypt (Map IBRD 12107). The project will also provide assistance for the
completion and extension of the Bilharzia control program undertaken under
the Upper Egypt Drainage I project. Poly-vinyl cloride (PVC) plastic pipes
will be used for tile drains and construction of tile drainage works will be
by contractors selected thirough international competitive bidding to acce-
lerate thc rate of implementation under a strengthened management.  The
project wilt he completedl in five years.
1.04      The UJorld Food Program (WFP) is supporting Government's tile drainage
operations by providing food assistance. During the year. 1968-73 this assis-
tnnce for Farmers in the NiLe Delta amounted to US$5.0 million; a second five-
year assistance program costing US$25.0 million started in February 1973. In
1975 WPF fturtlher agreed to make available food valued at US$15.5 million for
farmers in Upper Egypt. These programs, by providing nutritious food to



- 2 -
laborers at low cost, reduce Government outlays for local costs of all drain-
age projects.
1.05      With the previous and the present drainage projects it is expected
that by the end of this project (1981) some 2,400,000 fed will be provided
with tile drainage, which represents about 40% of the total irrigated area
in Egypt.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Egypt is a large desert country with a total land area of approxi-
mately 1 million km2. The populated area is 35,850 km2 (3.6%) and the cul-
tivated area approximately 28,120 k.m2 (2.8%). The cultivated area per capita
is estimated to be 0.19 feddans and based on 1960 data, the cultivated area per
farm, for the country as a whole, is 3.7 feddans.
Population
2.02      Egypt has a population of 36.6 million (mid-year 1974) with a current
population growth rate of 2.5% per annum. About 96% of the country is sparsely
populated. However, the remaining 4% located mainly in the Nile Delta and the
Nile Valley is densely populated, estimated to have over 1,000 persons per km2.
The per capita GNP for the country in 1970 was US$210 and for agriculture the
per capita GNP in the same year was only US$100. In 1974, the per capita GNP
for the country was US$280. The relative poverty level in rural areas of the
country is estimated to be US$58 per capita.
The Agticulture Sector 1/
2.03      The agricultural sector is extremely important to the life and eco-
nomy of the country. It provides 46% of employment opportunities, involves
57% of the population, gives rise to 31% of the GNP and is responsible for
75-85% of the foreign exchange earnings. During the 1955-65 period, agri-
culturaL production increased at the rate of 3.5 to 4.0% annually.  Around
1965, agricultural growth declined to around 2% and has since remained at
that level with dire consequences.  Concomitant with the declining rate of
growth, the demand for food has been rising due to an increase in population
and incomes. The net result has been a serious drain on foreign exchange
because of the large food imports.
2.04      Food import costs over the last few years have risen sharply from
less than LE 100 milLion to over LE 500 million annually.  Government sub-
sidies to supply basic foods in urban areas at low prices and certain produc-
tioln inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides to farmers at fixed prices
have also risen from about LE 50 million to nearly LE 500 million.  In spite
of tlhis, food prices have risen 60% since 1967.
1/   See World Bank report No. 931b-ECT, dated March 18, 1976 and entitled,
-"Egyptian Agriculture: Development Problems, Constraints and Alterna-
tives".



- 3 -
2.05      In 1970, the Aswan High 1)am was commissioned.  The harnessing
of the Nile River has enabled the farmers to shift from basin irrigation
to perennial irrigation, permitting a more intensive use of the land. The
present cropping ratio in the eight governorates in Upper Egypt is between
1.7 and 2.0.  Moreover, water availability permitted the Government to em-
bark on a program to reclaim desert land bringing the total to more than 6
million feddans available for cultivation. The development of these new
lands has not been as beneficial as anticipated.
2.06      The Land Reform act of 1952 and its subsequent amendments redis-
tributed one-sixth of the farming area among small farmers and provided
tenants with greater protection. As a result of land reform legislation
in 1952, 1961 and 1969, ownership of land is widely held in Egypt. Fifty-
seven percent of the cultivated land is in farms of less than 5 feddans.
The maximum holding is 50 feddans, or 100 feddans for a family. Only 12%
of the land (owned by 0.3% of the farmers) is in holdings of over 50 feddans.
The establishment of cooperatives to which tenants and owners belong, and other
support services such as the Extension Service were further moves by Government
to improve the life of the farmers. Unfortunately, at the village level, these
support services have not been as effective as desired for a number of reasons
such as complicated lines of authority, transportation limitations, pricing
policy for agricultural commodities and the high degree of centralization of
powers.
2.07      Growth in the agricultural sector since 1965 has been slow because
of a shortage of capital, constraints on the land, government policies on
prices and marketing of agricultural produce, regulated cropping patterns and
several other factors.
2.08      Government plans for the agricultural sector for the five-year
period 1976-80 have not been finalized. The report "Egyptian Agriculture -
Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives," summarizes future govern-
ment plans to the extent formulated to indicate that: (a) agriculture's
priority will rank behind infrastructure, industry and housing; (b) public
sector investments will increase in absolute amounts but decline as a propor-
tion of total investments; and (c) agricultural growth is not expected to be
substantial.
2.09      Sustaining and improving land productivity is a prime requisite for
maintaining and improving the life of the people. Recently, waterlogging and
salinity have become major constraints to maintaining and increasing land
productivity. These limiting factors to production are directly linked with
drainage. This has been recognized by government and the problem is being
attacked by the Ministry of Irrigation for tile drainage. The Ministry of
AgricuLtture is working on soil amelioration.
P'revioLus ID)A Drainage Projects in 1.gypt
2.10      The first I)A project (Nile Delta I)rainage I'roject) became effec-
tive in 1970.  IDA, through a credit of US$26.0 million, provided funds:
(a) for equipment for the construction or remodelling of main open drains



-4-
(1,700 km); (b) for equipment and erection of 11 new pumping stations; (c)
for tile making factories, tile laying machines, transport equipment, etc.
for tile drainage on 950,000 fed; and (d) for vehicles, workshops and
laboratory and office equipment. Up to the end of 1975 construction and
remodelling of main open drains had been completed on 560,000 fed., three
pumping stations had become operational while on four more the erection of
pumping units had started, and tile drains had been installed on 340,000 fed.
2.11      The second IDA project (Upper Egypt Drainage I) became effective in
1973. IDA, through a credit of US$36.0 million, provided funds: (a) for
equipment for the construction or remodelling of main open drains (1,640 km);
(b) for equipment and erection of 5 new pumping stations; (c) for tile laying
machines, transport equipment, etc. for tile drainage on 300,000 fed in six
Governorates of Upper Egypt; (d) for equipment for the reclamation of 20,000
fed of saline and/or alkali soils; (e) for vehicles, workshops, laboratory
and office equipment; and (f) for molluscicides, drugs and equipment for a
Bilharzia control program covering 900,000 fed. Up to the end of 1975 con-
struction and remodelling of main open drains had been completed on 133,000
fed., one pumping station had become operational while tender documents had
been prepared for the procurement of equipment and erection of the remaining
four, and tile drains had been installed on 10,000 fed. Satisfactory progress
has been made on the Bilharzia control program.
2.12      The slow performance in tile drainage has been due to the several
problems the two projects have faced. Among them the most serious have been
the lack of local funds and the shortage of engineers due to the 1973 war,
the shortage of cement for the production of cement tiles, the poor perform-
ance of local contractors and other managerial problems. However, during the
last year the Government has made sufficient allocations of funds to the
projects and the lack of local funds is no longer a problem. The shortage
of engineers no longer is a problem either as most of the engineers nominated
to EPADP have been released from the army. With these improvements and the
experience gained it is believed that the two ongoing projects will be com-
pleted by the end of 1979 and the end of 1980, respectively.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area covers the eight governorates in Upper Egypt,
namely, Giza, Fayum, Beni Suef, El Minya, Asyut, Sohag, Qena and Aswan (Map
IBRD 12107). The proposed drainage area of 500,000 feddans was identified
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, and the Ministry of
Irrigation as being urgently in need of drainage. The decision was based
on soil surveys and field observations of salinity, groundwater levels,
and crop performance.



-5-
Climate
3.02      The project is located in a dry zone with a cool winter period ex-
tending from November through March and a hot summer season from May to
September. From north (Beni Suef) to south (Aswan) the weather becomes
drier and warmer. The coolest month of the year is January with an average
mean temperature of 12oC in Beni Suef to 16oC in Aswan. The warmest period
in the north is in July with an average mean temperature of 290C, whereas
August is the hottest period in the south with an average mean of 340C. The
mean annual rainfall in the north is 11.3 mm and only 1.5 mm in the south.
Water for irrigation is supplied by the Nile, allowing the project area to
enjoy a year-round growing season (Annex 1).
Topography and Soils
3.03      In the valley extending from Aswan to Cairo through the project
area, the Nile flows through an old valley cutting between the rocky cliffs
of the Libyan Desert on the west and the Arabian Desert on the east. The
width of the alluvial Nile plains from Aswan to Cairo varies from 2 to 20 kms.
From the south northward, the absolute elevations of the plain surface decline
from 86 m near Aswan to 11 m near Cairo. The topography is generally flat
due to centuries of sediment deposition during the annual inundation of the
lands. The smooth terrain has been marred by excavations made by the removal
of soil for brick making and road construction. Remnants of old, abandoned
canals used in basin irrigation are still seen. Topographic surveys in Upper
Egypt have been extensive. Maps at a scale of 1:25,000 with ground level con-
tour intervals of 0.5 meter, to 1:100,000 with ground level contour inter-
vals of 1 meter are available.
3.04      Soils are formed from alluvial deposits and are generally fine-
textured, tending to be coarser from Sohag upstream towards Aswan. The allu-
vium varies from 4 to 15 m in thickness and overlies deep deposits of water-
bearing sands and gravels. The alluvial soils are relatively fertile but
with intensive use and the curtailment of further deposition of sediment,
nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizers are needed for high yields. Salinity
is a common problem throughout the valley, and all indications are that the
situation is becoming worse with time.
Drainage Conditions and Irrigation
3.05      Within the project area, the present drainage conditions result
from the shift from basin to perennial irrigation that has been made possible
by the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam. Prior to the harnessing of the
Nile, after the flood period, the water table would gradually become lower
until it reached 2 m or more below the soil surface. It would not rise again
until the following year's flood. During the interim, farmers, except on a
few farms with wells, never watered their fields. Howevcr, with perennial
irrigation, farmers now irrigate their land frequently thrcughout the year.
Since the clay soils in the project area have low permeability rates, the
groundwater levels have been rising over time especially in places where



- 6 -
new outlets have not been installed. The drainage system in existence
during basin irrigation prior to the changeover to perennial irrigation,
has not been able to cope with this additional quantity of water. Moreover,
seepage and deep percolation from the new irrigation canals have greatly con-
tributed to a rise in the groundwater levels in many areas. Seepage of water
from fields that are situated at higher levels than adjacent lands, also add
to groundwater level problems in the lower areas. The net result of the
change in groundwater level has been to create waterlogging conditions which
have serious deleterious effects on root growth and development. The project
is designed to keep the water table in the soil profile to not less than 1 m
from the surface. This would provide the proper environment for root develop-
ment of all crops (Annex 2).
Salinity Conditions
3.06      Aside from waterlogging, soil salinity has also increased.  Before
the shift in water regime due to the control of the Nile floods, the annual
inundation of the land would flush out the salts that built up in the soil
profile during the year. The clay soils most commonly found in the project
area have a high capillary conductivity potential. There is a strong upward
movement of moisture from the groundwater which is usually saline and the
soluble salts effloresce on the surface. The white, salt crust found in
patches is a common sight on many of the lands selected for tile drainage.
With the installation of drainage facilities provided for in the proposed
project, the soluble salts will be flushed by irrigation through the soil
profile and removed with the excess water. While cotton has a high salt
tolerance (not in the germination state, however), all of the other crops
have medium (wheat, sorghum, maize, onions, berseem and most vegetables) to
low (beans, sugarcane) salt tolerance. Severely affected saline and alkali
soils in the project amount to approximately 12,000 feddans on which growth
of crops has been impossible to maintain (Annex 2).
3.07      There is a definite correlation between the appearance and per-
formance of the crops (cotton, sugarcane, grains, vegetables, fruits) in the
field and the drainage and salinity status of the soils. From Aswan Governo-
rate through Giza Governorate, those crops on poorly drained and saline
soils were observed to be short, weak and chlorotic. In the same area, those
crops on well-drained soils (due either to the inherently good drainage
properties of the soils, the high aspect of the land, or the provision of
drainage facilities), were found to be tall, thick, growing vigorously, and
with leaves of deep green color.
3.08      Waterlogging and salinity have recently become the major limiting
factors to crop production in many areas. Without drainage facilities, it
has been estimated that average crop yields in the project area would decline
by at least 30% over the next 35 years.



-7-
Agricultural Production
3.09      A large number of crops are grown in the project area throughout
the year. Except for medium-long staple cotton, (1-1/8" to 1-3/8") and winter
onions, which are produced primarily for export, all of the crops grown are
for domestic consumption. Sugarcane, wheat, sorghum, maize, beans, vegetables,
berseem, oilseeds, lentils, and fruits such as oranges, grapes, and bananas
comprise the principal crops. The land used annually for cotton growing is
regulated by the government and it is the major crop in the northern part of
the project region, while sugarcane is the major crop in the south where
government sugar factories are located. Farming is intensive (cropping ratio
1.7-2.0) on small plots using perennial irrigation. The farmers use appro-
priate inputs such as fertilizers on most crops, and pesticides primarily on
cotton. Except for sugarcane, a two or three year crop rotation system is
practiced. Draft animals comprise the major source of farm power. Machinery
is used to a limited extent (Annex 4).
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.10      Within the project area, there are an estimated 147,000 farm fa-
milies. The average family consists of six persons. About 34% of thle hold-
ings are operated by the owner, 38% are rented, and 28% are mixed, owned alld
rented. The average farm size is 3.4 feddans with 75% of the holders farming
on less than 3 feddans on only 25% of the total land area. An additional 20%
of the holders farm between 3 and 5 feddans covering approximately 30% of thle
land area. Thirty five percent are holding less than 1 feddan with the aver-
age being 0.5 feddans on 5% of the land. Except for cotton an(i sugarcane,
which are farmed in consolidated blocks, land fragmentation is one of the
major factors prohibiting the use of advanced production techniques such as
farm machinery for land preparation, sowing and harvesting. The Agrarian
Reform Law of 1952 and the subsequent amendments have given tenants a high
degree of security and limit land ownership to 50 feddans for single persons
and 100 feddans per family (Annex 4).
AgriculturaL Support Services
3.11      The Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation provides a large
array of agencies to support the farmers and promote agricultural develop-
ment. The most significant agencies are the Agricultural Cooperative Organi-
zation and the Agricultural Extension Service.  All farmers, owners or ten-
ants, belong to their respective village farmers' cooperative society. The
Cooperative furnishes farmers with credit (in kind) for seed, fertilizers
and pesticides. A limited amount of cash is advanced for other costs such
as wages for harvesting, and marketing cotton. The village cooperative is
also the main channel for marketing farm produce. The Extension Service has
trained University graduates at the District level to provide assistance in
the production, protection, marketing and storage of farm crops. Although
the matrix of agencies for meeting the farmers' needs exists, these support



services lack the required effectiveness at the village level. To improve the
efficiency of the Extension Service, some vehicles, and other facilities will
be provided under the project (Annex 8).
Credit, Marketing, Transportation and Storage
3.12      Agricultural credit, more than 98% of it for seasonal crop expenses
(loans up to 14 months), flow from the General Organization for Agricultural
and Cooperative Credit (GOACC) through about 130 branch ACC banks which in
turn service about 4,000 village cooperatives. The banks also provide all
requisite farm inputs through the cooperative societies (Annex 9). A commis-
sion of 4-1/2% p.a. on all loans is charged by the cooperatives. For crop
loans, fixed amounts per feddan in kind (seeds, fertilizer) and cash are cal-
culated each year for each crop in each district, by consultation between the
GOACC and technical sections of the Ministry of Agriculture. Input levels are
based on research findings, and credit is adequate to support present input
and production levels. Total lending for the country reached LE 81.4 million
in 1975, or about LE 8 per feddan of crops. Under the Bank's Fruit and
Vegetable Project and the Second Bank of Alexandria Project, consultations
between the Government and the Bank took place regarding interest rates and
credit policy in Egypt. The results of these consultations will apply also
to the present project.
3.13      All seed cotton, specified proportions of wheat and rice output
must be delivered through the cooperatives at prices fixed each year by
Government. In addition, the Government sets offer prices for most other
commodities, many of which are also marketed through the cooperatives (Annex
9). Three major Government-established organizations handle most exports of
edible crops and sugarcane is delivered to local factories. Many crops are
stored in sacks in the open air, but deterioration is not a major problem
because of the dry climate.
3.14      The road and railway system, together with water transport on the
Nile, provide good connections with major consumption centers and ports, and
communications within the long, relatively narrow project area are satisfac-
tory. Marketing, transportation and processing facilities are adequate.
Agricultural Taxation
3.15      The land tax, which averages LE 3 - LE 4 per feddan, is levied
against estimated value of production from the land. A reassessment, which
takes 2 to 3 years to complete for the entire country, is carried out every
ten years. The tax is paid by the landowner, who has the right to increase
rent by the same amount as any increase in tax in the case where a tenant
works the land. The land tax is levied for irrigation, main drainage works,
health, and roads, and there has been an additional levy for defense purposes
in recent years.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The main objective of the project is to establish good drainage con-
ditions on 500,000 feddans in Upper Egypt. The drainage works will comprise
installation of field tile drains and drain collectors throughout the area,
construction of new open main drains, remodelling of the existing drains and
erection of one pumping station to serve an area where drainage by gravity
is not possible. An estimated 12,000 feddans, now severely saline and partly
alkaline, will be reclaimed. The proposed drainage works will prevent
the present decline in land productivity due to the lack of drainage, and
will result in a net increase of present yields by 15-35Z. The drain-
age works will be executed by the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP).
4.02      The present project differs from previous IDA drainage projects
in Egypt (Nile Delta Drainage Project and Upper Egypt Drainage I Project) in
two respects: the use for tile drains of Poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) corrugated
pipe instead of cement pipes, and the execution of the tile drainage through
international competitive bidding, both aimed at accelerating the rate of
construction which up to now has not been satisfactory. With the new approach
it is expected that the project will be completed in five years.
Project Drainage and Reclamation Works
4.03      The project works (Annex 3) include:
(a) installation of about 50,000 km of buried field drains
of PVC corrugated pipes and 6,000 km of buried field col-
lectors of cement pipes in the selected areas totaling
500,000 feddans;
(b) deepening and widening of about 1,226 km of existing, and exca-
vation of about 346 km of new open drains, involving
approximately 23 million m3 of excavation;
(c) construction of one pumping station of a capacity of 3.5 m3/sec,
including electric transmission line; and
(d) reclamation by leaching of about 12,000 feddans of saline
soils distributed throughout the area to be drained, in-
cluding subsoiling and gypsum application in about two thirds
of this area where soils are alkaline.
4.04      The selection of the areas for tile drainage was made on the basis
of present drainage conditions, possibilities for evacuation of drainage
water, and availability of maps and soil surveys. Tile drains will be
installed at a spacing varying from 25 to 60 m (average 42 m) and at a depth
of 1.4 m to 1.8 m.  The laterals will be about 200 m long and will discharge



- 10 -
into cement piped collector drains, which will evacuate the drainage water
into open main drains. With the installation of tile drains the water table
is expected to fall to at least 1 m below the surface within two to three days
following an irrigation and to 1.25 m subsequently. The above design criteria
will be reviewed during the first year of the project before final plans are
prepared. Vertical drainage with tubwells is not recommended as the available
data indicate that this type of drainage cannot be considered as an economical
alternative to the parallel drainage with covered pipes.
4.05      Because of the urgent need for accelerating the drainage program
in Egypt and the recently observed scarcity of local labor, further mechan-
ization of operations is necessary. Production of PVC pipes will be fully
mechanized by using automatic plants for continuous production. Laying of
tile drains will be accomplished by using the same trenching machines as used
for cement pipes. Trenchless laying machines are not recommended because the
required depth of tile drains (up to 1.80 m) combined with the soil conditions
in Egypt (mostly clay soils with high moisture content) make doubtful the
suitability of these machines. However, if during the first year of the
project it is proved through tests that trenchless machines can be used
successfully and economically, contractors will be allowed to use this type of
machine in the remaining project area. For the piped collectors, special
heavy duty machines are recommended for excavation and laying. One of these
machines has been purchased recently under the Upper Egypt Drainage I project
for testing. If the results are satisfactory, the use of these machines will
be expanded. Excavation and remodelling of main open drains will be done with
draglines and excavators. Hand labor will still be used for manufacturing
cement collector pipes (using semi-mechanized procedures), for excavation and
remodelling of small open drains, and for laying the gravel filter.
4.06      The project will provide vehicles, equipment and materials for
drainage works, land reclamation, agricultural extension and for training.
4.07      Soil conditions and lack of field experience in laying PVC pipes
in Egypt, need to be considered when formulating the tile drainage program.
Since tile drains cannot be installed before remodelling of the existing and
construction of new main open drains, only 10,000 feddans are expected to be
tile drained during the first year of the project. During this period and
subsequently, EPADP will:
(a) gain experience in the production and use of PVC pipes;
(b) test the efficacy and output of the tile laying machines
using PVC pipes and cement pipe collectors;
(c) find appropriate solutions for the connection of PVC pipes
to the cement pipe collectors, finalize depth, spacing and
pipe diameter for tile drains, diameter and spacing of
openings, type of filter, and type of manholes for the
cement pipe collectors; and
(d) study and finalize procedures for the maintenance and cleaning
of PVC tile drains and cement pipe collectors.



- 11 -
The above studies will continue for at least two years and will be carried out
with the assistance of expatriate consultants. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
4.08      An evaluation of the effect on crop yields and soil properties of
drainage works, completed under the two previous IDA financed projects, will
be undertaken by EPADP and completed within two years of the date of effective-
ness. A similar evaluation will be undertaken for drainage works included in
the present project. Within one year EPAD will present to IDA and the Bank a
progress report on the evaluation activities which will include the data and
preliminary analyses thereon. Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations.
Bilharzia Control
4.09      Within the project area, particularly in the northern region,
Bilharzia is endemic. In Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, a program for
the control of Bilharzia, covering 900,000 feddans and about 3 million people
has been initiated. It consists of an integrated snail control program
coupled with chemotherapy for infected persons. The existing Bilharzia proj-
ect comprises the area controlled by the Ibrahimia and Bahr Yousef canals
commencing at the Dairut Barrage which is downstream of the head regulator at
Asyut on the Nile. About 120,000 feddans between Asyut and Dairut Barrages
(see Map IBRD 12115), will be included in the Bilharzia program to permit
the whole area served from the Asyut barrage to be treated, thereby reducing
the possibility of reinfecting treated areas. The proposed credit and loan
will also include provisions for financing the cost overrun of the Bilharzia
control component of Upper Egypt Drainage I project (Annex 12).
Status of Engineering
4.10      A detailed soil survey covering about one half of the project area
and a semi-detailed soil survey covering the remaining portion were conducted,
and published in 1971. 1/ Additional work has been done subsequently and ap-
proximately two-thirds of the project area has now been covered by a detailed
soil survey. The Ministry of Agriculture, during the first year of the proj-
ect, will complete a detailed soil survey of the remaining one third of the
project area. Field investigations for the detailed design of tile drainage
will be conducted during project implementation by EPADP's existing design
office for Upper Egypt. Detailed designs for the excavation and remodelling
of open main drains have been prepared for approximately 40% of the project
area. As the excavation and remodelling of open drains should be completed at
the end of the third year, the design for the remaining 60% of the area will
be prepared by EPADP during the first two years of the project. Final plans
for the pumping station will be prepared by the supplier-contractor to the
specifications and for the approval of EPADP.
1/ Soil Survey Study, General Report, August 1971, Ministry of Irrigation,
ARE.



- 12 -
Consulting Services
4.11      The Egyptian Government has been granted technical assistance from
the Dutch Government for consulting services in the field of water management
and drainage of agricultural land. A joint panel of Dutch and Egyptian con-
sultants has been set up to advise EPADP on technical problems related to
the implementation of the drainage program and to formulate a program of spe-
cific investigations (drainage methods, establishment of monitoring drainage
systems, water management, etc.). The panel meets 3-4 times a year for a
duration of 1-2 weeks. Emphasis should be given to water management studies
as the drainage problem in Egypt could be made less acute with proper water
use for irrigation. EPADP will require additional advice and assistance in
using PVC pipes for tile drainage with cement pipe collector drains and for
training local staff in the new techniques involved. Three full-time con-
sultants will be required, each for a period of three years for this purpose,
plus short-term specialists to meet other needs. No funds are provided under
the project for consulting services, as sufficient funds have been already
provided for this purpose and not used yet under the Upper Egypt Drainage I
project. Details and terms of reference for consultants are given in Annex 5.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government and EPADP that
no less than three consultants will be engaged by EPADP as and when needed for
a period of three years, with qualifications and experience, and under terms
and conditions of employment, satisfactory to IDA and the Bank.
Construction Schedule
4.12      The project will provide a sufficient number of excavating machines
to complete the excavation and remodelling of open main drains within the first
three years. Laying of tile drains will commence during the first year with
10,000 feddans and will continue with 70,000 feddans in the second year. In
the third, fourth and fifth years of the project the annual rate of tile
drainage will reach 140,000 feddans. Construction of the pumping station
would commence in the second year with the pumps being installed during the
third year. Reclamation of saline land will begin in the third year, follow-
ing completion of tile drainage. The implementation of open and tile drainage
works is estimated to proceed as follows:
Calendar Year                1977     1978      1979      1980      1981     Total
Open drains (feddans)    170,000  170,000   160,000         -         -     500,000
Tile drainage (feddans)   10,000   70,000   140,000  140,000  140,000  500,000
With the equipment provided under the project, the use of PVC plastic pipes
and the use of foreign contractors through ICB for tile drainage, the pro-
posed rates of construction are reasonable. However, the tile drainage
installation rates could be adversely affected by delays in the construction
and remodelling of open drains and erection of the pumping station. There-
fore, timely awards of contracts for open drains and pumping stations will
be made. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Table 2, Annex 3 shows the overall construction schedule for drainage works



- 13 -
in Egypt and Chart IBRD 15753 shows the implementation schedule of the pre-
sent project, which was also agreed to by the Government during negotia-
tions. EPADP is expected to review, in consultation with IDA and the Bank,
its proposed drainage program for each year, taking into consideration total
areas drained under all ongoing projects during the preceding year, facilities
and equipment available and other relevant factors.
Cost Estimates
4.13      The total project cost is estimated on the basis of end 1975 con-
tract prices to be US$282 million excluding custom duties. The foreign
exchange component of the project is estimated at US$80 million of which it
is expected that US$30 million will be financed by the USAID, US$40 million by
an IDA credit and US$10 million by a Bank loan. Cost estimates of equipment
and raw material for the production of PVC plastic pipes are based on price
information from the USA. Estimates of costs for PVC pipes produced in Egypt
with allowance for overhead costs, contractor's profit and risk, are based on
detailed calculations under Egyptian conditions. Cost estimates for construc-
tion and remodelling of open drains and pumping station are based on recent
unit prices of awarded contracts to local contractors under the Upper Egypt
Drainage I project. Cost estimates for laying tile drains and construction of
concrete pipe collectors by foreign contractors are based on current unit
prices of awarded contracts to local contractors, adjusted for the PVC plastic
pipes and allowing for overhead cost and international contractors' profit and
risk.
4.14      A physical contingency of about 10% for equipment and 15% for civil
works to cover changes in amount of work and unforeseen costs has been in-
cluded. A price contingency also has been included, calculated on the basis
of a price factor increase for equipment of 9% for 1976, 8% for 1977, and 7%
p.a. for 1978-79; and for civil works of 13% for 1976, 12% for 1977, and 10%
p.a. for 1978-81. Detailed estimates of the project cost are given in Annex 6
and summarized below:



- 14 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---- LE million -----  ---- US$ million ----          %
A. Production of PVC
Pipes
Equipment & materials 0.1    7.2          7.3      0.2    18.4    18.6        99
Production cost         1.1    1.2        2.3      2.7      3.1      5.8      53
Contingencies
(a)  Physical /1       0.1    1.0        1.1      0.4      2.5      2.9      86
(b)  price             0.8    2.3        3.1      2.1      6.0      8.1      74
Subtotal             2.1   11.7       13.8      5.4    30.0    35.4        85
B. Drainage Works
Equipment & materials  -        7.0       7.0      -       17.9    17.9    100
Civil works            41.1    4.8       45.9   105.1      12.3   117.4       10
Administration          4.3      -        4.3    11.0        -      11.0      -
Contingencies
(a) physical /1        6.8    1.4        8.2    17.4       3.6    21.0       17
(b) price             24.6    4.3       28.9    62.9    11.1    74.0         15
Subtotal            76.8   17.5       94.3   196.4    44.9   241.3         18
C. Bilharzia Control
Equipment                -      0.05      0.05      -       0.1      0.1    100
Molluscicides            -      0.3       0.3       -       0.7      0.7    100
Administration          0.05    -         0.05    0.1        -       0.1      -
Contingencies           0.05   0.05       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2      50
Cost overrun of
Upper Egypt Drain-
age I Project /2        -      1.6       1.6       -       4.2      4.2    100
Subtotal             0.1    2.0        2.1      0.2      5.1      5.3      96
GRAND TOTAL               79.0   31.2    110.2   202.0    80.0   282.0    28.4
/1   Physical contingencies 10% for equipment and 15% for civil works.
/2   Cost for 325 tons of molluscicides.
Financing
4.15       The Government has requested USAID assistance to provide equipment
and materials and finance the foreign exchange cost for the production of PVC
pipes at the rate required. The foreign exchange cost of equipment, and civil
works for drainage and of molluscicide and equipment for the Bilharzia control



- 15 -
program (including the cost overrun for molluscicide of US$4.2 million of
the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project) will be financed by IDA and the Bank.
As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit and Bank loan, the Govern-
ment will have entered into the USAID loan agreement.
4.16      The proposed financing plan is shown below:
LE million   US$ million   Project Cost
Cofinancier (USAID)
Foreign cost for production
of PVC pipes                            11.7           30           10.6
IDA Credit
Foreign cost for drainage works
and Bilharzia control                   15.6           40           14.2
IBRD Loan
Foreign cost for drainage works
and Bilharzia control                    3.9           10            3.5
Government
Local costs                                78.9         202           71.7
Total                                  110.1          282          100.0
Custom duties                            3.1            8
The proposed IDA credit and Bank loan would contribute US$50 million of which
US$44.9 million is for drainage works and US$5.1 million is for Bilharzia con-
trol (including the cost overrun for molluscicide of US$4.2 million of the
Upper Egypt Drainage I Project). The cofinancier (USAID) will contribute
US$30 million for the production of PVC pipes and the Government will provide
the balance of US$202 million equivalent in local currency. In addition, Gov-
ernment will bear the cost of custom duties estimated at US$8 million equi-
valent. The total local funds required to be allocated by the Government
for the three Bank drainage projects (including the present) are shown in
Table 14, Annex 6.
Procurement and Contracts
4.17      The procurement of equipment and raw material and the financing of
the foreign exchange cost for the production of PVC plas.ic pipes will be done
in accordance with the agreement between the cofinancier ai.d Government. Con-
tractors will be required to provide experienced operators and mechanics to
train Egyptian staff in the use of the PVC manufacturing plants.



- 16 -
4.18      Tile laying and construction of collectors will be implemented
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
for procurement. The contractors who will participate in the bidding would
be invited to submit a list of new equipment they intended to import into the
country for the execution of the contract in accordance with the construction
schedule. This equipment, if approved by the Government, would be imported
under temporary exemption from import duties, pursuant to the applicable law.
The Government will advance to the contractors the approximate value of the
equipment in the form of a mobilization award. Upon completion of the con-
tract the Government would have the option to buy the used equipment if it is
in acceptable condition at prices calculated on the basis of their residual
value. In the event that Government and a contractor do not agree to an
equipment transaction, the contractor could either sell the equipment pri-
vately on the local market (in which case he will be required to pay import
duties) or retain the equipment and remove it from the country. Contractors
would be required to provide evidence of their previous experience in the
relevant field and furnish experienced operators and mechanics to train
Egyptian personnel in the use of the imported equipment. Tender documents
for these contracts will be prepared by EPADP and reviewed by IDA and the
Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.19      Project equipment, apart from the contractor's equipment mentioned
above, will be procured directly by EPADP through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. International bids will also be
obtained for the procurement of pumping equipment and installation of pumps,
as well as for the equipment and materials for the electrical transmission
line which will be constructed by the Egyptian General Electricity Corporation.
Local manufacturers or processors will be allowed a preference of 15% or the
actual custom duties on imported components, whichever is the lower, when the
domestic value added is 20% or more. Assurances on the above procurement
procedures were obtained during negotiations. Details on project equipment
and materials are in Annex 8.
4.20      Contracts for construction and remodelling of open main drains, land
reclamation and buildings will not be financed by IDA or the Bank and will be
awarded to local contractors in accordance with the normal procurement pro-
cedures of Government, which are satisfactory. Contracts will include
provision for the delivery by EPADP to the contractors of imported equipment
together with adequate spare parts. The terms and conditions on which IDA/Bank
financed equipment will be sold or lent to contractors have been established
by EPADP for the ongoing IDA projects and found acceptable.
4.21      EPADP will prepare specifications and tender documents and will
present them to the Bank for comment before issue. EPADP's evaluation of bids
and recommendations for award will be sent to IDA and the Bank for approval.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 17 -
Disbursement
4.22      The proposed credit of US$40 million and loan of US$10 million will
be disbursed over a five-year period (Annex 6, Table 13) as follows:
Drainage and Reclamation Equipment
-    The actual foreign exchange costs of directly imported goods,
representing about US$20.95 million.
Civil Works (Pump Station and Drain Laying)
-    The actual foreign exchange expenditures in awarded contracts,
and 25% of local expenditures under contracts that do not identify
foreign expenses, representing about US$20.30 million.
Equipment for Offices, Laboratories and Extension Service
-    The actual foreign exchange costs of directly imported goods,
or 100% of ex-factory cost if locally manufactured, or 80% of
total cost if locally procured, representing about US$0.45 million.
Equipment for the Bilharzia Control Program
-    The actual foreign exchange costs of directly imported goods,
or 100% of ex-factory cost if locally manufactured, or 80% of total
cost if locally procured, representing about US$0.08 million.
Molluscicides for the Bilharzia Control Program
-    The actual foreign exchange costs of directly imported goods, re-
presenting about US$4.95 million.
Unallocated
-    Representing about US$3.27 million.
Disbursement requests will be separate for drainage works and Bilharzia con-
trol and will be supported by full documentation. Any savings after completion
for either of the two components of the project would be cancelled.
4.23      The proposed schedule of disbursement, given in Annex 6, Table 13,
is summarized below. Government budget allocations, including custom duties
on project imports are also shown.



- 18 -
Egyptian fiscal Year           1977      1978      1979     1980      1981    Total
Project Year                     1         2         3         4        5
----------- US$ million -------------------
Cofinancier (USAID)
Production of PVC pipes
for tile drains              9.3      12.4       4.8       1.7       1.8      30.0
IDA credit and Bank loan
(a) drainage works          12.8      11.7       7.5       6.3       6.6      44.9
(b) Bilharzia control        3.0       2.1        -         -         -        5.1
Subtotal              15.8      13.8       7.5      6.3       6.6      50.0
Government contribution
(a) drainage works /1       40.9      55.3      50.8      26.6      28.2    201.8
(b) Bilharzia control        0.1       0.1       -          -         -        0.2
Subtotal              41.0     55.4       50.8     26.6      28.2    202.0
TOTAI                 66.1      81.6      63.1      34.6     36.6    282.0
_ =  -                        -
Customs duties        3.9        3.3       0.8                         8.0
/_   Including production of PVC pipes.
Environmental Impact
4.24      The implementation of the project will have a very favorable effect
on the environment because of its land improvement and Bilharzia control pro-
grams. The improvement in the drainage system will lower the water table,
arrest yield decline, and improve plant growth. Moreover, it would restore
crops on a fairly large area of land which is now covered with tough grasses
and shrubs (unproductive plants) due to excessive salinity and alkalinity.
4.25      The Bilharzia control component of the project will improve the
health and well-being of the people. Through the use of molluscicides, the
vector snails of schistosomiasis, now found in the canals and drains, will
be destroyed. Although the molluscicide to be used (Bayluscide) may kill some
fish in the water when first applied, the fish can be eaten by humans without
harmful effects. The chemical is biodegradable. The chemotherapy treatment
of the population infected by bilharzia will also help to reduce the incidence
of this serious debilitating disease.



- 19 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Authority Responsible for Drainage Works
5.01      The Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) estab-
lished by Presidential Decree in 1973, will be the Government organization
responsible for all drainage works (Chart IBRD 15754). EPADP is empowered to
carry out field investigations, planning, design, procurement, construction,
budgeting and operation of project accounts. The responsibility for planning,
design and execution of drainage works rests with the Vice Chairman for Upper
Egypt, who is a member of the Board, assisted by a deputy who has the author-
ity to act in his absence. A separate design office, attached to the Upper
Egypt Vice Chairman, is responsible for detailed design of project works.
Field supervision of drainage works in Upper Egypt will be carried out by the
Directors General of the eight Governorates of Giza, Fayum, Beni Suef, El Minya,
Asyut, Sohag, Qena and Aswan. A mechanical department of EPADP is responsible
for supervising the installation of the pumping station and transmission lines
and for maintenance workshops, project stores and mechanical equipment of the
Authority.
5.02      Procurement will be the responsibility of the Administration and
Finance Department of EPADP, and an ad hoc committee composed of the Chairman,
the Vice Chairman for Upper Egypt and the head of the Technical Office of
EPADP will approve specifications prepared by the design office, and will
also evaluate bids and make recommendations for award. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a qualified and experienced chairman for
EPADP and a qualified and experienced vice chairman for Upper Egypt will
continue to serve at all times and on a full-time basis.
5.03      Soil studies, collection of data on crop yields, and the reclamation
of saline and alkali lands will be undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The participation of the Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture in
the Drainage program is essential. Extension agents should communicate more
effectively with farmers on the subject of drainage and should collaborate
with the drainage maintenance units to assure farmers' cooperation. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that all measures necessary will be
taken to provide adequate coordination between Extension Service and EPADP
at National, Governorate and District level, including formulation of plans
for joint activities and initiation of programs to train extension personnel
in all aspects of the drainage program. Receipt of evidence that the above
measures have been taken is a condition of effectiveness.
Supervision of the Bilharzia Control Program
5.04      The Ministry of Health will be responsible for the planning, execu-
tion, and supervision of the Bilharzia control program. This new program, ac-
ceptable to IDA and the Bank, will be prepared within six months of the date
of effectiveness. It will be an addition to the ongoing program now in force
in Upper Egypt Drainage I, and will have the same program director, other key



- 20 -
personnel and plan of operation. The application of molluscicide will be
closely supervised by the Snail Control Department of the same ministry.
The Ministry of Irrigation will provide all the required information such as
flow rates in the canals and drains. The chemotherapy treatment of infected
persons will be conducted by the Ministry of Health as well as all bioassay
checks and chemical analyses. Data on control effectiveness will be collected
by the supervision and evaluation unit, established in the Ministry of Health.
This unit, maintained to the satisfaction of IDA and the Bank, will have the
responsibility of the supervision and evaluation of the Bilharzia control
program. Assurances on all the above were obtained during negotiations.
Operation and Maintenance
5.05      The contractors will be responsible for the maintenance of the
pumping station and the tile drainage works during the first year after
completion. Following formal acceptance by EPADP, the completed works will
be handed over to the operation and maintenance units recently established.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the necessary funds, staff,
equipment and transportation facilities for the maintenance of all drainage
works will be provided by the Government.
5.06      In order to facilitate the maintenance of tile drains and collectors,
40 drainage maintenance equipment units will be provided under the project.
Each unit comprises flushing pump and engine, hoses and other similar equip-
ment and tools.
5.07      Operation and maintenance costs for drainage works have been revised
to reflect recent cost increases. The annual O&M cost for drainage pumping 1/
is now estimated at LE 0.63 per feddan (US$1.60); for maintenance of open
drains, LE 0.70 per feddan (US$1.80); and for maintenance of tile drainage, LE
0.63 per feddan (US$1.60). In total, the annual O&M cost for the project
area of 500,000 feddans is estimated at LE 680,000 (US$1,747,000) (Annex 7).
Services and Training
5.08      For planning, design of drainage works, supervision of construction
by contractors and administration, the central and regional offices of EPADP
will require additional technical staff. It is estimated that 40 civil en-
gineers, 100 technicians, 12 mechanical engineers and 30 mechanics and elec-
tricians will be required in addition to the existing staff for project im-
plementation. No difficulties are anticipated in recruiting these personnel,
as more engineers have been recently released from the army. In addition,
EPADP pays to the field engineers a special field allowance plus an annual
bonus to attract them to work in the Authority. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the existing policy for incentives to EPADP staff
will be continued.
1/   Applies to only 29,600 feddans.



- 21 -
5.09      Because of the lack of experience of local staff in the new drainage
technology adopted with the present project, contractors of PVC pipe plants
and laying of tile drainage, and suppliers of pumping station equipment will be
required to train the local staff in the operation, maintenance and repair of
their equipment. To train engineers and technicians of the project in tile
drainage practices, and operators and mechanics in the proper operation and
maintenance of the project equipment, EPADP will implement a training program,
and within six months of the date of effectiveness will present it for review
by IDA and the Bank. A training center will be established in Upper Egypt by
the Government and training equipment will be provided under the project.
Instructors for the training courses will comprise experienced Egyptian en-
gineers, consultants to EPADP and contractors' personnel. Assurances on the
above were obtained during negotiations. No funds are provided under the
project for training abroad, as sufficient funds have been already allocated
for this purpose under the previous two drainage projects.
Cost Recovery
5.10      The following provisions will be made for recovery of project costs:
(a) In accordance with the October 1971 irrigation and drainage
law (No. 74), the capital costs of installing field tile
drains, plus a 10% administrative charge, will be recovered
from beneficiaries, whether owners or tenants, by annual
installments over a period of not more than 20 years, the
first installment being due not later than three years
following completion of project works;
(b) The maintenance costs of field tile drains will be recovered
through the land tax, which will be reassessed within two
years of completion of drainage works on project lands.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above provisions will be
made for recovering project costs. It is expected that the Government, within
one year will undertake and complete a study of the possibility of adjusting
recovery charges periodically to ensure recovery of capital, operation and
maintenance costs of tile drainage works with interest. This study will take
into account changes in prices, farmer's incentives and ability to pay. There
will be no recovery of the capital and maintenance costs of the main open
drainage network and pumping stations, which will be financed from general
revenues. Farmers contribute heavily to general revenues through the adminis-
trated prices for agricultural products, which are considerably lower than
international prices.
5.11      Of the total project cost of US$282 million, an estimated US$151
million, or 54%, will be recovered from beneficiaries in the annual install-
ments mentioned above. This represents the total estimated cost of PVC pipe
production, laying of PVC pipe and cement collectors, and land reclamation,
with a 10% administrative charge added to the total. It is estimated that
increases in the land tax will be sufficient to recover the annual operation
and maintenance costs of tile drains of about US$0.8 million.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audit
5.12      A cost-accounting system in the EPADP will be set up as required
in the previous IDA-financed drainage projects. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that a similar cost-accounting system will be instituted for
the current project within six months of the date of effectiveness of the
credit and loan.
5.13      Separate project accounts will be established and maintained by the
EPADP for drainage works and by the Ministry of Health for the Bilharzia con-
trol program. These accounts will be audited annually by the Government's
Central Organization for Accounting and Audit, and copies of each audit
report in English will be submitted to IDA and the Bank within four months
after the end of each Egyptian fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
6.01      The present project will arrest the steady and persistent decline
in yields due to waterlogging and salinity. It will also bring about a
substantial increase in agricultural production on the 500,000 fed that will
he drained. At full development, yield increases due to the project are
expected to stabilize at 15 to 35% above present levels.
6.02      Estimates of present and projected production of the major crops
in the project area are presented below. Additional details are in Annex 4.
With Project          Without Project
Present      Year 10 Onwards       Year 10    Year 35
---------- 000 tons ---------------------
Cotton (lint)                   31              39                 28          21
Sugar Cane                  1,596            1,891              1,441       1,117
Wheat                          117             162                105          82
Maize                          198             252                179         139
Sorghum                        178             229                161         125
Onions                          51              71                 46          36
Beans and other
Legumes                      53               74                 48          37
Vegetables                     332             421                300         232
'---------------  '000 Feddans -
Total Area of                  874             895                750
--------------- % of Project Area --------------
Cropping Intensity             1.75           1.79               1.50



- 23 -
Markets and Prices
6.03      No problems are foreseen in marketing the additional output of
various crops (details are in Annex 9). Additional wheat will partly sub-
stitute for large expected imports. For sugar, Egypt has experienced a change
from a situation of modest net exports to a significant level of net imports,
and additional project output will help to restore the former situation.
Additional onions will be exported to European markets, assisting the country
to arrest the recent decline in exports resulting from decreased production.
Increases in cotton production will be readily absorbed both on the export
market, where Egyptian cotton has a high reputation, and for domestic textile
manufacture, which has taken up an increasing proportion of cotton output in
recent years. Additional maize, sorghum, legumes and vegetables will be ab-
sorbed locally, with some vegetables (particularly tomatoes) adding marginally
to exports. No problems are foreseen with storage, processing and transporta-
tion of the additional project output.
6.04      Prices for farm inputs and outputs of the project are based on
current farmgate prices received in the project area (Annex 9, Tables 4
and 5). The markets are subject to extensive Government control, and local
prices, both at the farmgate and retail, are generally significantly below
those encountered in the international market. For economic analysis, local
prices are adjusted based on projections provided by the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department, making allowances for known subsidies
and also incorporating effects of a shadow foreign exchange rate (Annex 11,
Table 2).
Producer Income
6.05      At full development of the project (about 3 years after installation
of drainage structures for any individual farmer), the annual net return of a
farmer with a 3.1 feddan owner-operated holding will have increased from LE 291
(US$745) to about LE 376 (US$963), while for a 1.7 feddan tenant holding the
net return would have increased from LE 132 (US$338) to LE 176 (US$451). Since
without the project crop yields and incomes would decline, these increases
understate the total benefits accruing to farmers as a result of the drainage
works. Illustrative budgets for model farms are presented in Annex 10.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Aggregate Economic Return
7.01      The project will give rise, at full development, to a stream of
benefits whose annual incremental net economic value is estimated to be LE 38
million (US$64 million). This represents the increased crop production
realized by improved drainage on about 488,000 feddans of land, together with
new crops grown on 12,000 feddans of reclaimed land (previously unproductive),
with a deduction of incremental operating costs involved. In addition, the
project will arrest declining production on the same lands, and the net annual
economic value of this is estimated to be LE 14 million (US$25 million) by



- 24 -
year 10 and LE 48 million (US$82 million) by year 35. All increments and
decrements to crop production have been valued with forecast world market
prices adjusted to farm gate levels using the parallel market rate for for-
eign exchange at the time of appraisal (LE I = US$1.70) (Annex 11, Table 2).
7.02      The economic rate of return, based on the above benefits and a 35
year project life, is estimated to be 29%, using the parallel market rate for
foreign exchange. If the benefits were decreased by 20%, and simultaneously
both the project investment costs and on-farm incremental costs were increased
by 20%, the economic rate of return would fall to 20%. The rate of return is
high because of the nature of the project, conceptually an exercise in deferred
maintenance. When a sensitivity analysis is performed using the official ex-
change rate (LE 1 = US$2.56) the economic rate of return falls to an estimated
27% (Annex 11).
7.03      Labor required to implement project works and services is esti-
mated to be approximately 9.4 million mandays during the five year project
implementation period, with a continuing need for about 0.3 million mandays
per annum for operation and maintenance. On farms, the project could increase
labor use by about 12%, or 5 million mandays per year at full development,
mainly during the harvest periods. An increase of a further I million mandays
could be associated with the development of 12,000 feddans of land currently
not in crops (Annex 11).
Beneficiaries
7.04      The project is expected to benefit about 147,000 farm families or
about 882,000 persons, mainly occupying small farms. It is estimated that
present farm incomes, after deduction of taxes and charges, are about LE 291
(US$745) per annum for owner-cultivator families and about LE 132 (US$338) for
tenant families, in the area to be tile drained. The relative poverty level
in rural areas of Egypt is estimated to be US$58 per capita. About 50% of the
farmers in the project area are estimated to have incomes at present less than
this figure. As a result of the project, farm incomes after 10 years (3-4
years for individual farmers) will be raised to LE 376 (US$963) per annum for
owner-cultivator families and LE 176 (US$451) for tenant families, from drain-
age works alone. Further benefits will accrue to farmers whose presently un-
cropped land will be restored to production. Without the project, significant
declines in farm incomes over present levels would be experienced.
VIII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  During the first year of the project EPADP will install PVC
pipe drains in an area of about 10,000 feddans for the pur-
pose of carrying out, with the assistance of consultants,
technical and costing studies which will last for at least
two years (para 4.07);



- 25 -
(b) Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works for
tile drainage and erection of pumps will be procured through
international competitve bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. EPADP will take all steps required on its part
to award all contracts in such a way as to ensure the timely
execution of the project (paras 4.12, 4.18 and 4.19);
(c) Both the post of Chairman of EPADP and the post of Vice-
chairman for Upper Egypt will be filled at all times by
qualified and experienced persons on a full-time basis (para
5.02);
(d) The Government will provide the necessary funds, staff, equip-
ment and transportation facilities for the maintenance of all
drainage works (para 5.05);
(e) The Government will make suitable arrangements to ensure the
recovery from the beneficiaries of: (i) the capital costs
of installing field tile drains, plus a 10% administrative
charge, by annual installments over a period of no more than
20 years, the first installment being due not later than three
years following completion of project works; and (ii) the
maintenance cost of field tile drains through the land tax,
which will be reassessed within two years of completion of
drainage works on project lands (para 5.10);
(f) A cost-accounting system in the EPADP will be set up, as re-
quired in the previous IDA-financed drainage projects, within
six months of the date of effectiveness of the credit and
loan (para 5.12); and
(g) Separate project accounts will be established and maintained
by the EPADP for drainage works and by the Ministry of Health
for the Bilharzia control program (para 5.13).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit and loan are:
(a)  The Government will enter into a loan agreement with USAID
for the procurement of equipment and materials and for fi-
nancing the foreign exchange cost of the production of PVC
pipes for tile drainage at the rate required (para 4.18);
and
(b) The Government will take all measures necessary to provide
adequate coordination between the Extension Service of the
Ministry of Agriculture and EPADP, at National, Government
and District levels (para 5.03).



- 26 -
8.03.    The project is technically feasible, economically sound and finan-
cially viable. Having received the necessary assurances, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$40 million on standard terms and for a Bank
loan of US$10 million for a term of 25 years, including a 5-year grace
period. The borrower will be the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Climatological Data
General
1.        The entire country of Egypt lies in the temperate zone between 220
and 320 north latitude. It is part of the vast desert belt which extends in
Northern Africa from the Atlantic Coast eastward through Saudi Arabia. It is
a dry, arid country with sub-tropical temperatures prevailing throughout the
land. The Nile, flowing from the southern region to the Mediterranean, forms
the ribbon of life for the country. People and crops are confined to the east-
ern and western side of this strip of water. The deserts found on both sides
of the Nile valley provide a warm and rainless climate with pronounced diurnal
changes.
Rainfall
2.        The project site is located in Upper and Middle Egypt.  The average
rainfall is highest in the northern part of that region. Beni Suef Govern-
orate in the north averages about 11.3 millimeters, most of which comes in
the winter period (see Table 1). In the southern area in Aswan Governorate,
the average rainfall is negligible, amounting to only 1.5 millimeters a year.
Although the average rainfall is practically nil, occasional "storms" can
cause severe erosion.
Temperatures
3.        The summers are very hot in the day, but relatively cool at night.
The winters are relatively mild, with some periods of hot weather, and tend
to be windy. Dust storms are frequent, particularly in the southern areas in
such places as Aswan Governorate.
4.        The temperature seldom climbs above 400C in the summer daytime and
rarely goes below 80C on winter nights. The mean temperature in Beni Suef
ranges from 11.80C in January to 28.6 OC in July (see Table 1). In Aswan,
the mean temperature extends from 16.10C in January to 34.10C in August, giv-
ing a yearly average mean temperature for Beni Suef of 21.30C and for Aswan
26.90C.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Relative Humidity
5.        The mean annual relative humidity tends to decrease from the north in
Beni Suef where it is 56%, to the south at Aswan where it is 31%. In Beni
Suef, December is the month with the highest mean relative humidity reaching
70% while the lowest of 41% occurs in May. In Aswan, December is also the
month with the lowest mean relative humidity of 20%.
Crop Influence
6.        The temperate climate with warm days and relatively cool nights pro-
mote plant growth when moisture (irrigation and/or drainage) does not become
a limiting factor. Such cool climate crops as cabbage, wheat and beans thrive
in the winter. On the other hand, perennial and annual temperate and semi-
tropical crops such as oranges, grapes, bananas, cotton, tomatoes, and sugar
cane, flourish throughout the year.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Climatological Data
- - - - Beni Suef- - - - - -         - - - - - -Aswan- - - - - - - -
Mean                                   Mean
Mean    Relative                      Mean      Relative
Rainfall    Temp    Humidity         Rainfall      Temp     Humidity
Month              in mm        C        %             in mm         C          Z
January             0.5        11.8      64              0.1         16.1         43
February            2.7        13.8      57              0           18.0         34
March               1.8        16.6      52              0.2         21.6         28
April               1.3        20.7      47              0.4         26.7         28
May                 0          25.6      41              0.8         31.6         20
June                0          27.6      44              0           33.6         21
July                0          28.6      50              0           33.9         24
August              0          28.3      55              0           34.1         25
September           0         26.6       60              0           31.4         29
October             0.1        24.4      60              0           28.9         33
November            0.2        18.4      66              0           23.4         41
December            4.7        13.2      70              0           18.2         46
Mean Annual        11.3        21.3      56               1.5        26.9         31
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Soils and Need for Drainage
Available Soil Data
1.        The areas being considered in Upper Egypt Drainage II Project are
for the most part an extension of the areas selected in Upper Egypt Drainage
I Project. As such, the general soil properties are essentially the same as
identified in the Appraisal Report for Upper Egypt Drainage I. The project
includes the balance of 199,000 feddans of the total area (600,000 feddans)
of soils originally identified by the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of
Irrigation as being most urgently in need of tile drainage plus an additional
(301,000 feddans) recognized recently by the Ministry of Irrigation as being
seriously in need of drainage. The Ministry of Irrigation with its own
resources completed 101,000 feddans of the original 600,000 feddans.
2.        During 1962-66, detailed soil and land classification surveys were
carried out for the governorates in Zone VI namely, Beni Suef, El Minya, and
Asyut approximately 50% of the project area. By early 1971, the detailed
soil survey for Sohag and semi-detailed surveys for Qena and Aswan, all
in Zone VIII, were completed. Detailed soil surveys have been made in Zones
VII and III. The system used in the soil survey and land classification was
adopted by the Soil Survey Section of the Soils Department of the Egyptian
Ministry of Agriculture with slight modification of the system used by the
United States Bureau of Reclamation. The land classification concentrated on
evaluating the production capacity under the existing irrigated farming con-
ditions and cropping system by observing topography, drainage characteristics
and appearance of the crop.
Detailed Surveys
3.        In the detailed surveys, soil profile observations were made in each
30-50 feddans. Soil samples were taken for laboratory analysis and when a
water table was present at the time of sampling, water samples were also
analyzed. The land classification was essentially a land productivity class-
fication, and not a taxonomic soil classification, concentrating on the depth
of profile, texture of topsoil and subsoil, height of water table, surface and
subsurface salinity, exchangeable sodium content of the surface and lower
horizons, and the appearance of the crops. The major problem with this system
is the fact that it represents conditions only at the time of the survey al-
though the status of the soil in respect to water table, salinity and alkalinity
vary at times. For example, it was noted that although the saline soils were



ANNEX 2
Page 2
not too extensive in some areas and the high water table was observed only in
relatively limited areas, the presence of mottling and gleization in some of the
studied profiles indicate that the areas that need drainage are much larger
than those that had high ground water during the field study. Since the
survey, many changes in water table depth, salinity and exchangeable sodium
levels have occurred. With the exception of these changes, the maps are
otherwise accurate.
Semi-detailed Surveys
4.        Results of the semi-detailed surveys are considerably less reliable
due to the low sampling density of 1 sample in 750 to 1,000 feddans. Base
maps were used at a scale of 1:25,000 and distances between traverses were
about 1 km. The areas covered by semi-detailed surveys need to be classified
at detailed survey level prior to design of tile drainage systems.
Mapping Units
5.        Mapping units used for the land classification delineated eight soil
profile types, although fewer types existed in most areas. These units were
as follows:
Unit I    -    Dark brown light clays throughout the profile (150 cm)
which in the absence of salinity were usually given a
productivity rating of Class 2.
Unit II   -    Dark brown light clays to 50 cm overlying a coarser
textured subsoil, usually sandy loam. These permeable
soils were rated Class 1.
Unit III  -    Dark brown light clays with a gradual transition with depth
to clay loam, silty clay loam or loam. Productivity was
rated as Class 1 or 2.
Unit IV   -    Similar to Unit I but lighter in texture, generally clay
loam. Productivity potential rather better than Unit I.
Unit V    -    Pale brown light clay or clay loam overlying a coarser
textured subsoil, generally sandy loam. With moderate to
good permeability this unit has a high productivity poten-
tial and is considered Class 1.
Unit VI   -    Very dark brown or dark brown clay loam throughout with
a good permeability; these are the best soils in the
project area but occur only over a small area. They are
considered Class 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Unit VII  -    Very permeable sandy loam to loamy sand soils.  The
productivity potential is Class 2 or Class 3.
Unit VIII -    Sandy soils ocurring only in Qena Governorate, considered
Class 2 or Class 3.
The Need for Drainage
6.        The need for drainage facilities stems from the change in irrigation
practices due to the harnessing of the Nile River. Prior to the commissioning
of the Aswan High Dam, the river would overflow its banks from August to
September and then recede. At the same time the groundwater level would rise
and fall to 2 m or more below the land surface. There was usually no further
irrigation by the farmers once the flood period was over, except for some
fartns with wells.  Since the control of the Nile, perennial irrigation has
become the practice and water is added to the land frequently throughout the
year. Because of the low infiltration rates of the clay soils, the ground-
water levels have been building up over time, especially in places where no
new outlets have been provided. The natural or existing system of drainage
has proven to be incapable of discharging the additional amounts of water now
being used. Furthermore, seepage and deep percolation from the irrigation
canals hiave significantly added to the rise in the groundwater levels through-
out the year. Also, the many hundreds of small pumping stations that used to
pump and raise water from the wells for perennial irrigation in some areas
are nio longer needed and they are not operating. This drawdown effect on the
grounLdwater level that used to take place has thus been eliminated.
7.        The net result of the change in groundwater level has been to create
waterlogging conditions in many areas which have serious deleterious effects
on root growth and development. The project is designed to keep the water
table below the soil profile by not less than 1 m from the surface.
Salinity Control
8.         Closely associated with drainage and waterlogging is the problem
of saliniity control. With the shift in water regime, salinity problems have
also increased. Prior to the control of the Nile River, the annual inundation
of the valley would flush the salts that were built up in the soil profiles
dturing the year through the soil layers into the groundwater and out into
the Nile River waters. Since drainage has been impeded, as described above in
paragraph 6, the degree of salinity tends to build up due to the climate in
the area and the soils.  The climate fosters a high evapo-transpiration rate
for plants growing on these soils and the reduction of moisture by the plant
roots tends to increase the concentration of the salts in the root zone.
Secondly, the clay soils frequently found in the project area have a high
capillary conductivity potential. Thus with a strong upward movement of
moisture from saline groundwaters (paragraph 10), faster than the salts are
removed by irrigation, very highly saline conditions are created in the soil
profiLe. In many areas, these salts effloresce on the surface providing a
noticeable white crust.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        The Nile waters are suitable for irrigation having relatively low
salinity and alkalinity. This is evident in the water analysis which show
a low salt concentration of 171 ppm and a high of 308 ppm total dissolved
solids, with a sodium absorption ratio (SAR) of 0.70 to 1.47. However, the
salt build up in the groundwater can be extremely high as shown by groundwater
analysis in El Minya Governorate, the area where approximately 20% of the
project will be carried out. (See below).
Groundwater        Nile River Water
(El Minya)             (Cairo)
Total Dissolved Solids (ppm)            Low      489         Low  171
High 15,440         High 308
Sodium Absorption Ratio (SAR)           Low    1.30         Low  0.70
High  32.30         High 1.47
10.       It is expected that with proper drainage facilities being installed,
and a systematic leaching program, the extremely saline soils will have their
excess salts leached from the profile into the drains and removed along with
the excess water. It is anticipated that with good drainage and a low water
table, salinity control will be an integral function of the normal irrigation
practice.
Crop Responses
11.       There is a definite correlation between the appearance and perform-
ance of the crops (cotton, sugarcane, grains, vegetables, fruits) in the
field and the drainage and salinity status of the soils. From Aswan Gover-
norate through Giza Governorate, those crops on poorly drained and saline
soils were observed to be short, weak and chlorotic. In the same area, those
on well-drained soils due either to their inherently good drainage properties,
the high aspect of the land, or being provided with drainage facilities, were
found to be tall, thick, growing vigorously, and with leaves of deep green
color.
12.       Waterlogging and salinity have recently become the major limiting
factors to crop production in many areas. Without drainage facilities, it
has been estimated that average crop yields in the project area would decline
by at least 30% over the next 35 years.
General Soil Properties
13.       The predominant clay mineral found in the soils is montmorillonite,
with a cation exchange capacity of approximately 60 milli-equivalents (meq)
per 100 grams. All the soils contain calcium carbonate in amounts varying
from 1 to 10%. The pH ranges from 7.1 to 8.1. In the fine textured soils,
the structure is very coarse prismatic with sub-angular blocky microstructure.
Below 150 cm structure becomes massive and permeability below this depth in
heavy textured soils is usually very low. Coarse textured soils generally
have a weak structure.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
14.       Wlhile salinity and alkalinity to some degree are common problems
throughout the irrigated lands in Lower and Upper Egypt, it has been estimated
that approximately 12,000 feddans are completely unproductive in the project
area due to salinity and alkalinity. In the former case, the electrical con-
ductivity (EC) is more than 4 mmhos/cm at 25oC. In the latter case, the EC
might be greater than 4 mmhos/cm at 25oC and the Sodium Absorption Ratio (SAR)
obtained from saturated soil extracts show exchangeable sodium percentage to
be greater than 15. For example, some soils in the Kom-Ombo area have an EC
as high as 41.6 mmhos/cm in the first 20 cm of the soil profile and an SAR of
73.8. In El-Minya, some saline and alkali soils were found to have an EC of
29.4 and an SAR of 40.4 in the top 30 cm of the soil profile.
Reclamation of Saline Soils
15.       For those soils which are only very saline and not alkali, leaching
the excess salts from the soil root zone could make them productive. The pro-
cedure would be to flood the fields to a depth of 20 cm and add water period-
ically until the salts have been leached to an acceptable level. Lifting the
required volume of water from the irrigation canals onto the fields cannot
be done by the average farmer with his traditional water lifting device. In
order to overcome this problem, the project will make available the necessary
portable power pumps, and suitable tractor and trailer units for transporting
the pumps (Annex 6, Table 12). With an adequate drainage system, the salts
should be removed from the soil profile as leaching is continued through
the irrigation of crops that will be growing on the land.
Reclamation of Alkali Soils
16.       In cases where the soils are alkali (SAR over 15%), it will be neces-
sary to resort to other measures in order to reclaim these soils and make them
productive. This would include:
Applying gypsum at a determined amount per feddan and incorporating
it in the upper 30 cm of the soil profile using a moldboard plough.
The amount of gypsum required should provide sufficient calcium to
replace the absorbed sodium. While soil analysis will indicate the
exchangeable sodium percentage in the soil from which the approximate
amount of gypsum required could be determined, field tests should be
conducted to establish the precise amount of gypsum needed in each
area. The alkali soils should be leached first before determining
the gypsum requirements, as part of the alkali fraction would be
reduced by leaching.
17.       Fortunately, gypsum is available in Egypt.  It is mined west of the
Nile Delta near Suez. All along the Nile, it could be barged to specific
project sites and trucked to the fields. To facilitate this operation, the
project will provide 60 hp wheeled tractors and 4-ton trailers fitted with
distributors to transport the gypsum to the fields to be treated. Belt con-
veyors will also be provided for loading and off-loading the gypsum. Crawler
tractors (180 hp) equipped with heavy duty moldboard ploughs and subsoilers
will also be provided (Annex 6, Table 12).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
18.       At the present time, gypsum is supplied to farmers for soil reclama-
tion at a Government subsidized price of LE 0.81 per ton. Within the project,
the farmer would be responsible for paying for the spreading, ploughing, sub-
soiling and pumping of water, estimated to cost LE 13.0. Adding to this the
highest estimated cost of gypsum (LE 16.10) the total reclamation cost will be
LE 29.1 per feddan. Repayment at no interest will be spread over 20 years.
However, 10% administration fee would be charged, makiig the annual payment
about LE 1.60 per feddan. In the event that only leaching is required, farmers
would be charged for pumping over a two-year period which would amount to LE
1.60 per feddan.
19.       Land reclamation, as distinct from tile drainage which is carried
out by the Ministry of Irrigation, is done by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Criteria for Selection of Project Area
20.       The Executive Authority for Projects on High Dam Waters and Tile
Drainage in Upper Egypt in its Project Study for the Ministry of Irrigation,
selected a total area of 600,000 feddans as being in need of drainage, spread
over six governorates between Beni Suef and Aswan. The selection was based
on soil survey data, especially observed soil salinity and groundwater levels.
From the above area, 300,000 feddans where drainage was urgently needed, were
selected for the on-going Upper Egypt Drainage I project. An additional area
of 101,000 feddans has been equipped with tile drains by EPADP with its own
resources. The remaining area of 199,000 feddans plus an additional area of
301,000 feddans, identified later being in urgent need of drainage have
been selected for the present Upper Egypt Drainage II project.
21.       Areas in which tile drains are urgently needed were selected on
the basis of one or more of the following criteria:
-    soil salinity exceeding 4 millimhos per cm;
-    groundwater levels observed within 150 cm of the land
surface during the soil surveys;
-    low-lying areas including enclosed depressions located
next to newly developed lands at higher elevations;
-    piezometric pressure of the aquifer reaching an average
throughout the year to within 200 cm of the land surface;
at such locations observations indicated water tables
remained less than 150 cm below the land surface during
prolonged periods.
Procedure for Selection
22.       Prior to field inspection, areas selected on the above criteria
were delineated on maps showing soil units and on topographical maps which
located the irrigation canals and existing and planned drainage channels
(scale 1:25,000, vertical contour interval 50 cm).



ANNEX 2
Page 7
23.       A field inspection was made of all the originally selected areas.
Maps prepared during the "office" study described above were compared with
actual field conditions and proved generally accurate. However, salinity
had extended beyond those areas identified as saline during the 1962-1966
detailed soil survey. Substantial variations were noticed in some instances
between maps of the 1971 semi-detailed soil survey and actual field condi-
tions. Where possible, such discrepancies were adjusted. Following neces-
sary readjustments of the boundaries an area of 500,000 feddans for the
Uppet Egypt Drainage II Project has been selected. The distribution of
the selected areas for tile drains over the entire project area is tabulated
in Annex 3, Table 1.
24.       Maps have been prepared showing the locations of the selected areas
(Maps IBRD 12107 to 12114 and 12280). Further boundary adjustments are ex-
pected to be necessary when detailed pre-drainage field investigations have
been undertaken.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Project Works
General
1.        The project works will include:
(a) installation of tile drains and buried pipe collectors throughout
the 500,000 feddan project area;
(b) deepening and widening of about 1,226 km of existing open main
and branch drains and construction of about 346 km of new drains
needed to discharge effluent from the tile drained areas, in-
volving approximately 23 million m3 of excavation;
(c) construction of one new pumping station at Menshat El-Dahab required
to lift the drainage effluent in low-lying areas in the northern
part of the project for discharge into a main drainage canal and
subsequently into the Nile River; and
(d) reclamation of about 12,000 feddans of severely saline land dis-
tributed throughout the project area by leaching; about 8,000
feddans of these lands are also alkaline and would require ap-
plication of gypsum and subsoiling for successful reclamation.
2.        The project will also provide vehicles, equipment, workshops,
training and expansion of the existing office facilities for EPADP, and mollus-
cicides and equipment for the Bilharzia control program.
Open and Main Branch Drains
3.        The existing network of open main and branch drains was designed to
keep the water level in the drains at 1.5 m below ground surface, which, under
the present cropping intensity and water utilization, is considered inadequate.
The flow in these drains is at present often impeded due to inadequate main-
tenance and insufficient slope. To ensure adequate capacity and sufficient
depth for providing free-fall discharge from the pipe collectors, these drains
will require widening and deepening to lower the water level in the drains by
1 m to 2.5 m.  Existing bridges, syphons, flumes and other structures will
have to be either extended or rebuilt.
4.        Those parts of the project areas which were converted from basin to
perennial irrigation during the last decade lack adequate drainage facilities.
New open main and branch drains, including necessary structures, will be con-
structed under the project.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Excavation of open drains under the project will be carried out
by local contractors who have considerable experience in this type of work.
Manual labor will be used for excavating drains having a bed width of less
than 2 m. All other excavations will be done with draglines and excavators.
Care has to be taken where drains pass through very sandy soils, where the
risk arises of slippage and caving in of the side slopes. Excavation in
layers, allowing sufficient time intervals for the adjacent soils to drain
and proper protection of the inner toes and side slopes of the profiles,
will be necessary, and close supervision would be required.
6.        The length of new open drains and open drains for remodelling is
estimated at 346 km and 1,226.5 km respectively. The approximate volume of
earth work is 10,400,000 m3 for the new drains and 13,000,000 m3 for the
remodelling. Details on open drains works are shown in Table 1.
Tile Drainage
7.        The design of the tile drainage system will provide for a reduction
of the water table to at least 1 m within 48-72 hours following irrigation and
to 1.25 m before the next irrigation. To achieve this requirement, the tile
drains will be installed at an average depth of 1.5 m and the drain spacing,
dependent on local soil hydraulic characteristics, is expected to average 42 m.
8.        Under the project, a network of field tile drains or laterals will
be installed at a depth of 1.4-1.8 m below land surface, with 1.4 m as the min-
imum depth at the upper end of the first lateral. This depth will increase
progressively for the subsequent laterals at the same gradient as the collector
until it reaches 1.5 m and will then remain constant for the remaining laterals.
To permit installation of the laterals to these depths, without lowering the
collector and the branch and main drains, the first few laterals will have to
be connected directly to the collector pipe at its center line while the re-
maining laterals could use a header pipe connection to the collector.
9.        The spacing of tile drains will be designed according to the phys-
ical property of soils determined by field investigations. It is estimated
that the spacing would vary between 25 m and 80 m.  Each lateral will be about
200 m and never over 300 m long and each collector about 1 km to 1.5 km long.
Altogether there will be about 50,000 km of lateral tile drains and 6,000 km
of collector pipes in the project area. Details on the areas to be provided
with tile drainage are shown in Table 1.
10.       The above described design criteria concerning the depth and
spacing of tile drains would be revised later in light of field investigations
to be carried out by EPADP with the assistance of the consultants. These in-
vestigations will aim at refining the design criteria for tile drainage in
order to obtain the best technical and economical solution in each case.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       PVC corrugated pipes of 80 mm diameter will be used for tile drains
unless tests during the first year of the project prove that smaller diameter
could be safely used. The pipes will be manufactured locally in Egypt by im-
ported pipe manufacturing plants consisting of an extruder, corrugator and
puncher. Three plants of a capacity of 1,000 m/hour of pipes will be required.
The raw material (resin powder) required for the production of PVC pipes will
be imported. It is estimated that the required quantity of raw material for
the production of PVC pipes for 500,000 feddans is 16,000 tons. The selection
of PVC plastic pipes instead of cement pipes was made on the basis of the fol-
lowing criteria:
(a) Experience in the past showed that transportation of cement
pipes, from the tile making factory to the field is a very ex-
pensive and difficult operation requiring considerable equip-
ment and effort. The problem becomes more acute in Upper Egypt
where transport distances are much more important than in
Lower Egypt. With PVC pipes, one truck of 7 tons can transport
at least 10,000 meters of pipes.
(b) The output of tile laying trench machines is higher with PVC
pipes than with cement pipes (1,800 m/day against 1,200 m/day,
respectively).
(c) Shortages of cement occur frequently in Egypt with negative ef-
fects on tile drainage operations: even with imported cement the
problem would not be completely solved because of the long dis-
tance of the project area from the Port of Alexandria.
(d) The cost of tile drainage with PVC pipes is less than with cement
pipes (Annex 6, Table 5).
(e) There is no risk of breakage with PVC pipes during transportation
while breakage of cement pipes averages 10%.
Because of their advantages, PVC pipes have replaced all types of other pipes
in drainage works in Western Europe. According to recent estimates, some 500
million meters of PVC pipes have been successfully installed in European coun-
tries during the recent 10 years.
12.       As is explained in the previous paragraph, transportation cost for
PVC pipes is negligible. Therefore, fixed rather than mobile plants for the
production of PVC pipes are recommended. The choice was on the ground that
mobile units are more expensive and not as durable as fixed units. Moreover,
the transfer of a fixed unit to a new location can be done easily at a low
cost.
13.       Because of lack of experience with such plants in Egypt, provision
will be made in the contracts for training local staff in the operation and
maintenance of the plants. One plant will be imported and installed during
the first year of the project for the production of PVC pipes for the 10,000



ANNEX 3
Page 4
feddans to be completed in the first year. During the second year, two more
plants will be installed. At the beginning of the third year of the project,
all three plants will be fully operational in order to produce PVC pipes at
the rate of 140,000 feddans per year.
14.       For the laying of tile drains, contractors will be selected through
international competitive bidding. This request was made by EPADP and ac-
cepted by IDA in order to accelerate the rate of implementation of the project.
Trenching machines rather than trenchless have been selected for laying tile
drains because the required depth of laying (up to 1.80 m) combined with the
soil conditions in Egypt (mostly clay soils with high moisture content) make
doubtful the suitability of trenchless machines. However, if during the first
year of the project it is proved through tests that trenchless machines can be
used successfully and economically, contractors will be allowed to use this
type of machine in the remaining project area. Trenching machine output with
PVC pipes is expected to be increased to 1,800 m per day. Thirty-three new
machines together with other equipment and spare parts (Annex 8) will be im-
ported by the contractors to maintain the required maximum rate of implementa-
tion of 140,000 feddans per year.
15.       A gravel filter envelope will be placed around all tile drains.
This will be done to provide an additional drainage area around the tile
drain which would assure a minimum drainage function in case of blockage
of the pipe and to accelerate the entrance of water into the pipes. The
general application of gravel filter will be revised in light of the results
from field tests to be carried out in the area to be implemented in the
first year of the project. Past experience has shown that the gravel used
for filters in the on-going drainage projects in Egypt is not appropriately
graded and, in some cases, pebbles of up to 10 cm in diameter are being
used. It is obvious that with this grade of gravel there is little or no
filter function. The size of pebbles recommended by most of the drainage
specialists is between 2 and 10 mm in diameter. It seems that this parti-
cular grade of gravel is difficult to be found in Egypt, and for this
reason, four gravel crusher plants of a capacity of 25 m3/hour each will be
provided under the project. The gravel crushing operation will be included
in the contract for tile drainage. It is estimated that crushing will
increase the cost of gravel by LE 0.200 per m3 (US$0.50) which represents
only 1.5% of the total gravel filter cost (Annex 6, Table 9).
16.       Collectors for tile drainage will continue to be concrete pipes
with diameters varying from 20 to 50 cm. Manholes will be located at inter-
vals of 180 to 240 m along the collectors for maintenance purposes. The
slope of collectors will be 3-4 cm per 100 m. Construction of collectors
will be included in the contract for tile drainage. The excavation of
trenches and laying of collector pipes up to 30 cm in diameter will be made
by using special collector laying machines. One of these machines has been



ANNEX 3
Page 5
imported recently in Egypt and is now under test. For the larger diameters
of pipes, the excavation of trenches will be carried out by manual labor
supplemented by backhoe excavators when required. Ten new collector laying
machines and ten backhoe excavators, together with other supporting equip-
ment and spare parts will be imported by the contractors for this operation.
Concrete pipes for collectors will be produced by small local factories as
is done for the on-going projects. Backfilling of tile trenches and collec-
tors will be made with four-wheel tractors with rear mount grader blade, to
be also imported by the contractors.
Pumping Station
17.       The effluent from the buried tile and open drainage system will
either be discharged into the Nile by gravity or lifted by pumps where
necessary. One small new pumping station would be constructed at Menshat
El-Dahab in the El Minya Governorate. The pumping station will control
drainage water from catchment basins totalling 30000 feddans. The pumping
station will have two electrically driven pump units plus one standby unit.
The total discharge capacity will be 3.5 m3/sec with a maximum head of 2.0
m. The maximum load of the station will be 110 kw. The power transmission
line will also be included in the project.
Reclamation of Saline and Alkaline Soils
18.       About 8,000 feddans in the project area are alkaline soils and
will require gypsum. Application rates for gypsum will vary depending on
the amount of alkali present. Field tests will have to be carried out to
establish the amount of gypsum required for each individual area. The appli-
cation will be followed by subsoiling across the installed tile drains to
improve lateral water movement to the drains. Gypsum is available from the
Nile Delta and Suez Canal areas and will be transported by barge on the Nile.
Transport from off-loading sites and distribution will be by tractors equip-
ped with trailers and distributors. Crawler tractors will be used for plow-
ing and subsoiling.
19.       In these saline alkali soils and on a further 4,000 feddans which
are saline but where no alkali is present, excess salts would be removed by
leaching. The land will be flooded and the water level maintained until
salts in the crop root zone had been reduced to acceptable levels. This
may take several months in the more severely affected soils. Portable pumps
will be used to raise the water from irrigation canals. Wheeled tractors
with trailers will be used to transport the pumps, fuel and lubricants
between pumping sites.
Implementation Schedule
20.       The implementation schedule of the project is shown in the chart
IBRD 15753. Table 2 shows the overall construction schedule of the previous
and present Bank drainage projects in Egypt.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Tile Drainage Areas and
Excavation and Remodelling of
Open Main Drains and Branches
Catchment         Tile Drainage              New Drains                Remodelling
Governorate               Area               Area                 Length       Volume      Length        Volume
(feddan)               km           m3          km             3
GIZA               Masanda North           10,000                -             -          54.0          735,000
Rahawy North            10,000                -             -          60.0          620,000
Rahawy South            10,000                -             -          46.0          560,000
FAYUM              Zenket                   6,000                -             -          22.0          107,000
Roos I                   5,000                -             -          10.0           50,000
Roos II                  4,000                -             -          l0.0           50,000
Gouref                   5,000                -             -          14.5           80,000
Tohbar-Agameen           6,000                -             -          13.5           56,000
Shahat                  12,000                -             -          54.5          555,000
Hosan                    2,000                -             -          13.0          130,000
BENI SUEF          Ehnasya                 30,000                -             -          93.0        1,700,000
Mosa-Aref                7,000                -             -           8.5           40,000
Hakamna-Beni Bikheet    8,000                 -             -          20.0           85,000
Koshesha                20,000                -             -         103.0        1,552,000
Masanda South           20,000                -             -         116.0        1,460,000
L MINYA               Abu Raheb               10,500                -             -          73.0          495,000
Beni Mazar              27,000              12.0          213,000    149.0         1,399,000
South Menshat El
Dahab                   29,600              60.0        1,200,000        -             -
Kabkab                  38,000              60.0        1,521,000      67.0          617,000
ASYUT              Abu Gabal               18,000                 -            -          24.0          398,000
West El Kosia           14,400              19.0          264,000        -             -
El Badary               14,000                -             -          49.0          225,000
Badari                  15,000                -             -          48.0          225,000
SOHAG             West Tahta                6,000              19.0          396,000        -             -
Akhmin                  15,000                -             -          54.0          740,000
Sohag                   26,000              29.0          740,000        -             -
El Baliana               8,640                -             -          26.0          305,000
Akhmim                  10,000                -             -          23.0          198,000
QENA               Hammad                  28,000              49.0        1,300,000        -             -
Abu Tesht               14,400              69.0        3,890,000        -             -
Keft                    18,500                -             -          20.0          100,000
Arment                  10,000               6.0          190,000      12.0          100,000
Hegaza                  19,000               9.0          230,000        -             -
Komer                   10,000              10.0          400,000       8.0          120,000
ASWAN              South El Sebaeya         7,200                 -             -         18.0          121,000
Kom Ombo West            5,760               4.0           40,000      17.0          175,000
TOTAL                                500,000             346.0       10,384,000  1,226.0        12,998,000
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Overall Drainage Program
Actual                                             Program
Item            1965-73   1974   1975    1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
'-----------------------------------------'000 feddans-------------------------------------
Government Resources       610        10     30       -      -      -       -     210    230    370    370    370    370
Nile Delta Project         200        50     90      140    150    160    160      -       -       -      -       -      -
Upper Egypt I Project       -         -      10       60     70      70     70      20     -      -       -       -      -
Proposed Upper              -         -      -        -      10      70    140    140    140       -      -       -      -
Egypt II Project                           _       -
TOTAL                 810       60    130      200    230    300    370    370    370    370    370    370    370
Cumulative                           870   1000    1200   1430   1730   2100   2470   2840   3210   3580   3950   4320
Of which Bank Projects               250    350      550    780   1080   1450   1610   1750           -       -          -
May 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Agriculture
General
1.        The agricultural sector is extremely important in the life and
economy of Egypt. It involves 57% of the population, provides employment
opportunities for 46%, generates 31% of the GNP and is responsible for ap-
proximately 75 to 85% of the export earnings.
2.        The Nile flowing northward provides two distinct agricultural
regions:  the Nile Delta, an alluvial fan; and the Nile Valley, formed by
alluvial soils being deposited annually on the east and west banks of the
Nile. In general, agriculture is more advanced in the Nile Delta than in
the Nile Valley. The project is located in the Nile Valley referred to
as Middle and Upper Egypt.
Crops and Seasons
3.        Due to its mild, temperate climate and available water, the Nile
Valley enjoys a year-round growing season. Traditionally, the agricultural
year begins in November and is divided into three periods: winter, summer
and "nili" (the fall season, named after the Nile flood). The major winter
crops are wheat, barley, Egyptian clover or berseem, broad beans, lentils,
winter vegetables, winter onions and flax. These crops are usually planted
during October through December and harvested from April through June. The
major summer crops are cotton, maize, sorghum, millet and summer vegetables.
They are generally planted from March thrugh June and harvested from August
to November. The nili crops consist of maize, sorghum and vegetables which
are planted in July and August, and harvested from October through December.
Sugar cane is perennial and is usually planted in January and February and
harvested about 15 months later. The subsequent ratoon cuttings are harvested
a year apart afterwards. An array of fruits such as oranges and other citrus,
mangoes, grapes, and bananas are grown in permanent groves. Dates, the second
most important fruit after oranges, are found scattered around villages and
cultivated fields and along canals.
Rotations
4.        The general practice is a 2 or 3-year rotation.  In either case,
farming is now intensive and the land usually supports a variety of crops
throughout the year giving a cropping ratio between 1.7 and 2.0. The areas



ANNEX 4
Page 2
devoted to cotton and sugar cane are regulated by the government and they
tend to be farmed in relatively large consolidated blocks. The other crops
are distributed in small plots.
5.        In the 2-year rotation, the land is divided into two equal units.
Block one is planted to clover in the winter and after about two cuttings,
the summer crop cotton is planted. The second block is divided into two
equal parts, one of which is planted to clover and the other to wheat or
barley. These two blocks are subsequently planted with summer crops such
as maize, sorghum, summer vegetables or millets. In the second year, the
respective crops are planted in the opposite plots. In the 3-year rotation,
the land is divided into 3 equal blocks. Block one is planted to clover,
from which two cuttings may be had, before planting the field in March to
cotton. Block two is planted in winter to clover or beans and the third
block to wheat or barley. The latter two blocks are subsequently planted
with summer crops. This sequence of crops is rotated among the three blocks
in the second and third year to complete the rotation. On farms where sugar
cane is grown, the sugar cane remains in the same plot of land for at least
3 years. The balance of the farmers' land is divided into plots in which
winter, summer and nili crops are cultivated.
Farm Practices
6.        All farm plots are now able to engage in perennial irrigation since
the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam. Farmers' fields are provided with
water distributed through a vast network of irrigation and drainage canals
operating under gravity. In the majority of cases, water is lifted from the
main canals to the plots through traditional water wheels, sadoofs or water
screws. Since there is no water charge to the farmer, there is a tendency to
over-irrigate when water is furnished.
7.        The major source of farm power is the buffalo and cattle.  They
carry out land preparation, threshing of grain, lifting of water and trans-
porting of goods and people. Machinery is being used to an increasing ex-
tent in some agricultural operations needing draft power such as plowing for
sugar cane, pumping machines for irrigation and motor sprayers for pest con-
trol on cotton. The donkey is very common and is used primarily to transport
goods and people. Sheep of the fat-tailed, coarse wool type, and goats are
found in the area, usually in herds controlled by nomads. They roam from
place to place gleaning the fields and depositing their excretions. Sheep
and goats' milk is used primarily for making cheese and their flesh is valued
highly. The raw wool produced is used mainly for making carpets. Pigeons
are housed in crude to sophisticated houses and provide a good income for
raisers. Poultry are common, securing their food by scavenging the homestead
and nearby fields.
8.        Organic and chemical fertilizers are used extensively and farmers
are fully aware of their benefits.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Agricultural Production
9.         Recently, the country has been divided into 14 agricultural zones
based on'homogenous soil types and common cropping patterns. This procedure
should improve the planning capabilty of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation. Under this system, the project area falls into Zone VI covering
the Governorates of Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut; Zone VIII which includes
Sohag, Qena, and Aswan; Zone VII encompassing Fayoum Governorate; and Zone III
which includes Districts in Giza, Qualinbiya and Menoufya Governorates. Total
crop production and current average yields for all crops in all zones are found
in Table I and the distribution of crops in each zone is found in Table 2.
All zones are large producers of food crops for domestic consumption such as
grains, vegetables, legumes and fruits. Each zone cultivates products for
the export market. Zone VI produces most of the cotton and Zone VIII most of
the onions. Sugar cane, a very significant crop for the domestic market, is
grown primarily in Zone VIII. All zones have a high cropping ratio, 1.7 to
2.0.
10.       The cropping pattern in the project area (Table 3) is a direct re-
flection of the crop distribution in the four zones, and was estimated by a
straight-forward pro rata calculation from the cropping pattern of the total
cultivated areas in all zones. Calculations were based on 500,000 feddans
minus 12,000 feddans (saline and alkali soils) currently not in crops. The
present and projected cropped area, yields and annual production data in the
project area are found in Table 4. The present average yields used for the
project area are those determined by the previous mission that made a de-
tailed survey in the project area (most of the present project area is an ex-
pansion of the sites selected in Upper Egypt Drainage I Project). A recent
review (1974-75) by the Economics Institute of the Ministry of Agriculture
to determine yields from farmers' plots in the project area reported essen-
tially the same figures except for onions and sugar cane. With these two
crops, the yields were respectively 43 and 19% lower than the first data and
the present yields used. These lower yield figures for sugar cane and onions
were not used because it is believed they reflect other conditions in addi-
tion to waterlogging and salinity, specifically diseases such as streak and
ratoon stunting on sugar cane and white rot (Sclerotium cepivorum) and downy
mildew (Alternaria porri) on onions. The increases in yields due to drainage
were estimated to be 35% for wheat, legumes and onions, 25% for maize,
sorghum, cotton, vegetables and clover; and 15% for sugarcane. These in-
creases are reasonable since the new levels reached would be approximately
the same as the average yields now being attained in the areas outside the
project area but in the same zones (Table 1). Moreover, the percentage
increases are within the ranges found from data on effects of drainage on
yields in farmers' fields that were recognized as being in need of drainage
before they were provided with tile drains (Tables 6, 7, 8, and 9).
Population and Land Tenure and Farm Size
11.       Within the project area, there are an estimated 147,000 farm
families. About 34% of the holdings are operated by the owner with an aver-
age of 3.1 feddans, 38% are rented with an average holding of 1.7 feddans



ANNEX 4
Page 4
and 28% are mixed (owned and rented) with the average for this group being
5.4 feddans. The average farm size is 3.4 feddans with 75% of the holders
farming on less than 3 feddans. Except for cotton and sugar cane, which
are farmed in consolidated blocks, land fragmentation is one of the major
factors prohibiting the use of advanced production techniques such as farm
machinery for land preparation, sowing, and harvesting.
12.       The Agrarian Reform Law of 1952 and the subsequent amencments have
given a tenant a high degree of security and limit land ownership to 50 fed-
dans for single persons and 100 feddans per family. These laws have brought
about a redistribution of the cultivated land. However, based on the situa-
tion as shown in the 1961 Census for the six southern governorates, 75% of
the landowners (owning less than 3 feddans each) own only 25% of the total
land area, while 6% of the owners (owning more than 10 feddans each) own al-
most 50% of the total land area (Table 5).
Production Restraints
13.       Restraints to agricultural production fall into two categories,
physical and physiological. The most significant where this project is con-
cerned is providing the proper physical environment for root growth. This is
directly related to drainage and salinity. The second, largely physiological,
is the response of the entire plant on the land once given the opportunity to
have a healthy root system. The factors in this category that have been iden-
tified are: losses from diseases and insects, poor water management, and in-
adequate timely land preparation for crops. Improvements in the breeds, feed-
ing and general maintenance of small and large livestock would also enhance
output and productivity in the agricultural sector.
Responses to Drainage
14.       With the harnesssing of the Nile and the shift to perennial irriga-
tion, the water table has been rising in many soils and waterlogging and
salinity problems have become prevalent and critical in a number of areas.
(For more details, see Annex 2). The relief of waterlogging conditions
through tile drains can have great effect on yields. Although analytical
data and field tests are limited, some records show increases stated to be
due only to drainage to be substantial. For example, studies of average
yields in farmers' fields 3 years before and 3 years after installation of
tile drains in several villages in El Minya, Beni Suef and El Fayoum Gover-
norates show increases for cotton to be 14 to 100%, for wheat 19-100%, for
maize 10-100% and for onions 30-50%. (See Tables 6, 7, 8, and 9).
15.       In a study to investigate the influence of plastic and concrete
tile drainage materials on the water table level and yield of clover, a field
experiment was undertaken at Mahalette Mousa, Kafr El-Sheik Governorate in
1971. Increase in yields of berseem over the first cutting was for PVC
106 to 114% and concrete 89 to 99% (Table 10).  In the third cut, the yield



ANNEX 4
Page 5
increase over the first cut was 89 to 99% for PVC and 79 to 97% for concrete
drains. Although there were differences between the materials in.the in-
crease in yields, these differences were reported to be not statistically
significant.
Agricultural Support Services
16.       Support to the farmer in the Project area is provided primarily
through agencies attached to the Ministry of Agriculture. In particular,
these are the Agricultural Cooperative Organization, the Agricultural Credit
Bank, the Agricultural Cooperative Credit Organization, the Agricultural
Extension Service and the four agricultural research stations (Sids, Mallawi,
Shandoweel and Matoons) located near the project area in Upper Egypt. These
stations are involved with the breeding and seed propagation of superior,
locally adapted varieties, and research on cultural practices. In addition,
agricultural engineers from departments other than the Extension Service
attached to the office of the Governor in each governorate serve as Extension
Agents. There are other services in the Department of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation that backstop the total agricultural program with direct and
indirect support to the farmers (Table 11).
17.       All farmers, regardless of their status, belong to a village
farmers' cooperative society. Through the services of the cooperative orga-
nization, a farmer receives credit to help finance his crop production. Most
of the credit is in kind for seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides; but some
cash advances are made for other farm costs such as wages for harvesting, and
marketing cotton. Aside from the help rendered in crop production, the vil-
lage cooperative is the main agency for marketing crops.
18.       It is obvious that the institutions to meet the farmers' needs do
exist. However, at the village level, these support services lack the effec-
tiveness desired. This has been due to problems such as complicated lines of
authority, pricing policy, and a high degree of centralization. Furthermore,
in practice the cooperatives' main activities have been to transmit govern-
ment crop requirements to the farmers, provide the inputs for the desired
crops, ensure the collection of these crops and maintain the government-
established price relationships in the agricultural sector.
19.       In the project area, the Extension Service has not been as effi-
cient as desired largely because of lack of transportation, and inadequate
training aids, especially those relating to drainage. Sufficient staff is
also an important factor. At present there are no Extension personnel at
the village level although there are plans to put personnel at this level in
the future. To meet the transportation needs of the Extension Service in the
project area, vehicles would be provided for under the project.
20.       To improve the efficiency of service, a proposal has been made to
EPADP and the Ministry of Agriculture which, if implemented, should make the
Extension Service more effective and facilitate the operation of EPADP at the
village level. This proposal states that: (a) seminars be initiated for
EPADP and Extension personnel at the governorate level to acquaint each other



ANNEX 4
Page 6
with their respective roles and to explain how Extension could assist in the
EPADP program; (b) committees, consisting of Extension and EPADP personnel,
be established at Cairo, each governorate and district level in which plans
could be formulated for fostering EPADP's program in each village; (c) a
training program be established to train Extension personnel in all aspects
of the drainage program to enable the Extension Agents to communicate more
effectively with farmers; (d) the Extension Service collaborate with the main-
tenance units to be established in EPADP to assure farmers' support and par-
ticipation; and, (e) extension information material be developed specifically
for the drainage program. A strong effort should be made by the Extension
Service to teach farmers how to irrigate their fields more efficiently and to
reduce overwatering, on important factor contributing to the drainage problem.
21.       The extension staff in zones VI and VIII in the project area is given
below:
Gov. Hdqtrs.          District Level        Village
Governorate    Inspectors    Agents            Agents           Agents
Beni Suef           1            4               7                 0
El Minya            1            9              20                  0
Asyut               1           15              24                  0
Sohag               1            3              16                 0
Qena                1            5              21                  0
Aswan               1            4               5                  0
Total          6           40              93                 0
The districts vary according to governorate, being 4 in Aswan where agricul-
ture is low as compared with Qena and Sohag which have high production in 10
and 11 districts, respectively.



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Production Area and Yields in Project Region - 1972-74 Average
Zone VI               Zone VIII              Zone VII               Zone III
Crop                             Area       Yield        Area       Yield       Area      Yield        Area       Yield
(1,000 F)   (tons)    (1,000 F)   (tons)   (1,000 F)   (tons)   (1,000 F)   (tons)
Cotton                           343.0      0.32*        112.0      0.36*        74.0      0.23*        69.0      0.36
Wheat /1                         210.0       1.5         236.0       1.2         76.0       1.2         80.0       1.6
Sugarcane                         26.0      37.6         166.0      36.7           -        -            3.0      33.0
Maize /2                         345.0       1.5         111.0       1.3        104.0       0.9        210.0      1.64
Sorghum /2                       206.0       1.9         274.0       1.5         56.0       1.4           -        -
Onions                             6.0       5.7          20.0      10.4           -         -          16.0       1.7
Clover /3                        394.0      18.8         154.0      17.4        149.0      18.3        228.0      19.4
Vegetables /4                    116.0       6.7          35.0       6.3         35.9       7.5        148.3       7.3
Beans & Lentils                  182.0       0.8          67.0       0.9         20.0       0.9          7.0       NA
Fruits                            30.0       9.4          10.0      12.3         15.4       5.6         61.2       6.8
Other Crops                       28.0       5.6          23.0       1.3         34.0       2.1         48.0       1.6
Planted Crop Totals            1.886.0                 1.208.0                  564.3                  870.5
Areas for Cultivation          1,072.0                   715.0                  285.0                  436.0
Cropping Ratio                   1.8                     1.7                     2.0                    2.0
/1  Winter crop;                                         Zone VI:    Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut Governorates.
/2  Summer and nili crops                                Zone VIII:  Sohag, Qena and Aswan Governorates.
/3  Catch and full crops                                 Zone VII:   El Fayoum Governorate.
/4  Winter, summer and nili crops                        Zone III:   Districts in Giza, Qualiubiya, and Menoufya
Governorates.
* Lint cotton - 157.5 kg seed cotton -
56 kg lint, 100 kg seed, 1.5 kg linters.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, Cairo/ERS, USDA                                                  '-
March 26, 1976                                                                                                          (DX



ANNEX 4
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Distribution of Crops in Project Region by Zone
1972-74 Average
Zone VI     Zone VIII       Zone VII      Zone III
Crop                       ---     -------  % Planted Area ----------------
Cotton                     18.2             9.3           13.1           7.9
Wheat                       11.1           19.5           13.5           9.2
Sugar                        1.4           13.7             -            0.3
Maize                       18.3            9.2           18.4          24.1
Sorghum                    10.9            22.7            9.9            -
Onions                       0.3            1.7             -            1.8
Clover                      20.9           12.7           26.4          26.2
Vegetables                   6.0            2.9            6.4          17.0
Beans and Lentils            9.6            5.6            3.5           0.8
Fruits                       1.6            0.8            2.7           7.0
Other Crops                  1.5            1.9            6.0           5.6
Total                 99.8          100.0           99.9          99.9
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cropping Pattern In Project Area By Zones
1972 - 74 Average
Crop                             Zone VI         Zone VIII          Zone VII         Zone III             Totals
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1000/Feddans- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cotton                                79.8              27.6             10.4              4.8                122.6
Wheat -                               48.7              57.9             10.6              5.6                122.8
Sugar Cane                             6.1             40.6              00.0              0.2                 46.9
Maize 2/          2/                  80.2              27.3             14.6             14.7                136.8
Sorghum & Others -                    47.8              67.4              7.8              0.0                123.0
Onions 3                                1.3              5.0              0.0              1.1                  7.4
Clover -                              91.6              37.7             20.9             16.0                166.2
Vegetables 4/    1                    26.3               8.6              5.0             10.4                 50.3
Beans & Lentils  -                    42.1              16.6              2.8              0.5                 62.0
Fruits                                 7.0               2.4              2.2              4.3                 15.9
Other Crops                            7.4               5.6              4.8              2.4                 20.2
Planted Crop Totals                  438.3             296.7             79.1             60.0                874.1
Total Area for  7yops                243.5             174.5             40.0             30.0                488.0
Uncropped Area -                       8.0               4.0              0.0             00.0                 12.0
Total Project Area                   251.5             178.5             40.0             30.0                500.0
Cropping Ratio                          1.8              1.7              2.0              2.0                  1.8
1/  Winter Crop,                                        Zones:
2/ Summer & Nili Crops
3/  Catch & Full Crops                                     VI    Beni Suef, El-Minya, Asyut Governorates
4/  Winter, Summer, & Nili Crops                           VIII  Sohag, Qena, Aswan Governorates
5/  Due to salinity and alkalinity                         VII   Fayoum Governorate
III   Districts in Giza,  Qualiubiya, and Menoutya             '
Governorates.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, Cairo/ERS, USDA
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                                Table 4
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Present and Projected Cropped Area, Yields and Annual Production
in the Project Area
Without Project      With Project
Present     Year 10   Year 35   Year 10 Onwards
Wheat
Cropped area ('000 fed)                          122.81                                125.99
Yield tm tons/fed)                                 0.95                                  1.29
Production ('000 m tons)                         116.67        105.37    81.67         161.63
Increase over present (%)                                                               39.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               53.00
Beans and other Legumes
Cropped area ('000 fed)                           61.97                                 63.96
Yield (m tons/fed)                                 0.85                                  1.15
Production ('000 m tons)                          52.68         47.57    36.87          74.09
Increase over present (%)                                                               41.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               56.00
Cotton
Cropped area ('000 fed)                          122.64                                125.57
Yield (m tons/fed) (unginned)                       0.70                                 0.88
Production ('000 m tons) (unginned)               85.85          77.53    60.09        110.03
Increase over present (%)                                                               28.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               42.00
Maize and Sorghum
Cropped area ('000 fed)                          259.78                                266.18
Yield (m tons/fed)                                  1.45                                  1.80
Production ('000 m tons)                         376.68         340.19   263.68        481.14
Increase over present (%)                                                               28.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               41.00
Sugarcane
Cropped area ('000 fed)                           46.94                                 48.45
Yield (m tons/fed)                                 34.0                                 39.00
Production ('000 m tons)                       1,595.93      1,441.30 1,117.15       1,890.66
Increase over present (%)                                                               18.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               31.00
Onions
Cropped area ('000 fed)                             7.43                                 7.63
Yield (m tons/fed)                                  6.90                                  9.30
Production ('000 m tons)                           51.27         46.30    35.89         71.07
Increase over present (%)                                                               39.00
Increase over year 10 without project (%)                                               53.00
Berseem
Cropped area ('000 fed)                           166.17                               169.74
Other Crops
Cropped area ('000 fed)                            86.36                                87.57
Total Area of Crops                                 874.10                               895.08
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Distribution of Land Ownership By Size In Six Governorates*
Groups by Size         :                       Owners
Feddans              Number : Percent        Feddans   :  Percent
000         :           000
Less than 1                 :  215  :    40.6   :    114                6.5
1 - less than 3            :   180        34.0         303             17.3
3 - less than 5                 60        11.3         215             12.3
5 - less than 10           :    42         7.9         289             16.6
10 - and more              :    33         6.2   :    827        :     47.3
Total     -       :   530         100   :   1748       :     100
*Beni Suef, Minya, Asyut, Sohag, Qena and Aswan
Source:  Upper Egypt Drainage Project, Ministry of Irrigation, ARE
n >1
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Percentage of Increase of Crop Yield After The
Installation of Tile Drainage In Certain
Areas of El Minya Governorate
:             Maghagha                            Mayana El-Wakf                              M Malatia
700 Feddans                                        2005 Feddans                           2300 Feddans
Croo       *          *          *    Increase      :                          Increase  :                        Increase
I Before!/* After 1/: Amount  :          :Before-/: After.L: Amount  :  %  : Before!/: After!/: Amount  ; %
- - - - - - -Tons/Feddan-                :- - - - - - -Tons/Feddan- - -      :- - - - - - - Tons/Feddan- -
Cotton            0.79   :   1.02  : 0.23         30   : 0.79   : 0.95  : 0.16   : 20  : 0.32   : 0.63  : 0.31               100
Wheat             0.75        0.90  : 0.15   :  20   : 0.75   : 0.90  : 0.15   : 20  : 0.30   : 0.60  : 0.30                 100
Maize             1.40        1.54  : 0.14        10   : 0.98   : 1.12  : 0.14   :  14  : 0.56   : 1.12  : 0.56              100
Onion         :  5.00   :  6.50  : 1.50           30   : 5.00   : 6.00  : 1.00   : 20  : 5.00   : 7.50  : 2.50                50
1/  Average for 3 years.
Source: Upper Egypt Drainage Project, General Report, August 1971,
Ministry of Irrigation, ARE.
March 26, 1976
m~



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Percentage of Increase In Crop Yield After The
Installation of Tile Drainage In Certain
Areas of Beni Suef Governorate
.*            El-Wasta                                  Nasir                               Ehnasia
:            13,000 Feddans                         19,500 Feddans           :           14,500 Feddans
Crop                         ~~~~~~~~~IncreasQ                 :     Increase                     I.    Increase
Before l.-: After .I"  AmOunt:       :Before l/: After l. AmountLLL         Beforel.-  Afterl/t  Amount;  YO
- - - - Tons/Feddan- - - - -  :       :- - - - -Tons/Feddan- - - - -         :- - - - -Tons/Feddan- - - :
Cotton            0.52    : 0.79   : 0.27   : 52   : 0.65    : 0.91    : 0.26  : 40   : 0.76   : 0.99  : 0.23  : 30
Wheat          : 0.70    : 0.90   : 0.20   : 28   : 0.83    : 1.05    : 0.22  : 27   : 0.96   : 1.17  : 0.21  : 22
Maize             0.89    ; 1.12   : 0.23   : 26   : 1.00    : 1.33    : 0.33  : 33   : 0.81   : 1.02  : 0.21  : 26
1/ Average for 3 years.
Source: Upper Egypt Drainage Project, General Report, August 1971,
Ministry of Irrigation, ARE.
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Percentage of Increse In Crop Yield After The
Installation of Tile Drainage In Two
Villages In Beni Suef Governorate
:  Area:         Baha El Tamia              :      Area:         Koshisha El Oula
Crop                Village:           Kay                   :      Village            Ashmant
*                     ~~~~~~~Increase  .                      :      Increase
Before L:  After I':  Amount        %    *  Before 1/   After-:   Amount
-   -       Tons/Feddan- - - - - :            - - - - - Tons/Feddan- - - - -  :
Cotton              :  0.60   :  0.96   : 0.36            60    :   0.91      :   1.01         u.lU  :     11
Wheat                   1.11   ::  1.40   : 0.29    :  26    :   1.00         :   1.14         u.14  :      14
Maize               :  0.85   :   1.13   : 0.28    :   36            0.76     :  0.99          U.23  :      30
In Koshisha El Oula although the three-year averages are relatively low, the yield at the end of the
5th year was for cotton 76%, wheat 56%, maize 133% over the year before installation of the drains. This
high increase in the late years could be due to other inputs which drainage made it feasible for the plant to
att4in.
1/ Average for 3 years.
Source: Agriculture Inspectorate of Beni-Suef, Egypt.
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Percentage of Increase of the Crop Yield After The
Installation of Tile Drainage In Certain Areas
Of El Fayoum Governorate
Tou Toon                         Kasr  El  Basel                            El-Hamidia
Crop      *                     :   Increase                                Increase    .                         Increase
: Before L/: After L/: Amount :        : Before L/: After L/: Amount          : Before L/: AfterL/' i  oA Ei;   I
-       Tons/Feddan- - - - --         - - - - Tons/Feddan  - - - - -        :-- -   -Tons/Feddan- - - -
Cotton         ; 0.53    : 0.72   : 0.19  : 36   : 0.52             0.59    : 0.07       13      0.47       0.54   ; 0.07  ; 15
Wheat          : 0.53    : 0.83   : 0.30  : 57            .48    : 0.77    :         0.29   :n.4            n.55   : n.n : 20
Maize          :  1.08    :  1.53       0.45  : 42       0.99       1.19    : 0.20      20       0.99       1.29   ; 0.3n  :i
1/ Average for 3 years.
Source: Upper Egypt Drainage Project, General Report, August 1971,
Ministry of Irrigation, ARE.
2  >1
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAR REPUBLIC OY RGYPT
Increase in Yield of Clover (Berseem) Over lst Cut Influenced by Field Drainage
(Tons/Acre)
2nd  Cut2'                         3rd  Cut C_
1st V/!                 Increase                            Increase
Drain Type and Spacing             Area       Cut/Ton    Amount      Amount    Percent    Amount        Amount    Percent
Concrete    -   40 m.              North         5        10.38       5.38        108        9.68        4.68         94
PVC         -   40 m.              North         5        10.72       5.72        114        9.97        4.97         99
PVC         -   40 m.              South         5        10.28       5.28        106        9.83         4.83        97
Concrete    -   40 m.              South         5         9.45       4.45         89        8.97         3.97        79
PVC         -   30 m.               South        5        10.30       5.30        106        9.47         4.47        89
Concrete    -   30 m.              South         5        10.68       5.68        114        9.83         4.83        97
1/  65 days from planting.
2/  40 days after previous cut.
Source:  H.K. Bakhati, A.I. El-Shabassy, et. al., Evaluation of'Tile Drainage at Mehallet Mousa.
I. Influence of Tile Drainage on the Fluctuation of Water Table Level and Clover Yields,
Soil and Water Res. Inst., Agric. Res. Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Cairo, 1974.
t >r
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Ministry of Agriculture And Land Reclamatlon
Minister ot Agriculture
Deputy Minister for Land Reclamation
First U/S of        U/S of               U/S of              U/S of Land
Agriculture      Animal Health        Administration          and Water               Undersecretaries for Land Reclamation (4)
G.RNFRAT. ATM1iTSTRATTON ANn DFPARTMENTS                       AGRIC. RESEARCH CENTER    GEN. ORGANIZATIONS & AGENCIES
(1)  Secretarial &           (7)  Agricultural           (13)  Seeds              (1) Field Crops         (1) Agric. Coop-  (8) Egyptian
Tech. Affairs                Sectors                                             R.I.                    eration             Cotton
(14)  Ag. Quarantine                                 Agency              Improvemen
(2)  General Ins-            (8)  Planning, Follow-                               (2) Plant Diseases                              Fund
pection                      up & Evaluation       (15)  Veterinary              R.I.                (2) Poultry         (9) Agric.
Services                                       Org.                Stabiliza-
(3)  Administration          (9)  Agricultural                                    (3) Land & Water                                tion Fund
Machinery             (16)  Ag. Education          R.I.                (3) Meat
(4)  Financial Af-                                                                                            Org.           (10) Animal
fairs                  (10)  Civil Engineer-       (17)  Agricultural       (4) Horticultural                                Insurance
ing                         Museum                 Crop- R.I.          (4) Ag. Cre-            Fund
(5)  Locusts and Agri-                                                                                        dit & Co-
cultural Aviation    (11)  In-Service              (18)  Horticulture        (5) Cotton R.I.             peratives      (11) Gen. Oig.
Training                                                                                       for Culti-
(6)  Pest Control                                        (19)  Foreign            (6) Plant Protect-    (5) Egyptian              vation &
(12)  Agricultural                Relations              ion R.I.                Agric.               Land Dev.
Extension                                                                  Society
(7) Animal Health                          (12) Gen. Org.
R.I.                (6) Agric. Pro-         for Agric.
duction            Dev. &
(8) Animal Production       Agency              Rehabili-
R.I.                                        tation.
(7) Agrarian
(9) Agric. Economic         Reform
R.I.                    Agency
(10) Desert R.I.
U/S - Undersecretary                                                                                                                   N
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Consulting Services
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        Under the ongoing Upper Egypt Drainage I project, funds have been
provided for 15 man-years of consultant services. These funds have not been
used so far. It is believed that the funds already allocated are sufficient
to cover the consulting services required for the two Upper Egypt Drainage
projects.
2.        The technical duties of the consultants would include:
(a)  advice and assistance in overall planning and coordination
of project works;
(b)  advice and assistance in the pre-design surveys and inves-
tigations;
(c)  assistance in the planning and design of experimental works to
be carried out in the 10,000 feddan drainage area with PVC pipes,
to be established during the first year of Upper Egypt Drainage II
project;
(d)  advice and assistance in the monitoring and evaluating of the
drainage works and in formulating the final conclusions;
(e)  advice on water management and reclamation of saline and
alkaline lands;
(f)  advice on the reorganization necessary to achieve a more effec-
tive extension service and to ensure its coordination with
the EPADP;
(g)  advice and assistance in the maintenance of tile drainage
and in the organization of the maintenance units; and
(h)  advice and assistance as required in all other aspects of
project implementation.
3.        The activities of the consultants will be coordinated with the joint
panel of foreign and Egyptian consultants for drainage, financed by bilateral
technical assistance.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Progress reports would be prepared by the consultants and submitted
to EPADP quarterly, describing their activities undertaken during the report-
ing period and presenting a program of work for the next three months. This
report would become a part of the EPADP report submitted to IDA and the Bank.
5.        It is estimated that the above services to be provided by the
consultants would require the following professional staff:
Planning and coordination engineer                    3  man/year
Drainage engineer                                     3      "
Water management and salinity control specialist   3         "
Extension and training specialist                     1      "
Short-term specialists                                2      "
Total                                       12     "
The above figures are tentative, and EPADP would employ the experts needed
for the time periods required, and would prepare detailed terms of reference
for each consultant in consultation with IDA and the Bank.
6.        The estimated cost for the above consultants is US$0.84 million
which will be covered by the allocation of US$1.0 million made in the Upper
Egypt Drainage I project for consultants and training.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Item                  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-----BE million ------   -----US$ million-----         %
Production of PVC Pipes
Equipment & materials          0.06      7.19    7.25   0.15    18.42   18.57        99
Production cost                1.06      1.19    2.25   2.72      3.05    5.77       53
Contingencies
(a)  Physical/l             0.17      0.91    1.08   0.43       2.32    2.75      84
(b)  Price                  0.80      2.34    3.14   2.04       5.99    8.03      75
Subtotal          2.09    11.63   13.72   5.34    29.78   35.12         85
Drainage Works
Equipment & materials            -       7.00    7.00      -     17.91   17.91    100
Civil works                   41.04     4.81   45.85 105.06    12.31  117.37         10
Administration                 4.29        -     4.29  10.99         -    10.99      -
Contingencies
(a)  Physical/l             6.80      1.42    8.22  17.41       3.64   21.05      17
(b)  Price                 24.57      4.48   29.05  62.91    11.47   74.38        16
Subtotal         76.70    17.71   94.41 196.37    45.33  241.70         19
Bilharzia Control
Equipment                        -      0.03    0.03       -      0.07    0.07    100
Molluscicides                    -       0.25    0.25      -       0.66    0.66    100
Administration                 0.05        -     0.05   0.13         -     0.13      -
Contingencies
(a)  Physical/1               -       0.03    0.03   0.01       0.07    0.08      87
(b)  Price                  0.01      0.03    0.04   0.02       0.08    0.10      80
Cost overrun of Upper       /2
Egypt Drainage I Project       -      1.65    1.65       -      4.22    4.22    100
Subtotal          0.06      1.99    2.05   0.16      5.10    5.26       97
GRAND TOTAL      78.85    31.33  110.18 201.87    80.21  282.08         28.5
/1   Physical contingencies 10% for equipment and 15% for civil works.
/2   Cost for 325 tons of molluscicides.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cost Estimates for Production of PVC Pipes
Total Cost               Year 1 (1977)        Year 2 (1978)         Year 3 (1979)        Year 4 (1980)        Year 5 (1981)
Item                        Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign
--------------------------------------------------------US$ OOO---------------------------------------------------------
Production of PVC Pipes
for Tile Drainage
(a)  Equipment and materials
(i)   Equipment for tile                 -        3,696     3,696        -       1,232        -        2,464        -        -           -        -           -        -
making plants and
spare parts
(ii)  Raw material                       -      14,336    14,336        -        6,000        -        6,000        -       2,336        -        -           -        -
(b)  Installation                              150       390        540         50       130         100      260        -        -            -       -           -        -
(c)  Operation and Maintenance               2,720    3.050       5,770         54        61         380      427          762     854          762     854          762     854
Subtotal                          2,870   21,472    24,342          104    7,423          480    9,151          762   3,190          762      854         762      854
(d)  Contingencies
Physical-'                              430    2,319      2,749          16      752          72       949         114      362         114      128         114      128
Price                                 2,037    5.985      8,022          31    1,106         213    2,293          460   1,234          593      597         740      755
GRAND TOTAL                       56337               35,113        151    9,281          765   12,393        1,336   4,786        1,469   1 579        1 616   1.737
Custom duties                     3,606      -         3,606      1,446      -          1,693      -            467    -            -        -           -        -
/1   10% for equipment and materials and 15% for operation and maintenance.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cost Estimates for Drainage Works
(excluding production of PVC pipes)
Total Cost              Year 1 (1977)         Year 2 (1978)         Year 3 (1979)        Year 4 (1980)       Year 5 (1981)
Item                            Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign    Local    Fore_ign    Local   Foreign         ocal   Foreign    Local   Foreign
Main & Branch Open Drains
Equipment                                     -        5,712     5,712       -        5,000        -          712        -       -
Construction
excavation                                23,400      -       23,400      9,500      -         9,500      -          4,400    -
structures                                26,624      -       26,624    10,000       -        10,000       -         6,624    -
land acquisition                          12850       -       12,850      5,225      -         5,225      -          2,400
Subtotal                            62,874    5,712    68,586    24,725    5,000         24,725       712      13,424    -
Pumping Station
Equipment                                     -          123        123      - -                   -          123        -       -
Civil works & erection                         260        20        280      -         -            260        20        -                    -                   -
Subtotal                               260       143        403       -         -           260       143        -
Tile Laying and Construction
of Collectors
Equipment
for tile laying and collectors              -      11,014    11,014        -        5,000        -       5,000         -      1,014         -       -           -        -
for tile maintenance                        -          269       269       -         -                      269                -
Construction
tile laying and collectors                33,190   12,290    45,480         664       246       4,644    1,721       9,294   3,441        9,294   3,441        9,294   3,441
crop compensation                          7, 500     -        7,500        150      -          1.050      -          2,100    -          2.100    -           2.100    -
Subtotal                            40,690   23,573    64,263          814    5,246       5,694    6,990       11,394   4,455       11,394   3,441       11,394   3,441
Land Reclamation
Equipment                                     -          439        439       -        -           -          300        -         139        -        -           -       -
Materials and work                           1,240      -         1,240          -                           -            800    -             440    -            -
Subtotal                             1,240       439      1,679                  -                    300         800      139         440                 -        -
Agricultural Extension Service
Equipment                                     -          196        196       -        -           -          150                   46        -        -           -       -
Administration and Training
EquiPment                                     -          157        157       -        -           -          157
Buildings (stores, sheds, offices)             442      _           442       -        _            442      -
Overhead cost (10% of local cost)           10,550      -        10,550      255       -          3,112      -          2,562    -           1,183    -           1,139
Subtotal                               10,992       157    11,149      2,554      -          3,554       157       2,562    -           1,183    -          1,139
TOTAL                                 116.056   30,220   146,276    28,093   10,246         34.233    8,452      28.180   4.640       13.017   3.441       12.533   3,441
Contingencies
Physicall                                   17,408    3,637    21,045       4,214    1,037        5,135       932       4,227      636       1,952      516       1,880      516
Price                                       62.908   11.471    74.379       8,400    1.526       15,196    2.270       17.000   2,228       10.136   2.405       12.176   3.042
GRAND TOTAL                           196.372   4528                  40.707   12809        54564       11.654    49.407  7504         25.105   6 362      26.589   6 999  V
Custom Duties                           4,340                          2,420                 1,630                   290                   
/1   107. for eqipment and materials and 15% for civil works.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cost Estimates for Bilharzia Control
Total Cost             Year 1 (1977)       Year 2 (1978)
Item                           Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign
----------------------------US$ million----------------------
Extension Bilharzia Program
Equipment                                   -       0.07     0.07        -      0.07         -
Molluscicides                               -       0.66     0.66        -      0.66         -         -
Administration                            0.13        -      0.13      0.07       -        0.06     _
Subtotal                             0.13     0.73      0.86     0.07      0.73       0.06
Contingencies:  Physical                  0.01     0.07      0.08        -      0.07       0.01
Price                    0.02      0.08     0.10      0.01     0.08       0.01
Total                                0.16     0.88      1.04     0.08      0.88       0.08
Cost Overrun of Upper Egypt Drainage I
Molluscicides                               -       4.22     4.22        -      2.12         -       2.10
GRAND TOTAL                          0.16     5.10      5.26      -.08     3.00                2.10
Xa  M
May 1976                                                                                                          --C



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Cost Comparison for Tile Drainage/- (US$ per feddan)
Using Cement Pipes and Local Contractors                      Using PVC Pipes and Foreign Contractors
(Laying of Collectors by Hand)               /3           (Laying of Collectors by Machine)
Item                            Appraisal Estimates                     Current Estimates                       Current Estimates
Local     Foreign     Total            Local      Foreign     Total            Local      Foreign     Total
Equipment (incl. freight                 2.97       30.57      33.54             2.97      30.57       33.54              _         29.42      29.42
and insurance)
Raw material for PVC pipes                -           -          -                -           -          -                -         28.67      28.67
Production of PVC pipes and             83.70        0.80      84.50           147.20 A     0.80      148.00            71.82       30.68    102.50
construction of tile drainage
Crop compensation                       15.00         -        15.00            15.00         -        15.00            15.00         -        15.00
TOTAL                             101.67      31.37      133.04           165.17      31.37      196.54            86.82       88.77      175.59
/ Excluding physical and price contingencies.
Average unit price of awarded contracts for tile drainage LE 57.5 per feddan.
D   Source EPADP.
May 1976
@ o



ANNEX 6
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Main Drains and Branches-
Cost Estimates
Area served:   500,000 feddans
Total length:  (a)  new drains - 346 km
(b) remodelling - 1,226.5 km
Total volume of excavation (a)  new drains:   10,400,000 m3
(b)  remodelling:  13,000,000 m3
Total    23,400,000 m3
Cost Estimates
Local      Foreign      Total
Ite                          --------------US$-----------
Equipment/2                                           -       5,712,000   5,712,000
Excavation (23,400,000 m3 x US$1)                23,400,000       -       23,400,000
Structures:
(a)  on new drains 350 km x$20,000=             7,000,000       -        7,000,000
(b)  on existing drains 1,226.5 km x$%6,000= 19,624,000         -       19,624,000
Land Acquisition (12,500 fed x US$1,028)         12,850,000       -       12,850,000
Total                                       62,874,000  5,712,000  68,586,000
/1 See detailed list, table 1, Annex 3.
/2 See equipment list, table 1, Annex 8.
May 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Details on Excavation and Remodelling
of Main Open Drains and Branches-/
Area served:   500,000 feddans
Total length: (a) new drains - 346 km
(b) remodelling - 1,226.5 km
Total volume of excavation:  (a)  new drains -    10,400,000 m3
(b)  remodelling -   13,000,000 m3
Total     23,400,000 m3
Volume of excavation per year: (a)  new drains -   5,300,000 m3
(b)  remodelling -  4,300,000 m3
Total    9,600,000 m3
Annual output of excavating machines
(a)  dragline 1lm3 : 180m3/hour x 2,000 hours = 360,000 m3/year
(b)  dragline lm3  : 120m3/hour x 2,000 hours = 240,000 m3/year
(c)  hydraulic excavator 3/4m3 : 100m3/hour x 2,000 hours = 200,000 m3/year
Required excavators (calculated on the basis of completion of work in two
years for the new drains and three years for the
remodelling)
(a)  draglines 1m3 (to be used for 70% of the volume of excavation of new
drains) 3,700,000 : 360,000 = 11 plus 1 spare = 12
(b) draglines lm3 (to be used for 30% of the volume of excavation of new
drains plus 50% of remodelling) 3,740,000 : 240,000 = 16 plus 1 spare = 17
(c) hydraulic excavators 3/4m3 (to be used for 50% of the total volume of
remodelling)  2,150,000 : 200,000 = 11 plus 1 spare = 12
Civil works/2
(a)  excavation:  23,400,000 m3 x US$1.0 = US$23,400,000
(b)  structures:  (1)  existing drains 1,226.5 km x$16,000 = US$19,624,000
(2)  new drains 350 km x$20,000 =                 7,000,000
US$26,624,000
Land Acquisition
2.5% x 500,000 feddans = 12,500 feddans x US$1,028 = US$12,850,000
/1   See detailed list, table 1, Annex 3.
/2   Excluding equipment.
May 1976



ANNEX ,
Table 8
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Estimated Cost for Tile Drainage and Construction of Collectors /1
Local         Foreign         Total
Ite                             -----------US$/feddan----------
Production of PVC Pipes /2
Maintenance of PVC plant                 0.20            0.80          1.00
(excluding major spare parts)
Energy                                   2.45             -            2.45
Labor                                    0.75             -            0.75
Transport of raw material                1.20             -            1.20
to the plant
Salaries for foreign technicians         0.40            1.60          2.00
Overhead cost                            0.44            1.78          2.22
Contractor's profit and risk              -              1.92          1.92
Total                              5.44             6.10         11.54
Laying of Tile Drains
and Construction of Collectors /3
Transport of pipes to the field          0.90             -            0.90
Maintenance laying machine (exc spares) 0.20             0.47          0.67
Labor for tile laying machine            3.56             -            3.56
Fuel and oil                             1.39             -            1.39
Gravel filter                           19.20             -           19.20
Backfill                                 1.65             -            1.65
Construction of collectors              33.52            0.28         33.80
Salaries for foreign experts             0.40            1.60          2.00
Overhead cost                            2.53           10.10         12.63
Contractor's profit and risk             3.03           12.13         15.16
Total                             66.38            24.58         90.96
/1 For details see Table 9.
/2 Excluding cost for raw material.
/3 Excluding cost for machinery and major spare parts.
Mav 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Details on Cost Calculations for Tile Drainage
A. Production of PVC Pipes
1. Maintenance of Plant (excluding major spare parts)
5% on total cost: $1,000,000 x 5% = $50,000
One plant can produce pipes for 240 fed/day or 50,000 fed/year
Cost per feddan $50,000 - 50,000 fed = $1.00 of which 80% foreign exchange
for expatriate specialist and spare
parts ($0.80) & 20% local currency ($0.20)
2. Energy Cost for Plant
Operation: 370 kw x 24 hours = 8,880 kwh x 0.025 = LE 222.0
Repair, etc.                        320 kwh x 0.025 = LE   8.0
Total   BE 230.0/day or $589/day
Cost per feddan $589 -. 240 = $2.45, all in local currency
3. Labor Cost for Plant
3 trained operators x 5.0 =         LE 15.0
6 trained assistants x 4.0 =           24.0
6 laborers x 1.5 =                       9.0
BE 48.0
Labor will be paid for 365 days/year
Corresponding cost per working day 365 x 48.0 = LE 70.1 = $179.4
250
Cost per feddan $179.4 - 240 = $0.75, all in local currency
4. Transport of Raw Material to the Plant
Distance from Alexandria 750 km in average
Cost per ton/km 0.015 EE
Cost per ton 0.015 x 750 = LE 11.250
Loading/unloading                2.250
13.500 = $35
Cost per feddan $35 x 0.032 ton = $1.20, all in local currency
5. Salaries for Foreign Technicians
Two technicians per plant - annual salary $50,000
Cost per feddan $100,000 - 50,000 fed = $2.00 of which 80% in foreign exchange
($1.60) and 20% in local
currency ($0.40)
6. Overhead Cost
30% of total cost (excluding cost of raw material)
$7.40 x 30% = $2.22 of which 80% in foreign exchange ($1.78)
and 20% in local currency ($0.44)
7. Contractor's Profit and Risk
20% of total cost (including overhead cost but excluding cost of raw
material and equipment)
$9.62 x 20%= $1.92, all in foreign exchange



ANNEX 6
Table 9
Page 2
B. Laying of Tile Drainage and Construction of Collectors
1. Transport of Tiles to the Field
Distance in average 70 km
One truck of 7 tons can carry 20 rolls (= 4,000 m of pipes)
Cost for transport -   truck              LE  8.00
driver                2.50
assistant             0.75
loading/unloading    3.00
Total LE 14.25 or $36.5
4,000 m of pipes = 40 feddans
Cost per feddan $36.5 - 40 = $0.90, all in local currency
2. Maintenance Laying Machine (excluding major spare parts)
3.5% per yearx $80,000 = $3,000
One machine can lay 4,500 feddan/year
Cost per feddan $3,000 -t 4,500 = $0.67 of which 70% in foreign exchange ($0.47)
for expatriate technician and 30% in
local currency ($0.20)
3. Labor for Tile Laying Machine
One driver       x 5.000 = LE  5.000
Two assistants  x 2.000 =       4.000
Six laborers    x 1.000 =       6.000
Two surveyors   x 2.500 =       5.000
20.000
Supervision, etc.        5.000
Total    LE 25.000 or $64
One machine can lay 18 feddan per day
Cost per feddan $64 - 18 = $3.56, all in local currency
4. Fuel and Oil
Fuel:  120 HP x 0.25 = 30 1/hour x 0.025 = BE 0.750
Oil 20%                                     =    0.150
Transport, waste, etc.                      =    0.300
Cost per hour    4E 1.200
Working hours/day 8 x 1.200 = EE 9.600 = $25
One machine can lay 18 feddan per day
Cost per feddan $25 - 18 = $1.39, all in local currency
5. Gravel Filter
Amount needed 15 I/m of tile drain of 1.5m3/feddan
-cost of raw gravel
(including digging and transport to crusher)               LE  2.000
-cost of crushing                                               0.200
- cost of transport (average distance 50 km)
2 ton/m3 x 50 km x 0.015 LE/km/ton                          1.500
-cost for laying (15 laborers x 0.8 LE + 2.0 BE for fuel
for 20m3 of gravel)  0.700
Subtotal      4.400
Supervision       .600
Total LE/m3      5.000
or      $12.80
Cost per feddan: 1.5 m3 x 12.8 = $19.2, all in local currency



ANNEX 6
Table 9
Page 3
6.  Backfill
One 4-wheel tractor with rear mount Grader Blade can fill 2,500 m of trenches
per day or 25 fed.
Operation cost for tractor per day (8 hours) hE 16.00 or $41.000
Cost per feddan $41.00 i 25 = $1.65, all in local currency.
7. Collectors
Length/feddan 12 m of 10" concrete pipes
Cost per feddan:
(a) Cost ot pipes LE 0.600 x 12 = E 7.200
Transport of pipes                 1.200 = BE 8.400 = $21.50
(b)  Maintenance laying machine $0.40 of which 70% foreign exchange for
expatriate technician
(c)  Labor -     machine operators LE 32.000/day
(800 m of pipes) cost per feddan BE  0.480
joints and manholes                     1.200
surveyors - supervision                1.200
Total    UE  2.880 or $7.40
(d) Materials (cement, sand, etc.) LE 1.200 or $3.00
(e)  Backfill                         LE 0.60  'or $1.50
Total cost for collectors: $33.80/feddan, of which $0.28 in foreign
exchange and $33.52 in local currency
8. Expatriate Experts and Technicians
20 man/year x $50,000 = $1,000,000
Cost per feddan: $1,000,000 : 500,000= $2.00of which 80% in foreign exchange
($1.60) and 20% in local currency ($0.40)
9. Overhead Cost
20% of total cost (excluding equipment) $63.17 x 20% = $12.63 of which 80%
in foreign exchange ($10.10 and 20%
in local currency ($2.53)
10. Contractor's Profit and Risk
Total cost for tile laying and collectors: $75.80 per feddan (excluding equipment)
Profit and risk 20%                           $15.16 per feddan of which 80%
in foreign exchange ($12.13)
and 20% in local currency
($3.03)
May 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 10
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Pumping Station (Menshat El Dahab)
Cost Estimates
Local      Foreign       Total
Item                        -------------US$------------
Equipment
3 pumping units x 20,000                   -          60,000      60,000
Freight and insurance                      -           7,000        7,000
Power transmission line                    -          50,000      50,000
Freight and insurance                      -           6,000        6,000
Subtotal                              -        123,000      123,000
Civil Works and Erection
Pumping station                         150,000         -        150,000
Power transmission line                  50,000         -         50,000
Erection of pumps                        20,000       20,000      40,000
Housing                                  40,000         -         40,000
Subtotal                          260,000       20,000      280,000
Total                              260,000     143,000      403,000
May 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 11
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Buildings
Cost Estimates
Item                   Local      Foreign        Total
---       -u$--      ---US$-
Offices (600 m2 x $120)            72,000         -           72,000
Training Center                   100,000         -          100,000
Stores (1,500 m3 x $80)           120,000         -          120,000
Sheds for storage of PVC pipes
in the field
(6 x 500 m2 = 3,000 m2 x $50)  150,000          -         150,000
Total                      442,000         -         442,000
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 12
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Reclamation of Saline Land
Cost Estimates
Total Area:      12,000 feddans
of which 8,000 feddans alkali soils
Item                           Local           Foreign          Total
--US$-----     
Equipment (see below)                             -             439,490          439,490
Materials and Work
Gypsum: 8,000 fed x 20 tons = 160,000 tons
x $5 =                              800,000             -            800,000
Spreading of gypsum:  8,000 fed x $10          80,000                          80,000
Subsoiling, pumping: 12,000 fed x $30         360,000            -            360,000
1,240,000         439,490       1,679,490
Cost per Feddan
(a) Saline Soils (12,000 feddan)
(i) equipment:
crawler tractors        120,000
wheeled tractors ()    48,000
PUmps                     30,000
miscellaneous (2/3)       20,000
spare parts (2/3)        43,000
freight insurance (12%) 31,320
Subtotal              292,320
(ii)  work                       360,000
Subtotal              652,320 : 12,000   $54.36
(b) Alkaline Soils (4,000 feddan)
(i) equipment:
wheeled tractors ()    48,000
conveyors                 6,000
spreader trailers        45,000
miscellaneous (1/3)       10,000
spare parts (1/3)        22,400
freight insurance (12%) 15,770
Subtotal              147,170
(ii) gypsum                      800,000
(iii)  work                        80,000
Total               1,027,170   8,000 = $128.40
(additional to $54.36)
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 13
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (for IDA/IBRD Credit/Loan)
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
IBRD Fiscal Year                  For               For
and Quarter                   Drainage        Bilharzia         Total
----US$ million --------
1976/77
March 31, 1977                      3.2              1.5           4.7
June 30, 1977                       6.4              2.0           8.4
1977/78
September 30, 1977                  9.6              2.5          12.1
December 31, 1977                 12.8               3.0          15.8
March 31, 1978                    15.7               3.5          19.2
June 30, 1978                     18.6               4.0          22.6
1978/79
September 30, 1978                21.5               4.5          26.0
December 31, 1978                 24.5               5.1          29.6
March 31, 1979                    26.3               5.1          31.4
June 30, 1979                      28.2              5.1          33.3
1979/80
September 30, 1979                30.0               5.1          35.1
December 31, 1979                 32.0               5.1          37.1
March 31, 1980                     33.6              5.1          38.7
June 30, 1980                     35.2               5.1          40.3
1980/81
September 30, 1980                36.8               5.1          41.9
December 31, 1980                  38.3              5.1          43.4
March 31, 1981                    40.0               5.1          45.1
June 30, 1981                     41.6               5.1          46.7
1981/82
September 30, 1981                43.2               5.1          48.3
December 31, 1981                 44.9               5.1          50.0
Closing Date                                                 June 1983
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Local Funds Required for Bank's Drainage Projects
(Government contribution)L.
Previous
Project                   Years       1976     1977      1978     1979      1980     1981     Total
---------------------------------LE million----------------------------
Nile Delta Drainage Project            37.70      12.56   13.22    11.91    10.54         -        -       85.93
Upper Egypt Drainage I Project          7.58      10.42    9.76      6.60      6.60     1.75       -       42.71
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project          -           -     15.99    21.64    19.82    10.38    11.02       78.85
Total                             45.28      22.98   38.97    40.15    36.96    12.13    11.02    207.49
/1 Including Bilharzia control component.
May 1975
(D P
H o
4'-



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost
A.   Operation and Maintenance Cost for Drainage Pumping
Assumptions:
-    Area served:          29,600 feddans
-    Discharge:            3.5 m3/sec
-    Maximum head:         2.0 m
-    Average head:         1.7 m
-    Maximum load:         110 kw
-    Amount of water pumped per year:  1,000 m3 x 29,600 fed   29,600,000 m3
-    Pumping station cost: (a) Building                      : $150,000
(b) Equipment plus installation:  $163,000
(c) Transmission line           : $ 50,000
(d) Housing                     : $ 40,000
Total               $403,000
1.        Maintenance Cost                            US$
-    Building:               150,000 x 1.5% =  2,250
-    Equipment:              163,000 x 3%   =  4,890
-    Transmission line:       50,000 x 2%   =  1,100
-    Housing:                 40,000 x 2%   =    800
Total              8,940
Cost per feddan:   8,940 : 29,600 = US$0.30



-Na
2.        Operation Cost
Energy:    30,000,000 x 2.0            340,000 kwh
270 x 0.6 x 1.36 x
340,000 kwh x $0.0!
Cost per feddan:  21i-,A&:C  29,6GG
Labor:     Chief operator:   L x    amom-n-s x  l2' )=  L'40
Operators:        2 xa 1x.               =  1 - 2
Mechanics:         -x            x       _  1200
Laborers:                        x x   x J  1o
Trcai       6,33C
Cost per feddan:  t6360   2 i,60        G                22\
Oil, transport, contingencibs ---  - ----- --
Operation cost p!r feddarn.                            -1. 3
Total annual cos: for 0 S M per feddan    US$1.60
B.   Operation and Maintenance Cost f)r Open 4a_ .Drc-inG
Assumptions:
-    Excavated volume of main drains per feddan:             50 m3
-    Cost of excavation (includirng machine,y) per feddan: $60
-    Cost of structures per fed6an:                          $40
Maintenance Cost
-    Earth works:  $60 x 2%  =  $120 per feddan
-    Structures:   $40 x 1%  =  $0.4'3  7    *t
-    Weed Control:                $0.20  If   *
Total annual cost    $L.80 per feddan
C.   Operation and Maintenance Cost .or Tile Drainage
-    Investment cost per feddan   $160
-    Annual maintenance cost:       $i60 x 1% = $O1.60



ANNEX 7
Page 3
D.   Total Operation and Maintenance Costs for the Project Area
-    Drainage pumping:  $1.60 x 29,600 feddans  = $   47,000
-    Open drains:        $1.80 x 500,000   "i            900,000
-    Tile drains:        $1.60 x 500,000    "    =    800,000
Total      $1,747,000
or       LE 680,000
E.   Replacement Cost
-    Replacement of pumps and motors
(once every 12 years)                      $163,000 or LE 64,000



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
List of Equipment for Drainage Works
Unit       Equipment to be Imported             Equipment to be Imported               Total
Item                                           Price            by Contractors                    Directly by EPADP                    Cost
US$         Quantity      Cost US$              Quantity       Cost US$                US$
A. PRODUCTION OP PVC PIPES
Pipe production complete plants                           1,000,000           3        3,000,000                                                 3,000,000
Spare parts (107.)                                                           Sum         300,000                                                    300,000
Raw material for PVC pipes (tons)                               800                                            16,000      12,800,000           12,800,000
Freight and insurance (127%)                                                  _           396,000                           1,536.000             1.932.000
Subtotal                                                                          3,696,000                           14,336,000           18,032,000
Physical contingencies (10%)                                                        370.ooo                            1.434o000            1 804 000
TOTAL A                                                                      4.066,000                           15,770,000           19,836,000
B. DRAINAGE WORKS
Excavation and Remodellin of Open Drains
Dragline excavators l.5mJ                                  90,000                                                12       1,080,000             1,080;000
Dragline excavators I m3                                   70,000                                                17       1,190,000             1,190,000
Hydraulic excavators 3/4 m3                                60,000                                                12          720,000              720,000
Transporters for excavators (60 ton)                       75,000                                                 6         450,000               450,000
Extra tractor for transporter                              50,000                                                 1          50,000                50,000
Trucks 7.5 tons                                            15,000                                                15         225,000               225,000
Pickups                                                     6,000                                                15           90,000               90,000
Jeeps                                                       6,000                                                15           90,000               90,000
Workshop equipment                                                         Sum                                  Sum           30,000               30,000
Spare parts (307)                                                                                                         1,175,000            1,175,000
Freight and insurance (127%)                                                                                                 612.000              612.000
Subtotal                                                                                                               5,712,000            5,712,000
Pumnping Station
Pump and motors (incl. spare parts)                        20,000                                                 3           60,000               60,000
Power transmission line                                                                                         Sum           50,000               50,000
Freight and insurance (127%)                                                                                                  13.000               13.000
Subtotal                                                                                                                 123,000               123,000
Tile Drainage
Gravel crusher complete plants (incl. spares)             150,000           4           600,000                                                   600,000
Tile laying machines                                       80,000          33        2,640,000                                                  2,640,000
Spare parts for above (307.)                                                            792,000                                                   792,000
Collector laying machines                                 115,000          10        1,150,000                                                  1,150,000
Spare parts for above (30%)                                                            345,000                                                    345,000
Transporters (tractor and trailer)                         75,000           4           300,000                                                   300,000
General purpose trailers (3 tons)                           1,000         200           200,000                                                   200,000
Wheeled tractors                                           10,000         100         1,000,000                                                 1,000,000
Backhoes                                                   35,000          10           350,000                                                   350,000
Four-wheel tractors with rear mount grader blade            15,000         30           450,000                                                   450,000
Trucks and trailers (7.5 tons)                             18,000                                                20          360,000              360,000
Pickups                                                     6,000                                                50          300,000              300,000
Station wagons                                              6,000                                                12           72,000               72,000
Jeeps                                                       6,000                                                50          300,000              300,000  a a
Motorcycles                                                   500                                                30           15,000               15,000   w -'
Mobile cranes (7 tons)                                     40,000                                                 4          160,000              160,000
Spare parts for vehicles and tractors (20%)                                            460,000                               240,000              700,000   '''c
Workshop equipment                                                                                                           100,000              100,000
Freight and insurance (127.)                                                            994.000                              186.000            1.180.000
Subtotal                                                                          9,281,000                            1,733,000            11,014,000
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
List of Equipment for Drainage Works
Unit       Equipment to be Imported              Equipment to be Imported               Total
Item                                             Price            by Contractors                    Directly by EPADP                    Cost
US$         Quantity      Cost US$               Quantity       Cost US$                US$
Tile Drainage Maintenance
Tile maintenance equipment units (incl. spares)                6,000                                                40           240,000                240,000
Freight and insurance (12%)                                                                                                        29,000                29.000
Subtotal                                                                                                                   269,000                269,000
Land Reclamation
Crawler tractors with attachments                             60,000                                                  2           120,000               120,000
Wheeled tractors with attachments                             12,000                                                  8            96,000                 96,000
Loading belt conveyors                                         3,000                                                  2             6,000                 6,000
Pumps with engines and trailers                                3,000                                                 10            30,000                30,000
Spreader trailers                                              9,000                                                  5           45,000                 45,000
Miscellaneous equipment and tools                                                                                   Sum            30,000                 30,000
Spare parts (20%)                                                                                                                  65,000                65,000
Freight and insurance (12%)                                                                                                        47,000                47,000
Subtotal                                                                                                                    439,000                439,000
Agricultural Extension Service
General purpose vehicles                                       6,000                                                 20           120,000               120,000
Motorcycles                                                      500                                                 30            15,000                 15,000
Miscellaneous equipment and spare parts                                                                             Sum            40,000                 40,000
Freight and insurance (12%)                                                                                                        21.000                 21.000
Subtotal                                                                                                                    196,000                196,000
Administration and Training
Office equipment                                                                                                    Sum            40,000                 40,000
Laboratory equipment                                                                                                Sum            40,000                 40,000
Training equipment                                                                                                  Sum            40,000                 40,000
Miscellaneous equipment and spare parts                                                                             Sum            20,000                 20,000
Freight and insurance (12%)                                                                                         Sum            17,000              :17.000
Subtotal                                                                                                                     157.000               157,000
TOTAL                                                                               9,281,000                             8,629,000             17,910,000
Physical contingencies (107)                                                           928.000                              863.000              1.791.000
TOTAL B                                                                            10,209,000                             9.492.000             19,701,000  '0'0
GRAND TOTAL (A + B)                                                           14.275,000                            25.262 000             395     0   X
May 1976



ANNEX R
Table 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DetaLls on Required Equipment and Materials for Tile Drainage
1.  TILE MAKING PLANTS -/
- Output per plant for 80 mm pipes:   1,000 m/hour or 24,000 m/day (24 hours)
or 5,000,000 m/year (5,000 hours)
- Maximum rate of tile drainage
construction per year:              140,000 fed x 100 m = 14,000,000 m
- Required number of plants:            3
2. RAW MATERIAL
- Weight of raw material per
meter of 80 mm pipe:                0.320 kg
- Total length of tile drains:          500,000 fed x 100 = 50,000,000 m
- Total required raw material:          50,000,000 m x 0.320 kg = 16,000 tons
3. TILE LAYING TRENCHING MACHINES
- Output of machine:                    300 m/hour or 1,800 m/day (6 hours)
or 450,000 m/year (250 days)
- Maximum rate of tile drainage
laying per year:                    140,000 fed x 100 m = 14,000,000 m
- Required number of machines:          14,000,000 -^ 450,000 = 31 + 2 spare = 33
4. GRAVEL CRUSHERS
- Output of machine:                    25 m3/hour or 200 m /day (8 hours) or
50,000 m3/year (250 days)
- Rate of tile drainage per year:       140,000 fed
- Required amount of gravel per year: 140,000 fed x 1.5 m3 = 200,000 m3
- Required number of crushing
machines:                           200,000 -  50,000 = 4
1/ Plant includes: Extruder, corrugator, pipe puncher, reeling unit, standby genera-
tor, prefabricated shed and silos for raw material.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2
5. FOUR-WHEEL TRACTORS WITH REAR MOUNT GRADER BLADE FOR BACKFILL
- Output of machine:                     25 fed per day (2,500 m) or
6,250 fed per year
- Maximum rate of tile drainage          140,000 fed
per year:
- Required number of tractors
for tile drains:                    140,000 fed - 6,250 = 23
- Required number of tractors
for collectors:                                              5
- Spare:                                                          2
Total:                 30
6.  COLLECTOR LAYING MACHINES
- Output per machine:                    200,000 m/year
- Length of collectors:                  12 m/feddan
- Maximum annual rate of                 140,000 feddans x 12 m = 1,680,000 m
construction:
- Required number of laying
machines:                            1,680,000 - 200,000 = 9 + 1 spare = 10
7.  OTHER EQUIPMENT                         Quantity
- Transporters (tractor and trailer)    4
- Wheeled agricultural tractors          100
for transport
- General purpose trailers (3 ton)    200
- Backhoes                                10
- Trucks and trailers (7.5 tons)          20
- Pickups                                 50
- Station wagons                          12
- Jeeps                                   50
- Motorcycles                             30
- Mobile cranes (7 ton)                    4
- Spare parts
- Workshop equipment
May 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Agricultural Credit, Cooperatives, Marketing and Prices
Agricultural Credit
1.        Following a lengthy experience with various kinds of land and commer-
cial banks which commenced operations in the 1880s, the establishment in 1931
of the Agricultural Credit Bank allowed a wider participation by farmers in in-
stitutional credit facilities, by granting loans on easier terms than those ob-
taining previously. With an extension of this Bank's activities to include
various kinds of cooperatives it became clear that further policy changes were
needed to provide for small tenant farmers, who cultivated more than two thirds
of the land. In 1952 some of these changes were introduced. Farmers were per-
mitted to obtain credit on the security of their crops alone, and loans were
made exclusively through agricultural cooperatives which had wide supervisory
powers. By 1962, all loans of the reconstituted Agricultural and Cooperative
Credit Bank were flowing through cooperatives. In 1964 an organizational
change took place which established the General Organization for Agricultural
and Cooperative Credit (GOACC) with responsibility for credit policy and super-
vision. This organization then exercised control over the ACC Banks in Gover-
norates and their sub-branches at district level, which in turn were respons-
ible for all. operations with cooperatives and their members. In 1962, also,
the long term loans which had been floated by the ACC Bank to finance its
operations were consolidated into a LE 30 million bond issue taken over by the
Central Bank of Egypt. To finance further expansion, borrowing commenced from
commercial banks, and reached a level of LE 131 million by mid-1972. The
GOACC pays a higher interest rate on these borrowings from commercial banks
than it receives from onlending to farmers, and the resulting deficit is
covered by a subsidy in the Government Budget.
2.        There are autonomous ACC banks in each of the 17 Governorates,
each one financing branches in Markaz towns of which there are 130 in Egypt.
In turn the Markaz branches supply cooperative societies, one in each of the
approximately 4,000 villages in the country. The GOACC staff numbers, approx-
imately, 3000 in Cairo and 17,000 in ACC Banks throughout the country. In
addition, each cooperative has a staff of 3-5 persons.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        The ACC Banks lend only for short term and medium term purposes
(up to 10 years). Short term loans, for crop expenses, are provided for
periods of up to 14 months. Terms of other loans vary with the purpose, e.g.
livestock 2-5 years, machinery 3-5 years, drainage canals or orchards 5 years,
buildings or soil amelioration 10 years. There are no grace periods for
medium term loans, but repayment may be lower in early years as, for example,
with a five-year loan for orchard development, which may be repaid 10% in the
first year, 15% in the second, and 25% in each of the remaining 3 years. All
loans carry a 4-1/2% per annum commission charge, and there are no other
charges except for the annual fee for membership in the cooperative, set at
LE 0.35 per feddan of land.
4.        While short term loans require for security only a lien on the crop
itself, medium term loans are not given to tenants without a guarantee from
the landowner. In practice such a guarantee is rare, so that effectively
most medium term loans flow only to landowners. However, the land itself
is mortgaged only for soil amelioration loans, while livestock and machinery
are regarded as security for loans relating to these items. Because of the
mandatory marketing system for several commodities and the extensive market-
ing service offered by cooperatives for most commodities, problems of default
on loans are reduced, since after taxes, loan repayment has top priority and
appropriate amounts are deducted from commodity payments made to farmers.
For crop loans fixed amounts per feddan in kind (seeds, fertilizer) and cash
are calculated each year for each crop by consultation between the GOACC and
technical sections of the Ministry of Agriculture. There are also guidelines
governing provision of loans for livestock and machinery.
5.        Total lending activity of the ACC Banks has risen from LE 36.6 mil-
lion in 1959/60 to LE 81.4 million in 1974/75, an average rate of increase of
5.4% per annum. However, increases in lending slowed significantly from the
middle 1960s onward (Table 1) and total loans have yet to regain the level
reached in the 1966/67 period. This implies that lending in real terms has
actually been falling in recent years, although fixed prices for fertilizer
over a long period have ensured that application rates have not fallen off.
Short term loans for seasonal crop expenses have made up more than 98% of
total lending in the past five years, with cotton accounting for between
40% and 50% of the short term volume (Table 1).
6.        The Government plans to gradually raise the levels of application
of crop inputs, especially fertilizer, and this alone will require increased
allocations of agricultural credit in the near future. The present project
focuses on removing one key limiting factor in agriculture, namely the
surplus of water resulting from inadequate drainage. An attempt has been
made to compute benefits from adequate drainage alone, with inputs remaining
at present levels. Since the current volume of agricultural credit is judged
to be adequate to support input application at present levels, no provision
is made in the project for additional credit.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Cooperatives and Marketing Arrangements
7.        It is compulsory for all farmers to be members of their local coop-
eratives, and all cooperatives are supervised by the Undersecretariat for
Agricultural Cooperation in the Ministry of Agriculture. Under this supervisory
and regulatory umbrella, three national cooperative societies--the General
Reclamation C.S., Agrarian Reform C.S. and General Agricultural C.S.--respec-
tively oversee local cooperatives in reclaimed lands (300 cooperatives), re-
formed lands (700 cooperatives) and in the old lands (4,000 cooperatives).
The local cooperative society provides all major inputs needed for traditional
crops (except seed potatoes), acts as a channel for credit from the ACC banks,
ensures that government plans for agriculture are followed by farmer members,
maintains business records for each farm, and provides the major market outlet
for many of the traditional crops as well as making the compulsory procurement
of non-food crops and certain proportions of several food crops. Each cooper-
ative is managed by an agricultural engineer paid by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture to carry out both managerial and extension activities. A chief accountant
employed by the GOACC oversees both credit and marketing, and other staff
generally include a storekeeper and 1-2 clerks. There is in some areas an
overlap between Old Lands and Reform Lands cooperatives which both exist in a
particular village. This tends to weaken both societies, and in addition many
cooperatives are characterized by low levels of managerial skills and lack of
profitability.
8.        Each year the government sets buying prices at the cooperatives for
most commodities. Generally these are lower than those obtainable in the free
market, and the latter has widespread activity in spite of Government's favor
for the cooperative system and occasional discrimination against the free
market. The latter operates most widely for non-traditional crops, particu-
larly vegetables and non-citrus fruits. Government-established organizations--
the El Nile and El Wadi companies and the Union of Producers and Exporters of
Horticultural Crops (UPEHC)--handle most exports of edible crops such as rice,
potatoes, groundnuts, onions, tomatoes and citrus fruit. Government had a
mandatory procurement in 1975 of 25% of wheat, 50% of rice and 100% of the
cotton crop which Is totally regulated, including the specification of areas
sown. Sugar cane is delivered to local factories which control production
each in their own surrounding areas.
9.        The GOACC and ACC Banks are responsible for receiving all fertilizers,
pesticides, processed animal feedstuffs and gypsum for soil amelioration, and
for transporting and distributing these to agricultural cooperatives. For fer-
tilizer, average recommended rates are set by the Ministry of Agriculture for
each crop in each district and these are minimum levels which the farmers can
purchase. Fertilizers are obtained by the ACC Banks from the Agricultural
Stabilization Fund in the Ministry of Agriculture which imports or procures
locally. The GOACC has about 400 fertilizer warehouses nationwide with a total
capacity of about 400,000 tons. Pest control chemicals are included in credit



ANNEX 9
Page 4
arrangements (either in kind or cash) through the cooperatives for many
crops, but pest control in cotton is implemented by the cooperatives themselves
with expenses divided among farmers according to their cotton areas. Certi-
fied seed is also delivered by the ACC Banks through the cooperatives under
supervision of the Seed Department of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Market Outlook and Prices - Main Inputs and Outputs
10.       Fertilizers.  Egypt manufactures its total requirements of phosphatic
fertilizers, mainly in the form of single superphosphate (15% P205) made from
local phosphate rock and imported sulphur. Total installed capacity is about
100,000 tons of P205 per year. Projected increases in phosphate consumption
(Table 2) may be met from either capacity expansion (tentatively planned) or
imports. The price to the farmer was LE 15.58/ton (15% P205) in 1974, which
was considerably below international phosphate prices. Based on IBRD projec-
tions for Triple Superphosphate, whose price level is expected to fall somewhat
in terms of constant 1975 prices, an economic price of LE 47 per ton is adopted.
Most major types of nitrogenous fertilizers are manufactured in Egypt, but
imports are still substantial and are expected to remain so until 1978, when
the Talkha urea plant comes on stream (Table 2). The price in 1974 was about
LE 21/ton (15.5% N) considerably below international market prices. An economic
price of LE 46/ton is adopted, reflecting IBRD projections for Urea in the inter-
mediate term.
11.       Wheat.  An increase in wheat production of about 45,000 tons is ex-
pected with the project, compared with present production of about 117,000 tons.
Egypt remains a substantial importer (1.5 million tons of wheat and 0.2 mil-
lion tons of flour in 1973 compared with production of 1.9 million tons of
wheat in 1973/74 - Table 3) and this situation is likely to continue so that
increased production will be readily absorbed and will substitute for imports.
The farm price was LE 46.93/ton in 1974 (including higher priced Mexican
wheats) and the official price in 1975 for local varieties was LE 46.67/ton
(Table 4). Prices of LE 46/ton for financial analysis and LE 100/ton for
economic analysis are adopted, the latter based on projected import parity
prices.
12.       Maize and Sorghum.  These crops, whose output is projected to in-
crease with the project from about 377,000 tons to 481,000 tons, are not the
subject of official price setting in Egypt because they are regarded as sub-
sistence commodities entering the market system in only a small way. Average
realized prices in 1974 were respectively LE 50.79/ton and LE 43.86/ton. In
the intermediate term, in international markets, both commodities are expected
to face price reductions (in terms of constant 1975 prices) with the decline
being slightly greater for sorghum than for maize. Basec on projected import
parity levels, economic prices are adopted of LE 73/ton for maize and LE 66/ton
for sorghum.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
13.       Sugar Cane.  Production of sugar in Egypt rose from 1970 to 1973
but fell back somewhat in 1974, accompanied by a significant rise in imports.
For several years prior to 1974 Egypt had both exported and imported sugar,
but a previous export surplus had changed into a deficit, with imports in-
creasing to sustain steadily rising domestic consumption (Table 3). It is
likely that the increased sugar produced as a result of the project (about
29,000 tons) will be absorbed domestically as a substitute for imports.
For financial analysis, a price of LE 6/ton of sugar cane is adopted, this
being the official buying price for 1975. This price is considerably below
equivalent prices for internationally traded sugar, which reached a cyclical
peak in 1974 but are projected to decline substantially. Based on projections,
and making allowances for sugar extraction percentage, processing costs, etc.,
an economic price of LE 19/ton sugar cane is adopted.
14.       Onion.  Egypt is the world's largest exporter of onion, which is
the country's fourth most important export crop. Most of the exports are still
in the form of fresh bulbs, but the proportion being sent in dehydrated form is
increasing. Winter onion, grown solely in Upper and Middle Egypt, is the
main source of all onion exports.  Because of heavy attacks of white rot disease
in recent years, encouraged in large measure by increasingly wet soil conditions
due to inadequate drainage, production and exports of onion have been declining.
The drainage project will arrest these declines, although getting rid of the
disease will cause recovery to be slow. The project is estimated to increase
production by 20,000 tons (39%) within 9 years. Exports are expected to in-
crease somewhat, and projected demand increases in European markets should
ensure that export prices will at least not fall. For financial analysis the
price of LE 22/ton is adopted, an average over all grades for official prices
in 1975. For economic analysis, export prices are taken to stabilize at about
the level achieved in the 1973/74 season, and a farmgate price based on this
is LE 82/ton.
15.       Cotton.  This is the single most important crop in Egyptian agricul-
ture, providing 74% of the value of raw agricultural exports in 1973 and, in
the form of yarn and textiles, 55% of the value of processed exports. In 1974,
raw cotton and cotton yarn together accounted for 52% of the value of all
exports, and cotton textile exports would further boost this percentage.
Years of careful breeding have developed cotton varieties with extra long
staple and extremely high quality, commanding premium prices in the inter-
national market. In recent years most of Egypt's cotton exports have gone to
the USSR and Eastern Europe under bilateral agreements, but it is thought
that some of this is re-exported to other European markets. An increasing
proportion of the cotton crop has been used in the domestic textile industry,
rising from about 38% of total lint produced in 1970/71 to about 41% in 1973.
Of the cotton lint used locally, probably about 60% had staple length 1-1/8 -
1/-1/4 inches, 25% had staple length 1-1/4 - 1-3/8 inches, and 15% was in the
extra long staple category over 1-3/8 inches. International cotton prices
jumped in 1973 and 1974 but fell back again in 1975. The official price
to farmers in Egypt partly reflected the earlier increases by moving from



ANNEX 9
Page 6
LE 150.22/ton (unginned cotton) in 1974 to LE 162.92/ton in 1975. A level
of LE 163/ton is adopted for financial analysis. Based on projections, an
economic price is adopted of LE 1,116/ton for cotton lint, which translates
into a farmgate price of LE 405/ton for unginned cotton, allowing for baling,
handling, storage and ginning costs, and a value of LE 80/ton for cotton seed.
One ton of unginned (seed) cotton is assumed to produce 356 kg of lint, 635
kg of seed and 9 kg of scarto. The project is expected to increase total
production of unginned cotton by 24,000 tons, from 86,000 tons to 110,000
tons, over a period of 9 years.
16.       General.  As can be seen from data presented (Tables 4 and 5) and
the above discussion, the Government has been following a policy of keeping
retail prices for agricultural commodities at low and stable levels. This
has been achieved by also keeping farmgate prices low by international stand-
ards, using a combination of mandatory procurement and a very visible official
presence. The situation is further complicated by the fact that the currency
is widely viewed as being overvalued, and the Government itself has established
a parallel market, which will be gradually extended to cover most transactions,
in which the exchange rate was LE 1 = US$1.70 at the time of appraisal, by
comparison with the official exchange rate of LE 1 = US$2.56. Consequently,
prices used for economic analysis of this project, based on international
levels, are generally considerably higher than those used for financial
analysis, based on domestic prices.



APPRAISAL OF
ANNEX 9
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT                   Table 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Egypt - Agricultural Credit
(LE million)
(a) Loans by Term
Total Loans
Year                          (LE million)                    Medium-Term                     Short-Term
1959/60                           36.6                             1.5                           35.1
1960/61                           39.4                             1.2                            38.2
1961/62                           42.4                             0.9                           41.5
1962/63                           53.9                             2.1                           51.8
1963/64                           59.5                             3.2                           56.3
1964/65                           65.4                             2.6                           62.8
1965/66                           79.4                             1.3                            78.1
1966/67                           86.4                             2.2                           84.2
1967/68                           78.6                             2.3                            76.3
1968/69                           68.8                             1.9                           66.9
1969/70                           80.8                             1.8                            79.0
1970/71                           77.0                             0.9                            76.1
1971/72 1/                       (77.0)                           (0.9)                          (76.1)
1972/73                           77.9                             1.1                            76.8
1973/74                           83.7                             1.3                           82.4
1974/75                           81.4                             1.8                           80.6
(b) Loans by Input Classification
Tractors      Machinery       Livestock       Seeds      Insecticides       Fertilizers
(Cattle)
1959/60             -               .8            0.6           1.9             -                12.6
1960/61             -               .7            0.6           2.3             -                16.4
1961/62             .5              .7            0.2           2.8            1.6               17.1
1962/63             .1            1.5             0.6           2.7            6.9               20.3
1963/64             -               .7            1.0           2.9            9.0               20.4
1964/65             .3              .8            1.3           3.0            6.0               25.3
1965/66            1.2              .9            1.9           4.6            7.8               34.7
1966/67             .9            1.8             2.3          5.8             9.6               38.0
1967/68             .8            1.9              .9           8.9            7.2               35.9
1968/69             .2            1.6              .9           7.5            6.3               32.0
1969/70             .6            1.5             2.3           7.3            9.2               35.0
1970/71             -               .6            1.8           7.7            9.5               32.6
1971/72             .5              .7            2.2           7.5           12.0               30.8
1972/73             .5              .7            2.3          6.8             5.2               37.7
1973/74                    1                      3.2          6.7             6.8               37.7
1974/75                     3                     1.8          8.0             9.1               35.7
(c) Loans by Crops
Total                                                      Other                    Other
Crop        Cotton                                         Field                   Vegs. &
Loans       Loans        Rice        Wheat      Maize      Crops      Onions       Fruits
1959/60       27.3          9.6         2.7        5.3        5.5         2.6          .2          1.4
1960/61       32.5        11.5          2.0        6.0         7.6        2.8         .6           2.0
1961/62       36.7        11.5          2.0        9.9         7.6        2.8         .7           2.0
1962/63       46.3        19.7          4.6        6.9        7.6         4.9         .3           2.3
1963/64       50.6        23.2          5.5        7.5        5.4         5.8         .1           3.1
1964/65       58.6         25.6         8.3        7.5        7.3         6.4         .2           3.3
1965/66       71.3        34.7          6.7       10.2        9.2         7.5         .4           2.6
1966/67       79.1        42.1          7.2        8.7       10.4         7.9         .4           2.4
1967/68       73.3        35.3          7.8        8.2       10.2         7.8         .8           3.2
1968/69       65.3         30.5         8.0        7.0        8.8         7.3         .9           2.8
1969/70       75.5        38.5          8.8        8.8        8.8         7.6         .7           2.3
1970/71       73.4         38.8         8.8        8.0        8.1         6.9         .7           2.1
1971/72       74.2         35.8         7.3        8.0        6.3         9.4         .6           2.7
1972/73       73.9         32.4         8.9       11.1        8.2         9.5         .6           3.2
1973/74       78.8         37.7         8.2       11.0        7.4         9.6         .6           4.3
1974/75       78.7         34.7         8.5       12.3        7.5        10.8         .7           4.2
1/ According to officials of Egyptian General Organization for Agriculture and Cooperative
Credit, loans in 1971/72 were about the same as in 1970/71.
Source: Egyptian General Organization for Agricultural and Cooperative Credit.
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Fertilizers - Consumption and Supply
('000 tons of nutrients)
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76            1978   1982   1985
-----------Projected--------------------
Consumption
Nitrogen               327        308        356        381        409            456    506    514
Phosphate               66        n.a.       n.a.       123        129            192    211    211
Potash                   1.5      n.a.       n.a.        31         32             60      74     77
Production
Nitrogen               105        103        n.a.       109        217            473    533    533
Phosphate               76         80        n.a.        97        110            110    110    110
Imports
Nitrogen               235        n.a.       n.a.       272        192             -       -      -
Sources: Ministry of Agriculture, IBRD estimates.
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Production, Exports and Imports of Agricultural Commodities
('000 metric tons)
1965      1970       1972      1973       1974       1975
Production
Wheat               1,272     1,516      1,616      1,838     1,884      1,884
Maize               2,141     2,393      2,417      2,507     2,750      2,640
Sorghum               8o6       874        731        853       860        824
Rice (paddy)        1,788     2,604      2,509      2,274     2,501      2,242
Barley                130         83       106         96        95         89
Beans                 344       277        361        273       290        234
Lentils                61         33        54         61         53        51
Onions                670       437        403        435       550       n.a.
Sugarcane           4,747     6,945      7,713      7,349     7,350      7,018
Cotton (unginned)  1,501      1,404      1,422     1,368      1,285      1,204
Vegetables          4,636     5,222      5,472      5,778     5,800      6,005
Citrus Fruit          482       706        825        923       950        963
Dates                 386       294        390        380        375       396
Other Fruit           352        384       522        515       525        612
Exports
Rice                  297        257       266        257      n.a.       n.a.
Onions                159         91       105         89      n.a.       n.a.
Sugar (processed)   n.a.          50        11         42       _         n.a.
Cotton (lint)         330       285        295        285      n.a.       n.a.
Potatoes               44         90        77        108      n.a.       n.a.
Oranges                 3       102         82        246      n.a.       n.a.
Imports
Wheat               1,230        851     1,386      1,490      n.a.       n.a.
Wheat flour           610        275       216        227      n.a.       n.a.
Sugar (processed)   n.a.          45        71         61       103       n.a.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Farm Gate Prices of Agricultural Products 1965, 1970-1974
Crop                   1965       1970        1971        1972       1973        1974
------------------------- LE/ton -------------------------
Wheat                  30.2       39.28       35-35       34.68       38.02       46.93
Barley                 25.73      34.31       41.98       32.48       39.23       51.92
Maize                  25.06      29.98       28.20       34.84       43.41       50-79
Rice                   21.25      28.42       27.46       26.84       28.17       35.13
Beans                  49.79      47.40       57.40       54.63       53.79       86.00
Cotton                 99.60    115.38       115.64      125.97     123.69      150.22
Peanuts                90.77      86.64       87.17       88.37       91.17     119.33
Sugarcane               2.82       2.91        2.89        3.22        4.o6        6.51
Onions, Winter         11.60      14.02       15.53       13.76       18.97      19.24
Onions, other          14.31      13.71       15.61       14.40       17.12       19.84
Vegetables
Winter                 17.36      24.34       22.41       26.15       38.54       n.a.
Summer                 14.60      17.66       18.98       30.90       22.42      n.a.
Nili                   21.10      24.46       25.38       37.24       40.51       n.a.
Fruits
Citrus                 22.99      24.09       24.32       26.22       30.86       32.00
Dates                  25.00      25.00       25.00       28.00       30.00       40.00
Other                  43.25      39.10       48.4o       50.44       52.27      n.a.
Livestock Products
Milk                   50.00      57-70       62.70       65.80       73.00       85.80
Cattle Meat           382.00    487.00       483.00      502.00      550.00     613.00
Poultry Meat          356.00    326.00       389.00      401.00      446.oo      478.00
Eggs                  212.50    262.50       275.00      315.00      345.00      400.00
Source: Agricultural Research Center, Ministry of Agriculture
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Prices of Some Supply Commodities
(LE/metric ton)
July-Dec                               /l          /2
1971/72   1972       1973        1974       1975-       1976L-
Average Import Prices
Wheat                    29.6    28.7       73.0        99.3       100          70
Wheat flour              35.6    33.2       78.3       111.1       120          85
Maize                    25.0    28.8       52.3        70.8        75          65
Vegetable oil          173.6   141.1       193.5       347.8       400         340
Lentils                  82.7    90.1      261.1       227.2       225         245
Sesame                 132.2   156.5         -         235.0       280         280
Sugar                     -       -        127.0       286.o       300         240
Domestic Buying Prices
Wheat                    33.3    33.3       33.3        43.3       46.7        53.3
Maize                     -       -         45.0         -          5. 5
Rice (paddy)            27.0    27.0        27.0        32.0       40.0        40.0
Sesame                  87.5    93.0       100.0       158.0      175.0       183.3
Horse Beans              51.6    51.6       51.6        58.0       83.8        83.9
Sugar /3                23.4    26.2        31.8         -         45.5         -
Selling Prices
Wheat                    29.5    29.5       29.5        30.9       28.2        29.2
Wheat flour              51.9    51.9       51.9        55.0       55.0        67.8
Maize                    30.0    33.0       33.0        33.0       33.0        33.0
Rice (bleached)          51.0    51.0       51.0        51.0       51.0        51.0
Vegetable oil (ration)  49.7    49.7        49.7        49.7       49.7        49.7
Lentils                  79.0    98.0       98.0        98.0       98.0        98.0
Horse Beans               -       -         51.6        51.6       51.6        51.6
Sesame                 110.0   110.0       110.0       110.0      110.0       210.0
Sugar (ration)L4        70.0    70.0        70.0        96.6       70.0       100.0
Sugar (additional)     150.0   150.0       150.0       250.0      245.0       245.0
/1  Import prices are based on budget assumptions and actual contracts entered into
during January-March, 1974; domestic buying and selling prices are as of April,
1974.
/2  Budget assumptions.
/3 Cane price divided by average sugar extraction ratio (0.11) to improve comparability
with selling price; the latter, however, includes processing and distribution costs.
/4  Ration amount is 0.75 kg. per person per month.
Source: General Authority for Supply Commodities.
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Farm Models
1.        In the project area, about 34% of the holdings are farmed by the
owner, 28% are partly owned and partly rented, and 38% are farmed by tenants.
Average sizes of farms in the three categories are respectively 3.1 feddans,
5.4 feddans and 1.7 feddans. Although the overall average farm size is 3.4
feddans, about 75% of the holdings are less than 3 feddans, occupying only 25%
of the cultivated area and averaging 1 feddan in size. An additional 20% of
the holders farm between 3 and 5 feddans, covering about 30% of the land area.
Five farm models have been developed to reflect the land distribution and the
cropping situation in the project area. Three models depict the budget
estimates for farms growing cotton, mainly in areas of the Governorates of
Beni Suef, El Minya and Asyut. These three models are a 3.1 feddan, owner-
operated farm, a 1.7 feddan, tenant-operated farm and a small tenant holding
of 1.0 feddan to illustrate the situation for the majority of small operators
(Table 2). Two models are used to indicate situations on sugar cane farms in
the Governorates of Qena and Aswan, again a 3.1 feddan, owner-operated unit
and a tenant farm of 1.7 feddans (Table 3).
2.        Assumptions used in these farm models with respect to areas under
various crops and the yields achieved with and without the project are set
out in Table 1. The cotton farms have an overall crop intensity of 185%
and the cane farms about 156%. Further assumptions underlying the budget
estimates are as follows:
(a) Prices for outputs and inputs are outlined in Annex 13,
Table 1, in the column headed "Prices for Financial Analysis".
They are based on average farmgate prices currently expe-
rienced in the area, or on officially announced prices for
certain of the crops.
(b) There would be sufficient labor available in most farm
families to meet labor requirements in all of the models. In
the cost estimates, all labor has been valued at a wage rate
of LE 0.45 per day, and the value of labor has been added
back into the net returns figures, on the assumption that
most of it is, in fact, unpaid family labor.
(c) All crop output has been valued at the farmgate prices men-
tioned above. However, a certain proportion of output would
not be marketed but would be consumed directly by the farm
family. In computing net cash returns, it has been assumed
that the following amounts would be retained, and their value
(LE 44) has been deducted from the total:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Per Family
Item                         Kg.         Value (LE)
Wheat                            100            4.60
Maize/Sorghum                    600           28.20
Beans                             55            4.68
Vegetables and Fruits             -             6.19
Total                             43.67
(d) The land tax is assumed to be LE 4.00 per feddan at present on
cotton farms and LE 3.50 per feddan on sugar cane farms. On
tenant-operated farms, rent is taken to be a multiple of seven
of the land tax. With the project, the rent is increased by the
amount of the incremental land tax, since the tenancy law allows
an owner to pass on any increased land tax as a rent increase.
Other taxes are assumed to be initially 100% of the land tax,
and owners cannot pass these on to tenants. Tile drainage
charges are LE 6.33/feddan, which is the annual payment needed
to recover investment in tile drains (plus a 10% administration
charge)over a period of 20 years without interest.
3.        It is estimated that with the project, the net cash incomes of
farmers illustrated by the five models would rise as follows: for 3.1 feddan,
owner-operated cotton farms by LE 94 (US$241) or 37%; for 1.7 feddan, tenant-
operated cotton farms by LE 49 (US$125) or 54%; for 1.0 feddan, tenant-
operated cotton farms by LE 30 (US$77) or 88%; for 3.1 feddan, owner-operated
sugar cane farms by LE 76 (US$195) or 32%; and for 1.7 feddan, tenant-operated
cane farms by LE 40 (US$102) or 48%. Without the project, all farmers would
experience significant declines in cash income, as production decreased,
because of drainage problems.



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Farm Models - Basic Assumptions
Crop Areas (feddans)                           Crop Yields (m.t.Ifed.)
Cotton Farms                 Suga-r Cane?. Farrs
With
3.1 fed.   1.7 fed.   1.0 fed.       3.1 fed.   1.7 fed.       Present    Project (10 years)
-heat                                0.62        0.34        0.20          0.93        0.51         0.950       1.285  + 35% (1.3)
Maize                                1.55        0.85        0.50           -           -           1.450       1.800  + 25% (1.5)
Sorghum                               -           -           -            1.49        0.82         1.450       1.800  + 25% (1.7)
Beans                                0.62        0.34        0.20          0.62        0.34         0.850       1.150  + 35% (1.5)
Cotton                               1.02        0.56        0.33           -           -           0.700       0.875  + 25% (0.93)
Sugar Cane                            -           -           -            0.78        0.43        34.000      39.000  + 15% (36.6)
Onions                                -           -           -            0.16        O.C9         6.900       9.300  + 35% (9.3)
Vegetables                           0.43        0.24        0.14          0.23        0.13         6.600       8.250  + 25% (6.6)
Berseem (perennial)                  0.47        0.26        0.15          0.62        0.34
Berseem (catch crop) -               1.02        0.56        0.33           -           _
Total area of crops (fed.)       5.73        3.15        1.85          4.83        2.6f
Cropping intensity (%)/2          185        185         185           156         156
/1  Grown for several months preceding cotton
/2  Area sown to crops - area of farm
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Budgets for Cotton Farms (Beni Suef. El Minya. Asyut)
Owner-Cultivated  3.1 Feddan                          Tenant 1.7 Feddn                                     Tenant 1.0 yeddgn
Year 10                                   Year  0                                              Year 10
With         Without                                With         Without                                 With         Without
Present        Prolect        Project               Present        Project       Project                 Present        Project       Project
-LE----------------------------------------------------------------- LE---________
Gross Value of Production
Wheat                             27             37            24                      15            20            13                       9              12            8
Maize                            112            140           102                      62            77           56                       36              45           33
Beans                             45             61            40                     25            33            22                       14              20          13
Cotton                           116            146           102                     64            80            58                       38              47          34
Vegetables                       159            199           144                     89           111            80                       52              65          47
TOTAL                         459             583           412                    255           321           229                      149            189          135
Costs of Production
Cultivation                       27             27            27                      15           15            15                        9               9            9
Seeds                             28             28            28                      15           15            15                        9               9            9
Fertilizers                       39             39            39                      22            22            22                      13              13           13
Chemicals                         14             14            14                       7             7             7                       4               4            4
Labor /1                         102            116            98                      56           64            54                       33              37           32
Other Costs                       26             33            23                      14            18           13                        8              11            7
TOTAL                          236            257           229                    129           141           126                       76             83           74
Charges
Land Tax or Rent /2               12             15            11                     47            49            42                       28              29          25
Other taxes                       12             12            11                      -             -             -                       -               -            -
Tile drainage charges              -             20             -                      -             11            -                        -               6           -
TOTAL                           2L             47            22                     47            60            42                       28             35           25
Net Returns /3
Before deducting  charges        325            442           281                     182           244           157                     106              143          93
After deducting charges          301            395           259                     135           184           115                       78             108          68
Value of Subsistence Crops        44             44            44                      44            44            44                      44               44          44
Net Cash Income                  257            351           215                      91           140            71                       34              64          24
/1   Family labor valued at going wage rate.
/2   Land tax for owner - aultivated farm, rent for tenants.
/3   Including value of family labor.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Budgets for Sugar Cane Farms (Qena. Aswan )
Owner-Cultivated 3.1 Fedden                                            Tenant 1.7 Feddan
Year 10                                                        Year 10
With        Without                                               With          Without
Present       Project        Project                               Present        Pro1ect        Proiect
-----------------------------------------------LE-------------------------------------------------
Gross Vplue of Production
Wheat                              41            55             37                                    22            30             20
Sorghum                            95          118              86                                    52            65             47
Beans                              45            61             40                                    25            33             22
Sugar Cane                        159          183             144                                    88           101             79
Onions                             24            33              22                                   14            18             12
Vegetables                         85           106              77                                   48            60             43
TOTAL                         449           556             406                                   249           307            223
Costs of Production
Cultivation                        23            23              23                                   12            12             12
Seeds                              44           44              44                                    24            24             24
Fertilizers                        42            42              42                                   23            23             23
Chemicals                           4             4               4                                    2             2               2
Labor Aj                          122           137             116                                   67            75              64
Other Costs                        33            41              30                                   18            23              16
TOTAL                          268          291             259                                   146           159            141
Charges
Land Tax or Rent /2                11            14              10                                   42            44              38
Other taxis                        11            11              10                                     _             _              _
Tile drainage charges               -            20               -                                     -           11               -
TOTAL                          22            45              20                                    42            55             38
Net Returns /3
Before deducting charges          303           402             263                                  170           223             146
After deducting charges           281           357             243                                  128            168            108
Value of subsistence crops         44            44              44                                   44             44             44
Net Cash Income                   237           313             199                                    84           124             64
1  Family labor valued at  going wage rate
2  Land tax for owner-cultivated farm, rent for tenant
Including value of fanily labor.
Mfay 1976                                                                                                                               IL
CD



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        Economic rates of return were calculated on the basis of data dis-
played in Table 1. The following assumptions underlie these calculations and
data:
(a) the shadow rate of exchange is LE 1.00 = US$1.70, and the
sensitivity of results is tested with the official exchange
rate of LE 1.00 = US$2.56;
(b) project costs include physical contingency allowances as outlined
in Annex 6, Tables 2, 3 and 4;
(c) prices for economic analysis (Table 2) are based on IBRD projec-
tions for international markets, adjusted to a farmgate level by
taking account of transport and handling costs, and costs at
LE 22/ton of lint for cotton ginning (including transport and
storage), LE 5.50/ton of sugar for sugar processing, and LE
3.50/ton for bags for onions. A conservative yield of sugar
from cane of 10% is assumed (the average in Egypt is around
11%), 3% is added to sugar values for the molasses by-product,
and one ton of unginned cotton is assumed to yield 355.56 kg
lint, 634.92 kg seed (valued at LE 51) and 9.52 kg scarto
(valued at LE 4);
(d) labor is valued at a rate of LE 0.45/day, the current average
remuneration, since under the multiple cropping pattern in the
project area labor demand peaks are spread through the year;
(e) crop yields would rise over present levels by from 15% to 35%
with the project (Annex 4) and without the project would decline
by about 30% over a period of 35 years;
(f) no benefits have been assumed from cultivation of berseem or
from fruits, because of lack of data, although the investment
in drainage would increase somewhat the production of these crops;
(g) drainage pumps are assumed to be replaced in years 12 and 24
(Annex 7) and equipment salvage value totalling US$5.1 million
is credited to the project in years 5 and 6; and



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(h) on-farm costs for cultivation, seeds, fertilizers and chemicals
are assumed to be the same with and without the project (with
the exception of the 12,000 feddans of reclaimed land), but there
are changes in inputs directly related to yields, such as harvest
labor and transportation charges.
2.        The economic rate of return for the project as a whole (excluding
the bilharzia component) is estimated to be 29%. Two sets of sensitivity
calculations were performed. First, benefits and costs were respectively re-
duced and increased by 20%, to simulate changes in basic project parameters
such as unit costs, prices and yields. Second, all elements of the project
involving foreign exchange were revalued in Egyptian pounds using the official
exchange rate of LE 1.00 = US$2.56. For this sensitivity test all prices of
goods which would be exports or import substitutes were revalued at the
alternate exchange rate (Table 2) and investment costs which would involve
foreign currency transactions were treated similarly. Results of these
sensitivity analyses are as follows:
Exchange Rates
LE 1.00 = US$1.70    LE 1.00 = US$2.56
Basic rate of return                        29%                   27%
Benefits decreased 20%                      24%                   22%
Investment costs increased 20%              25%                   24%
On-farm costs increased 20%                 29%                   26%
Benefits decreased 20% and all
costs increased 20%                    20%                   19%
3.        During the construction period of the project (1977-1981 inclusive)
it is estimated that about 7 million mandays of employment would be generated
for unskilled workers, particularly in the laying of pipes and in construction
of main and branch drains. An estimated 2.4 million mandays of employment
for skilled workers would be generated in project works. For continuing
operation and maintenance, about 253,000 mandays of unskilled labor and 31,000
mandays of skilled labor would be required each year. On farms it is estimated
that an additional 1 million mandays per annum would be required for the 12,000
feddans of land which are brought into new production, and about 5 million
mandays per annum additionally in other areas, mainly at harvest periods as a
result of crop yield increases.



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Economic Cost and Benefit Flows ( LE Million )
Proiect Incremental Costs                           Project  Benefits
Project      Calendar                                                                      With         Without
Year          Year             Investment       0 *nd M     On-Farms        Total        Project       ProJect      Incremental
1           1977                30.5            -           0.1           30.6          151.8         150.2          1.6
2           1978                34.9            -            0.2           35.1         151.9         148.7          3.2
3           1979                24.8            -           0.6            25.4         153.4         147.2           6.2
4           1980                12.2             -          1.3            13.5         159.4         145.7         13.7
5           1981                11.            1.1          2.6           15.1          171.1/2       144.2         26.9
6           1982                  -             i           4.0             5.1         183.9LZ       142.8         41.1
7           1983                  -             "           5.1             6.2         190.1         141.3         48.8
3           1984                  _             It          5.7             6.8         194.2         139.9         54.3
9           1985                  -             "           5.8             6.9           ..          138.5          55.7
10           1986                                I it        5 9            7.0                        137.0         57.2
11           1987                  -                         6.o             7.1           TV          135.7         58.5
12           1988                  -             "/i         6.1            7.2            it          134.3          59.9
13           1989                  -             i           6.3            7.4            "           132.9         61.3
14           1990                                ..          6.4            7.5                        131.6         62.6
'15         l1991                  -             t'          6.5            7.6            "           130.2         64.o
16           1992                                I           6.6            7.7                        128.9         65.3
17           1993                  -                         6.7            7.8                        127.6         66.6
18           1994                  _                         6.8             7.9                       126.3         67.9
19           1995                  -             "           6.9            8.0                        125.0         69.2
20           1996                  -                         7.0             8.1           "           123.8         70.4
21           1997                  _                         7.1             8.2                       122.5         71.7
22           1998                                            7.2            8.3                        121.3         72.9
23           1999                                "           7.3             8.4           "           120.0         74.2
24           2000                  _             "/1         7.4            8.5                        118.8         75.4
25           2001                  _                         7.5            8.6                        117.6         76.6
26           2802                                 "          7.6            8.7            "116.4                    77.8
27           2003                               ""           7.7            8.8                        115.2         79.0
28           2004                  -                         7.8            8.9                        114.1         80.1
29           2005                  -                         7.9            9.0            "           112.9          81.3
30           2006                  -                         8.o            9.1                        111.8         82.4
31           2007                  -                         8.1            9.2            "1o.6                     83.6
32           2008                   -                        8.2            9.3                        109.5         84.7
33           2009                  -                         8.3            9.4                        108.4          85.8
34           2010                  _                         8.4            9.5                        107.3          86.9
35           2011                  -              "          8.4            9.5                        107.3          86.9
I   Including replacement of pumps.                                
Including salvage value of equipment
May, 1976



ANNEX 11
Tabie Z
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
EGYPT
Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs
Price for Financial    Prices for Economic Analysis
Analysis           /1          /2          /3
Item                Unit         LE.        US$        LE          LE          g
Outputs
Wheat              metric ton      46         118         66        100         170
Maize                  "           50         128         48         73         124
Sorghum                "           44         113        44          66         113
Lentils                "          130         333       225         338         576
Beans                  "           85         218       145         217         370
Onions                 "           22          56         53         82         138
Cotton (unginned)                 163         417       273         405         695
Sugarcane                           6          15      12.5          19          32
Vegetables T"                      56         143         56         89         147
Fruit /5                           42         108         42         68         112
Inputs
Nitrogen fert.(15.5%N)             21          54         35         46          84
Phosphate "' (15% P205)            16          41         36         47          86
Seeds - Wheat          kg        0.05        0.13      0.05        0.05        0.13
Maize                    0.06        0.15      0.06        o.o6        0.15
Sorghum                 0.05         0.13      0.05        0.05        0.13
Lentils                 0.15         0.38      0.15        0.15        0.38
Beans                   0.10         0.26      0.10        0.10        0.26
Onions         "        2.00         5.12      2.00        2.00        5.12
Cotton                  0.02         0.05      0.02        0.02        0.05
Sugarcane  metric ton   6.oo        15.36      6.oo        6.oo       15.36
Berseem        kg       0.24         0.61      0.24        0.24        0.61
Farm labor           Manday      o.45        1.15       0.45       0.45        1.15
/1  International prices converted at exchange rate LE 1 = US$2.56
/2  International prices converted at exchange rate LE 1 = US$1.70
/3  Using the two exchange rates does not always yield the same figure in US$,
because the economic prices in LE incorporate varying amounts of local costs,
for transportation, processing, etc.
/4 A weighted average for tomato and other vegetables
/5 A weighted average for citrus, grapes, dates and other fruits.
March 26, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Bilharzia Control I/
General
1.        Bilharzia or schistosomiasis, as it is also called, is the most
important endemic disease in Egypt. It has existed since the time of the
Pharaohs and continues to affect an extremely large portion of the population.
2.        The disease is caused by parasitic worms known as schistosomes
which pass part of their life cycle in host snails. The transmission is
through eggs of human excreta from infected individuals that are excreted
in bodies of waters where snails dwell. These eggs develop into free swim-
ming Miracidium which penetrate the appropriate snail.  Within the host
snail, free swimming Cercariae are produced. It is this organism which
penetrates the skin of victims who happen to be in contract with water where
the Cercariae are found. The Cercariae develop into schistosome worms which
live in the blood vessels of humans.
3.        Two types of schistosomiasis are present in Egypt:  S. haematobium,
the vector snail being Bulinus truncatus; and S. mansoni, the vector snail
being Biomphalaria alexandrina. The snail S. haematobium is prevalent through-
out Egypt but S. mansoni is confined to the Delta and in the neighboring Giza
Governorate of Upper Egypt.
Prevalency
4.        S. haematobium is a serious delibitating disease involving the
urinary system causing lesions of the bladder, ureters and other organs.
Fever, general distress and listlessness are common symptoms. Those in-
fected with bilharzia become more readily susceptible to other afflictions
of the bladder and viral hepatitis. The disease also causes liver fluke
in domestic animals. School children and farm workers are highly susceptible
because of their more frequent contact with water. The prevalence rate is
usually higher among males than females. The highest prevalence rates re-
ported are 53.5% in the age group 5-14 years and 48.5% in the cumulative
age group 15-29 years.
1/   Major Source:  Ecological and Habitat Control of Schistosomiasis,
Int. Conf. on Schistosomiasis, Country Profile - Egypt, Cairo,
October 25, 1975.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        The type of irrigation (basin vs. perennial) has an important
bearing on the rate of infection. Data from the Ministry of Health shows
that for Asyut, Sohag and Qena Governorates, the overall prevalence rate
for areas with perennial irrigation was 63.9%, (Asyut 68.1%, Sohag 61.9%,
and Qena 62%), whereas it was only 16.2% (Asyut 18.5%, Sohag 10.4%, and
Qena 13%) in the basin irrigated areas. Since the commissioning of the
high dam has led to a shift from basin to perennial irrigation these data
have significant implications. The prevalence rate of bilharzia is ex-
pected to increase rather dramatically if effective control measures are
not adopted soon.
Control
6.        The most effective control measure thus far is the elimination
of the vector snail by the use of molluscicides. Experiments in El Fayoum
have shown that effective control of schistosomiases is possible using
molluscicides. Starting in 1969, using Bayluscide for spring, summer and
autumn application yearly in the Bahr Youssef canal, the overall prevalence
rate of schistosomiasis dropped from 45.7% in 1968 to 23.3% in 1971, and by
1974, it was down to 9.1%. Examination of 6,300 children 0-2 years of age
in 1971 showed none of them to be positive for bilharzia. Out of 7,600
children aged 2-5 years, the prevalence rate was only 2-6% and all of the
positive cases were children 4-5 years who were born before the project was
initiated. Likewise, fecal examinations at the Fayoum University Abattoirs
have shown a continuous reduction in the incidence of liver fluke in domestic
animals.
Environmental Effect
7.        Although the molluscicide (Bayluscide) may kill some fish in the
water when first applied, the effect is temporary and the fish population
should restore itself. Fortunately, the fish can be eaten by humans without
narmful effects. Bayluscide is biodegradable, and when Bayluscide is compared
with other molluscicides such as copper sulfate and sodium pentachlorophenate,
it creates a minimum alteration to the ecological balance (microflora and
microfauna) of a fresh water habitat. Moreover, experiments indicate that
Bayluscide has no perceptible effects on fruits and foliage of rapidly growing
citrus trees.
Upper Egypt Drainage I
8.        In Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, a program covering 900,000 feddans
and about 3 million people in Asyut, El Minya, and Beni Suef Governorates has
been established following the principles conducted in the Fayoum experiment.
This consists of an integrated snail control program coupled with chemotherapy
for infected persons. Having completed Phase I of the program, the full scale
project will commence in late March, 1976.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Based on a cost effectiveness study, Bayluscide alone was found to be
superior to Frescon alone, and Bayluscide in combination with Frescon. Thus,
Bayluscide will be the molluscicide used three times annually (spring, summer
and autumn) in the project area. Bayluscide will be applied in the Ibrahimia
and Bahr Youssef irrigation canals and drains below the head regulator at
Dairut. Mass chemotheraphy of the infected population using metrifonate will
also be conducted. The chemotheraphy treatments will be carried out in rural
health centers, school health depots and in hospitals dealing with endemic
diseases.
9.        Due mainly to the sharp increase in the cost of molluscicide,
there has been a cost overrun in both the local and foreign exchange compo-
nents of the Bilharzia Control Program of Upper Egypt Drainage I. This
cost overrun amounts to US$2.97 million local funds and US$4.22 million
foreign currency (Table 1).
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project
10.       Since the area upstream from Asyut Barrage to Dairut Barrage is
an integral part of the region where the above Bilharzia project is presently
confined, and was not included in the original project, this vital and essen-
tial control point would be added to Upper Egypt Drainage II Project. The
area encompasses 120,000 feddans and its treatment would prevent reinfestation
of the treated areas downstream in Upper Egypt Drainage I Project (Map IBRD
12115). The estimated cost for treating the 120,000 feddans is US$0.16
million local funds and US$0.88 foreign exchange (Table 2).
11.       The cost overrun of US$4.22 million foreign exchange and US$2.97
million local funds for Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, plus the foreign ex-
change cost of US$0.88 million and local funds of US$0.16 million will be
included in the budget for Upper Egypt Drainage II Project (Annex 6, Table 4).



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Bilharzia Control Program Under Upper Egypt Drainage I Project - Revised Cost Estimate
Appraisal Estimate                          Revised Estimate
Item                        Local      Foreign        Total            Local        Foreign       Total
-    -US$Million- - - - - -               - - - - - -US$Million- - - - - -
Equipment and vehicles                 -          0.30          0.30              -           0.35           0.35
Molluscicides                        0.88         4.32           5.20             1.70        8.50          10.20
Drugs (chemotheravv)                 0.02         0.12           0.14             0.05        0.26           0.31
Consultants                          0.06         0.54          0.60             0.01         0.05           0.06
Administration - Buildings           0.42          -             0.42             1.80         -              1.80
Sub-Total                      1.38         5.28          6.66             3.56         9.16          12.72
Contingencies:  Physical             0.14         0.53           0.67             0.36        0.92           1.28
Price               0.15         0.66           0.81             0.72         0.6i           1.33
T o t a 1                      1.67         6.47          8.14             4.64        10.69 1/       15.33
1/ of which US$4.22 million represents the value of 325 tons of Bayluscide.
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Bilharzia Control Program Under Upper Egypt Drainage II Project - Cost Estimate
Local        Foreign          Total
Item                            - - - - - - -US$Million- - - - - -
Equipment and vehicles                      -             0.07           0.07
Molluscicides (60 tons)                   0.13            0.66           0.79
Sub-Total                         0.13            0.73            0.86
Contingencies:  Physical                  0.01            0.07           0.08
Price                    0.02            0.08           0.10
T o t a l                          0.16            0.88 1/        1.04
1/  of which US$0.78 million represents the value of 60 tons of Bayluscide.
March 26, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE 11 PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR   _
ACTI V I               TY ~                          __ 1976  1977        1978                1979                1980               1981
1. PLANNING - DESIGN
Main drains
Pumping station                                             ......
Tile drainage
2. PROCUREMENT
Equip. for main drains
Equip. for pumping station
Equip. for PVC pipes                          I 
Raw material for PVC pipes               ....                      _ _ _,
Equip. for tile drainage                  ..........
Vehicles, workshops, etc.                                                                  -
Equip. for land reclamation
3. CONSTRUCTION
Main drains
Pumping station
Tile drainage
Land reclamation
4. CONSULTANTS
5. TRAINING                                                                                                                       _
........ Specifications and Tenders                                                                                World Bank-15753






APPRAISAL OF
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE 11 PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR THE EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
1Board of Dlirectors
|Chaiman
|  Insfeecciun Ofa     |           Petlitics & Public    || Consultant's Offiee                              Security Off ic,                 Tenfininul Office 
|  Vice-Chairman Lower Egypt  |                                                                                                                                                    p   Vice-Chairman Upper Egypt U
  S   Oesign Off.c.  l                                               |         Design Office
D Oep Jty          [          L l                                                                                         |        DG Mechanicdl                                       Deputy
DG E-ecution                                 DOG Finance & Adni.      |                    OG Planning & Ecaluation                             DOG Etection
C DGWes Deltau_                                             iac               |Pang|                                                                     DG As-,              |
4 DG South Mid Delta               l                 4 Administration           l                 l Research & E-lui                                  G DGen
DG h DcF   Up & Sttistin     -                      DG Sohag
+   DG East DeltaX  Training      F |        DG Asyot
DG Minya
DG Bei Suef 
World eenB-t157M






BRD-12107
ARAB  REPUBL C OF EGYPT
.     X  5 1 >. fW                    Upper Egypt Drainage Project II
Bes Suef GrrtreoerM  GENERAL LOCATION
Areas -pered b, Uppar Egypt Drainage I, DA Project
Areas e0e-ed by Upper Egypt Drap-ge It, lDA-ne Bek Per,ee
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cr.|,aCltireteo aoses
N l
t,    of detailed  ay
Ass ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~.  Gt G.tr.......e i                   -
IsXE                  ___     _.              __ A G
I
Qere, Qoesrmrota tori;L t
ifs,   Qat1eS,
Mot                 -rot   -i
12 d et   es dxuir  _es
casT  rRE   e, b






IBRD 12108
^   , NTo innsn                                                                          MAY 1976
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
El Se:eide Kebli.     
El Ioolac Kebli                           Upper Egypt Drainage  Project I
ASWAN GOVERNORATE
Areas provided with tile drainage with
government's own resources
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I,
IDA Project
Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt DrainageI, IDA Project
Main irrigation canal
v uyl---Other irrigation canals
-s--i-Railways
<    Towns
0            5             10            75
I DF U A R E A  mi        %                                            KILOMEERnS
8,000 FEDDANS        vt       ,,i                                                5      
MIL
KOM OMBO WEST AREA
, .Ai         ,        qs         }/40,000 FEDDANS
The boundaries shown -n stis map d,nor
impio endorsement or a.eptance bh the
Worid ashand it affliates            Y7 Vb
OM,,y,,,p0,,iS           ,_ ''1Kmmb 
<I i    ARAB  REP4BLIC                                     |
A   ~  ~    ~   '            N~~
OF
EGYPT A.
|-i                   Awon         |',    '
r r
S       U   D/A   N






IBRD 12109
ARMENT AREA
10,000 FEDDANS
=             3XF    ~~~~Upper Egypt Drainage Project II
QENA GOVERNORATE (CENTRAL)
'A    l     oYOAreas provided with tile drainage with governmeit's
Area covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I,
\                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~IDA Project
\                                 - ~~~~~~~~~~Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage H,
\  \                                ~~~~~~~~~~IDA and Bank Project
\\ \\&                            | ~~~~~~~~Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
e b e h   o                                     - New open drains to be constructed under
><5,\ 9\\g                           ~~~~~~~Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
s  e t or o   bExisting open drains to be remodeled under
Wod  kdUpper Egypt DrainageIL, IDA and Bank Project
4Ed s Set\  1New open drains to be constructed under
i\<,J0\\                      ~~~~~~Upper Egypt Drainage II, IDA and Bcnk Project
| .  \ms   Az                   ~~~~~~Main irrigation canals
ts X k    '%   \       --O~~~~~ther irrigation canals
^}1 !  . \)\\\           N  S  | ~Railways
K ome R A RIeA T
10,000 FEDDA NS                 
Th, b-Xd n- rhown on thk -ap d, -tr                                   01        ip tp                3   0 30 4 0  460   70    d
rmply ttd--rmet or aeprn- by rh~                                                               MILES fSz       A 
WorldB.nk.ndirl-ffifit-     e        ll      v            k|                                    IE
| rr i           Q~~en\, 
i         U DA  N                                                                              4






IBRD 12110
MAY 1976
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
fftiBaIyono                                          Upper Egypt Drainage Project 11
t   11 E Ballyans8o,
QENA GOVERNORATE (NORTH)
OPUMPINHAMAAREA PUMPN
\                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 8, 0 00 F E DDANI\,\
'ABU HOMAR                              PUMPING STATION S 
/   7  EL MA5ASHOA          / 9 00 FHE 'ANS
Nag Hammad
Area provided with tile drainage with governments
Own resources
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage II, IDA and Bank Project
The bolm,danes dlowm  on rhil 'nap do not                                                                                                   
imply ends.-ene o , -ttop bv yr                                                                          *     Pumping stations constructed by the government
Wm Ild- b',n 1h t       ,idt
, Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
ISRAEL
.---.--~ ;New open drains to be constructed under
J          - *     -       \ )                                   J                                               Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project                  HEGAZA AREA          / Pr  /e >t
19,000 FEDDANS  ~~
*     ARA B                  I I|                                                                              . Existing open drains to be remodeled under
REPUBLIC                                                                                                      Upper Egypt Drainage II, IDAand Bank Project
OF EGYPT   .                                                                                                  New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage II, IDA and Bank Project
0-               Qenai       N                                                                           *,,s,  ,.N  Main irrigation canals
_Nrv                     j0 5               \         O 1 5         20         25                 Other irrigation canals
iKILOMETERS                                I-I-   I R--i-l-wRailway
0                 5                  10                  1 5                Towns
j   S  U  0  A  N                                                                                                                                                               /     < ?         






IBRD 12111
MAY 1976
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Upper Egypt Drainage Project II
To7\ AsyoSOHAG GOVERNORATE
Area provided with tile drainage with
\t  W     governments own resources
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I,
=IDA Project
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I[,
EL BADARY                                             IDA and Bank Project
AbuTi                   \       29,000 FEDDANS                                         Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt DrainageI, IDA Project
------ New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt DrainageI, IDA and Bank Project
------ New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt DrainageIT, IDA and Bank Project
Main irrigation canals
-  \   o \%gOther irrigation canals
\ <   Ak Xc}                                       | | * ~~~~~~~~~~~~Railway
The boundaries shown ontismapdonotTowns
WESfTerTAHTA AREA         .1-..HGAE
6,00C FEDDANS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2,00FEDN
'1~w '
ARAB   REPUBLIC ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     AKMI  AE
OF   Sohog        ohin                                                3OO FDDN
J  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SH
Th, &-uderies show-o this mp do not                                          
imply end-rsmet ..or. ecptenc by the                                                                        \
World Benk end its qfflifi&                                                             o l                  &
ARAB  RES U    D ICNNo||MILES
__            ~~~~0       5          10                  iS2  5              lSe,hM






IBRD 12112
MAY 1976
Med,per-rsyzov  Seal     1                                             ;1
ISRAEL;.                                          .' i
EL BADRAMAN
V                                               PUJr  -t<P M MPING STATION
AsyutAsu                                                   7
ARAB REPUBLC 
OF  EGY(PT  ~                                       elga o      
NLake,  <E1                               Dt0    1   .),                                                             .
NNasser  J                                                                                   AL
,_ _ _ _;, ._ jV ol / 0 . /x~~~~~Bl GjAB4. AREA . 
s  u  DA  N                                                            18,000 FEDCANS
The bondanes shown on thi,s map do no-
i.nply edo-rsemen or ace-ptanee by the                             t>
Wotld Bnkh and  at m affsIites.                    \  
Cl'~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~                       DA~~~~~~IRUT
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                     tElM\hmodi
Upper Egypt Drainage Project II ,                                                      l
ASYUT GOVERNORATE
Area provided with tile drainage with government's
own resources
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project \                                                          i
Area covered by Upper Egypt DrainageIE, IDA and
Bank Project
Pumping station constructed by the government
Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
Existing open drains to be remodeled under            r t       ,
Upper Egypt Drainage H, IDA and Bank Project
New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage I[, IDA and Bank Project
Main irrigation canals
Other irrigation canals
-I      Railway
Towns
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 2 4 6 8 10
KILOMETERS
0             2              4             6           |                            \
MILES                                                              \






BENI SALEH 
r   PUMPING S-ATION                       ARAB  REPUBLIC OF. EGYPT
SAKOLA          TTIO            El  hn                 Upper  Egypt Drainage  Project TT
ElPosos l eEL MINYA GOVERNORATE
J e                                    w proved with tidr e with
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I,
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I[,
|              PING STATION                 IDA and Bank Project
*  Pumping stations constructed by the government
*     Pumping stations under Upper Egypt Drainage 1,
|  _   ;llgljt      sMogh.ght             IDA Project
*     Pumping station under Upper Egypt Drainoge II,
IDA and Bank Project
Existing open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
~ S              P]  0 50  EDDANS        uExsting open drains to be remodeled under
Upper Egypt Drainage Tr, IDA and Bank Project
PEIR EN STANKON I                           Beni Moz-r                          New open drains to be constructed under
Upper Egypt Drainage IE,IDA and Bank Project
BENI MAZAR PUMPING     StAP,                                                           Bohr Yousef irrigation canal
4  +7   ;-j 2{/ I 1  \                              Existing drains and canals
Railway
Towns
uENI / MAZAR APEA
27,000 PEDDANS
        5        1       1        20       25
KILOMETERS
o              500
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
SoUTH MENSIAT EL DAHAB        I t       PUMPING STATION
PUMPING STATION
SOUTH VNENSHA              tr             
EL DAH AB AREA                                                                                     I
29,600 FEDDANS ~       t 15   
a <                       INIYA
= .KABKA       I 
TONA PUMPING STATIf.4   PUMPING STA%TION
KABKArB AREA
~~~I ~~~38, 000 PEDDANS
ISRAEL 7
A~
El M;nam,.E]                                       ~fT  
iMro                       I L                              '   -          CA11
ARAB  REPUBLIC
OF  EGYPT                                                             /
-!    otcne                                                              
j   S  u  D  A  N                                               , Dairu.
rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r






IBRD -12114
/ MAY 1976
HO'AN 
J(2qr0 cEDLANS
TaA R-       'EW    A/1.A
nAGS FEDDANS                  A-;HAr AAEA
000   DDF ABEA--EA
ZIAURE AR EA-
455- FED DANS            J
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?A :    R                                                                       s-',
booo FEDDANS             s .EEANSt  CAPEAk   APL tns / 
ARAB REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT                                     MAZORA PUMPING 5OAPN
Upper Egypt Drainage Project II
BENI SUEF GOVERNORATE                                                        E        IM.HAKAMA--ifEN B KVAET AE
Areas provided with tile drainage with government's
ow   eSOurces
Areas covered by Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project
Area covered op Upper Egypt Draiinage II, IDA and Bank PrajeCt
*     Pumping stalions corstructed by the government
*      Pumping stations under Upper Egypt Drainage I, IDA Project   .               ,       ,-e/4   x                        /
Existing open drains to be remodeled under Upper Egypt .
Drainage I, IDA Project                                                       ,          
 ____ New open drains to be constructed under Upper Egypt
Drainage 1, IDA and Bank Project
Existing open drains to be remodeled under Ut  p-|
Egypt Drairage 9, I DA ard Bank Project
__        Bahr Yousef irrigation canal
Existing drains ard canals                          /            tn.
Railways                          E'INASIA AREAA
30000 FEDDANiS
ZZ~   Towns
Pallways   ouCo FEDD>r 5                     /                                                    ~~~~~~~              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    2   4  19  IF   14  1c
SAKOLA PUMPING    *tNN
Thdd B,.,k,Ae -d 11-fl..






IBRD 12280
MAY 1976
RAHAWY NORTH AREA- 
10,000 FEDDANS      ~      -" 
%      ~           ~~ \<t'    0    '                                  /
RAHAWY SOUTH AREA --- 
10,000 FEDDANS                              j"
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
GIZA  GOVERNORATE                                                          HELWAN
AREA COVERED BY UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE 1[,
IDA AND BANK PROJECT
EXISTING OPEN DRAINS TO BE REMODELLED UNDER
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE ][ ,IDA AND BANK PROJECT
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS
OTHER IRRIGATION CANALS
_____ OTHER EXISTING DRAINS
-4----I RAILWAY
O  43    TOWNS                                                                   0 El-Minyo
O                 5                 10
Miles
0     E         Ip1S         y    J0  15
Kilometers
TE   CYPRU    'S~YRIAN
SjE   sCY  t    \ ~ARAB7                                          t        g
,P tff   ,  P   LEBA         MASSA NDA NORTH AREA            2 \      )I '
10,A00 FEDDANS  --                     g '    .
SADi
* ARAB
R REPUBLIC OF E
.L  ... . VASS0ii~,J            Th b-dk~  ~pdo(5p
SUDAN_                    Wor,dBcrtdi S&flo-dt.      // //






IBRD-12115
MAY 1976
Birket Qaru()n                                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BILHARZIA CONTROL
FAYOUM-                                                     PROGRAM
TEXENSION BILHARZIA
~~ ~CONTROL'AREA
"''-.J BILHARZIA CONTROL AREA
|            /               /           _CU      ACULTIVATED AREAS
- '                /             _      IRRIGATION CANALS
-- -                  / RIVERS
BENI SUEF      _    BARRAGE OR HEADWORKS
290                                             /                         ROADS
j               , -----4--.- RAILWAYS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
N   BENI SUEF
0        20        40         60        80
KILOMETERS
0       10      20      30      40      50
i             I   MILES
/-IBRAHIMIA CANAL
BAHR YOUSEF CANAL_.
EL MINYA             \EL MINA
280                                                                                                     280
2-AIRUT HEADWORKS
\4N   t1                f~~~~~~Dairu~t-
CAIRO                               D      --
F   t   > AREAX                          t      .
MAP
\  _'_7   T  BARRAGE
ASYUT        -
ARAB  REPUBLIC                                    ASYUT
OF EGYPT
The boundaries shown on this map do not
ASWAN;   -270                                       <\   imply endorsement or acceptance by the 270
3P                                                  32World Bank and its affiliates.
_     2$                           ~~~~~~~~~~310%                                      3123 



