Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1826-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTEE'NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPCISED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
May 26, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   - US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar             = LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   = US$1.70
1 US Dollar             = LE 0.59
From February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   - US$1.56
1 US Dollar             = LE 0.64
ABBREVIATIONS
EPADP     = Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
WHO       = World Health Organization
fd        =  feddan
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE 0ONLY
INTERNATIONkL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE II PROJECT
1.        I submit the lollowing report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit of $40.0 million on standard IDA terms and a proposed Bank
loan of $10.0 million for a term of 25 years including 5 years grace, with
interest at 8.85 percent: per annum, to the Arab Republic of Egypt to finance
part of the costs of the Upper Egypt Drainage II Project. The United States
Agency for International. Development (USAID) is also expected to participate
in the financing of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating mission visited Egypt in January/February 1976, and its findings are
incorporated in this report. A basic economic mission arrived in Cairo in
the first week of May. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        The 1974 "October Paper," presented by President Sadat to the
people and the Parliament and approved in a national referendum, continues
to provide the basic primciples which guide Egyptian-development. These en-
visage decentralization of decision-making of state-owned enterprises, lib-
eralization of the private sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage
private foreign investmenit and expanded economic cooperation with Arab coun-
tries. Accordingly, in .l974 and 1975, Egypt initiated a number of steps in
furtherance of these principles, which are expected to lead to a significant
restructuring of the economy. In particular, steps were taken to remove some
of the heavy restrictions on private business activities, to encourage fo-
reign private investment and to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate.  It should be noted, moreover, that this policy of economic
liberalization was pursued in a generally unfavorable international political
and economic environment..
4.        The present Government, formed in April 1975 and reconstituted in
March 1976, has reaffirmed its intention to maintain the iomentum towards a
more self-reliant, equitable and liberalized economy, and f3r that purpose to
1/   The text of this part of the report is the same as that in Part I of
the President's Repc,rt, P-1840-EGT of May 14, 1976, on the Fruit and
Vegetable Development Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
implement a wide-ranging-economic management program. In particular, the Gov-
ernment has initiated or intends to take measures: (i) to improve coordina-
tion in economic policy making; (ii) to improve public sector efficiency
through decentralization and rehabilitation; (iii) to rationalize consumption
subsidies and to increase national savings, while protecting the real income
of lower income groups, through appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;
(iv) to promote efficiency in resource allocation through widening the parallel
foreign exchange market and pursuing price policies that would better reflect
economic scarcities; and (v) to rationalize its external debt situation and
implement a debt-management program. The implementation of these policy ob-
jectives, in conjunction with the substantial inflow of foreign aid obtained
in 1975 and expected in 1976 (para 17), revenues from the Suez Canal (opened
on June 5, 1975), revitalized economic activity in the Canal Zone and rapidly
rising oil income, should lead to a considerable strengthening of the Egyptian
economy in the coming years.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Egypt's economy entered 1976 still bearing the marks of war and of a
decade of under-investment requiring substantial rebuilding and rehabilitation.
In 1974 and 1975 Egypt's economy was dominated by pressures that originated in
the external sector but spilled over into the rest of the economy. On the ex-
ternal side, these included the slow progress towards peace in the Middle
East; the steep rise in the prices of Egypt's main imports; the recession in
the industrialized countries; and the slow disbursement of concessional as-
sistance and private external capital. On the domestic side, the escalation
in the world prices of food led to an almost threefold increase in the net
budgetary subsidies on items of mass consumption, as the Government attempted
to maintain domestic prices of imported foodstuffs. Pent-up demand led to a
rise in the level of consumption and, combined with world inflation, led to a
marked rise in the general level of prices.
6.        The deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was largely met by
the use of short-term bank credit facilities, which reached a level of LE
1,055 million ($2.7 billion) 1/ at the end of 1974. The debt structure
worsened and the short maturity period of the bank credit facilities created
problems of liquidity. The heavy subsidization of items of mass consump-
tion, together with the slow growth of tax revenues, squeezed public sector
savings and increased the Government's borrowings from the banking system.
This resulted in a 29 percent increase in money and quasi-money in a year
when output in real terms is estimated to have increased only by about 4
percent. Almost inevitably, inflation continued at a high rate. Thus, the
Egyptian economy entered 1975 in a very vulnerable state, with both external
and domestic resources fully stretched.
7.        In 1975, the Government made efforts to prevent a major expansion in
the use of bank credit facilities. It also sought to obtain long-term loans
from Arab countries in order to "refinance" the bank credit facilities. These
1/ Including undisbursed amounts.



- 3 -
efforts succeeded in raising LE 672 million ($1.72 billion) during 1975 on con-
cessionary terms from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar and
a start was made towards reducing the level of outstanding bank credit facili-
ties (para 21). However, the net cost-of-living subsidies in 1975 were bud-
geted at LE 493 million ($1.26 billion) -- an increase of almost 50 percent
above the actual figure for the previous year. Public sector savings -- and
hence, because of its size, total domestic savings -- for 1975 remained low.
8.        Production and Investment.   Economic growth in 1974 is estimated
at about 4 percent in real terms, with industry (largely because of greater
utilization of capacity) and services (including construction and tourism)
being the leading growth sectors. Investment expenditures increased from
LE 470 million in 1973 (which was only marginally above the 1965/66 level)
to LE 740 million in 1974 (in current prices), which is about 20 percent of
GDP, and represents an increase of about 40 percent in real terms. The 1975
Plan envisaged gross fixed investment of LE 1154 million, of which LE 1056
million were in the public sector. The 1975 Plan had the following priorities:
(i) reconstruction in the Suez Canal area (mainly in housing and related in-
frastructure); (ii) completion of ongoing projects; (iii) replacement, renewal,
and better utilization of idle capacity; and (iv) new projects considered
essential for economic development, such as for producing fertilizers and
cement. The Plan also proposed tripling investment in the private sector to
LE 98 million, almost alL of which will be in service activities and commodi-
ties production. Preliminary estimates indicate that the real growth of GDP
in 1975 is likely to have been around 4 percent, while investment may have
reached about 70 percent of the target.
9.        Prices.   Despite subsidies and price controls over a wide range of
commodities, inflation has continued at a high rate: the Consumer Price Index
for urban population increased by 10 percent in 1974, with the food and bever-
ages sub-index registering a rise of 15 percent. Price increases in 1975 are
likely to be of the same order of magnitude. It is likely that these figures
substantially understate the real level of inflation in the economy, as they
are based on controlled prices.
10.        The Domestic Budget.   Preliminary budget figures for 1974 show a
rise in the deficit to LE 653 million ($1.7 billion) compared with LE 386
million ($990 million) in 1973, largely because of a 270 percent increase in
the cost of living subsidies (to LE 330 million-$845 million) 1/, while cur-
rent revenues increased by about 12 percent to LE 1,143 million ($2.9 billion).
The 1975 budget projected a deficit of LE 925 million ($2.4 billion), despite
an estimated 35 percent Increase in current revenues (arising principally from
a doubling of revenues firom customs duties, including collection of arrears).
Direct bank financing of the budget deficit is projected at LE 125 million, but
1/   Almost entirely due to the increase in international prices of imported
foodstuffs (largely flour, maize, sugar and edible oils).



- 4 -
in fact total lending by the banking sector to the Government will greatly ex-
ceed this level. Preliminary figuires for the first half of 1975 indicate that
both current revenues and expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts,
althcuglh, on the revenue side, continuing substantial arrears in import duties
were offset by a higher-than-projected growth of other taxes.
11.       Balance of Payments0   Egypt's deficit on its trade and services
account amounted to LE 619 million ($1,584 million) in 1974 (more than twice
that experienced in 1973). Egypt's balance of payments difficulties were
further compounided by a slow disbursement of medium- and long-term loans
committed during 1973 and 1974 and a high level of debt repayments cf LE 255
million ($654 million) in 1974; this resulted in a net outflow of LE 52 mil-
lion ($132 million) on official medium- and long-term capital. Substantially
increased Arab grants of LE 475 millicn ($1,217 million) in 1974 helped to
reduce the current deficit but the overall deficit on the current and the
medium- and long-term capital accounts nevertheless amounted to LE 199 million
($511 million), which was met by the use of bank credit facilities.
12.       Estimates of Egypt's balance of trade and services in 1975 indicate
a deficit of about LE 965 million ($2.5 billion). Repayments of about LE 270
million ($690 million) had to be made during the year on outstanding inter-
national obligations (excluding banking facilities). The resulting deficit
(of about LE 1,235 million -- about $3.16 billion) was financed largely through
Arab grants, commodity loans, project loans, suppliers' credits and "rolling
over" of banking facilities (para 22).
13.       Since September 1973 a feature of Egypt's trade and exchange rate
regime has been a "parallel market" for certain transactions in foreign ex-
change (tourism, non-traditional exports, and private sector current imports),
for which a devalued rate (originally about LE 1 = $1.70) of the Egyptian pound
is applied. During 1974, this market was expanded by the introduction of the
"own exchange imports scheme," whereby Egyptians holding foreign exchange ab-
road were permitted to use their balances to import commodities from a list of
about 300 items. In November 1975, the own exchange imports scheme was ex-
panded to cover almost all private imports. The scope of the parallel market
was widened in January 1976 to cover ten percent of all official imports
except supply commodities. The parallel market rate was adjusted in February
1976 to LE 1 = $1.56.
Development Prospects
14.       Despite the current economic difficulties, Egypt's economic poten-
tial over the long run is promising. The reasons for this assessment are in
brief: (i) the country has a large market, a skilled population, low wages,
varied raw materials, and a key geographical location, which makes it a
natural base for industries that wish to supply the domestic market and the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to rise to
a level of around LE 300 million ($770 million) per year by 1980, and may
increase further as a result of physical expansion and greater usage of the
Canal; (iii) Egypt's improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by
the oil companies) at one million barrels a day by 1980-82; (iv) considerably
increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $225 million In



-5-
1975; (v) a more intensive utilization of agricultural land, with greater
emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increased flow of remittances
(estimated at about $250 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the
richer Arab countries of the region.
15.       However, the realization of the long-term potential hinges upon a
number of complex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The
most important of these i's a definite movement towards an equitable and per-
manent peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, the attainment of
Egypt's prospects requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable port:folio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic policies and institutions. Hence, a realistic estimate
of the time required to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy
would be of the order of at least 5-10 years.
External Assistance
16.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until. the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased:
the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million (LE 4-5
million) annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period
FY 1968-1972; amortization payments were some $7 million (LE 3 million)
greater than disbursements in 1973. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countrie!s (estimated in excess of $1,200 million - LE 470
million) financed the bulk of Egypt's development.    These inflows, however,
declined significantly irL 1974 and new commitments in that year dropped to a
relatively low level of $76 million (LE 30 million). On the aggregate, slow
disbursements of medium- and long-term aid resulted in a net outf]ow on this
account (to both Eastern and Western bloc countries) increasing to about $132
million (LE 52 million) in 1974. Drawings on suppliers' credits exceeded
repayments by about $21 million (LE 8 million); disbursements on other medium-
and long-term loans amounted to about $249 million (LE 97 million) while re-
payments of such loans amounted to $402 million (LE 157 million). In addition,
interest payments (mainly on bank credit facilities) amounted to about $156
million (LE 61 million).
17.       Substantial Arab aid was received in recent years.    Aid received
from,Arab countries in 1974 amounted to $1,217 million (LE 475 mi]lion) and
financed about 36 percent, of Egypt's imports. Of this, $996 million (LE 389
million) was received in convertible foreign exchange while the rest was in the
form of petroleum grants. A major development during the year was the renewal
of substantial aid commitments, estimated at about $205 million (IE 80 million),
from Western countries. In fact, following the approval of the Bank loan and
IDA credit for the first Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project in December
1974, sizeable program assistance was obtained by Egypt from the UIS, Iran,
Germany, and Japan, enabling these sectors further to increase their output and
capacity utilization.   In 1975 aid commitments totalled about $3.26 billion



-6-
(para 21). For FY76, the US Government has requested Congressional approval
for economic assistance on a level of some $700 million, part of which is
expected to be in the form of commodity aid. Grants from Arab countries which
reached about $1 billion in 1973 and 1974 are expected to continue, perhaps at
a somewhat lower level. Aid from the other OECD countries, especially France,
Germany, UK and Japan, is expected to remain at the increased level of 1974/75;
the European Community is also supplying agricultural commodities at conces-
sional prices (including one million tons of wheat) during 1975/76. The
creation of a fund by four Arab oil producing countries to participate in
financing Egypt's development program has been announced recently.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Egypt's external debt profile worsened in 1974 almost entirely as a
result of its borrowing short-term funds at high rates of interest (in the
form of bank credit facilities). Bank credit facilities (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $2.7 billion (LE 1055 million) at the end of 1974, com-
pared with about $1,127 million (LE 440 million) at the end of 1973. Out-
standing debt to correspondent banks overseas (i.e., disbursed amounts or
letters of credit encashed by these institutions) amounted to $1,082 million
(LE 423 million) compared with $499 million (LE 195 million) at the end of
1973. The use of this type of financing created serious external liquidity
problems for Egypt in 1975, during which $2,190 million (LE 855 million) of
repayments (including interes-t payments of LE 75 million-$192 million) on
these credits had to be made.
19.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1974, was estimated at $2,760 million (LE 1,078
million), i.e., roughly the same level as the previous year. The composition
of this debt changed, however, with medium- and long-term government debt in-
creasing slightly to $1,769 million (LE 691 million) and amounts owed as sup-
pliers' credits and balance of bilateral accounts showing significant declines
to $474 million and $417 million (LE 185 million and LE 163 million), respec-
tively. In addition, $100 million (LE 39 million) of medium-term debt was con-
tracted from financial institutions. At end 1974, the USSR was Egypt's prin-
cipal creditor, followed in importance by Germany, Kuwait, the United States,
Australia and Italy. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 1 percent of the total. Of
the reported external public debt at end 1974, about 31 percent was due to be
repaid within two years, 40 percent within three years, and 46 percent within
four years. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount
to about $710 million in 1974, indicating a debt-service ratio of 32 percent.
No reliable estimates of military debt are available, but it is understood that
Egypt is seeking a rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
20.       During 1975, the Egyptian authorities embarked upon a four-pronged
strategy to place the country's external accounts on a sound basis. The first
step was to stop outstanding foreign bank credit to Egypt from spiralling even
higher (and worsening the liquidity position) by placing a "one-to-one" limit
on the use of banking facilities. Thus the amount of new letters of credit
opened against bankers' facilities in any given period could not exceed the



- 7 -
amount of cash repayments made 6n such facilities falling due in that period.
Simultaneously, the Egyptian Government sought the aid of Arab and other states
for substantial medium- and long-term loans on concessionary terms which would
constitute a "fund" to be held in the Central Bank to meet further payments due
on bankers' facilities. Third, medium- and long-term aid was sought from
Western countries and Japan in a quick-disbursing form (such as program loans
and commodity assistance) in order to finance Egypt's essential imports.
Finally, discussions were resumed with the Soviet Union for a rescheduling of
debt service payments.
21.       The Government's efforts to mobilize external assistance met with
considerable success in 1975. Long-term loans, at concessionary terms, total-
ling $1,720 million (LE 672 million -- $600 million from Kuwait, $600 million
from Saudi Arabia, $320 million from Iran, $150 million from Abu Dhabi and
$50 million from Qatar) were received in 1975. In addition, Arab countries,
Arab development funds, UfSA, Germany, Japan, France, Denmark and Iran have com-
mitted about $1,530 million as concessional aid. In February 1976 President
Sadat visited a number of Arab countries, and commitments for an immediate
transfer to Egypt of about $700 million in cash have been announced. It is
expected that further funds will be sought, and imports will probably be
reduced from the currently projected level. It has also been announced that,
for the longer-term, a fund to assist Egyptian development is being set up by
a group of Arab countrieE, although the amounts that will be available to it
are still uncertain.
22.       Egypt was, however, unsuccessful in its efforts to reduce its depend-
ence on bank credit facilities. Although a large part of the loans received
from Arab countries were in fact used to pay off bank credits failing due, be-
cause of the country's import requirements (estimated at $4.5 billion in 1975),
a high level of fresh bank credits (LE 700 million or $1,792 miliion) was in-
curred. As a result, Egypt's external debt situation deteriorated further in
1975. While medium- and long-term debt outstanding at end 1975 is estimated
to have increased to about $4.4 billion, compared to $2.76 billion at end 1974,
short-term debt in the form of bank credit facilities outstanding (including
unutilized credits) was only slightly reduced; on December 31, 1975, it was
$2,620 million, compared with $2,700 million at end of 1974.
23.       Accordingly, considerable further measures are required to assure a
permanent improvement and the firm establishment of creditworthiness, To
assure stable and sustained growth in the long-term, some fundamental policy
decisions will be required. These include:
(i) improved coordination in economic policy-making;
(ii) improved public enterprise efficiency through decentralization
and other measures;
(iii)  rationalization of consumption subsidies and increased domes-
tic savings, while protecting lower income groups through
appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;



- 8 -
(iv) promotion of efficient resource allocation through widening
the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing price
policies that would better reflect economic scarcities;
(v) reduction of the use of short-term lending facilities, ratio-
nalization of the external debt situation and implementation
of a debt management program; and
(vi) The preparation of a medium-term plan covering the period
1976-80, to provide a framework for investment decisions and
policies.
While some steps have been taken recently with respect to (ii), (iv), (v) and
(vi) above, these measures will require continuing review and action. At the
Government's request, the Bank has arranged to review developments in the
economy by economic missions three or four times a year; the first of these
took place in October 1975 and the second in January 1976. A basic economic
mission is at present in Egypt. In view of Egypt's promising medium-term
prospects, and the efforts currently underway to prepare and implement poli-
cies that will enable the country better to exploit its development potential,
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for Bank lending as well as IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
24.       The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's twentieth lending op-
eration in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$548.1 million. 1/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of April 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       Following a decade of severe underinvestment in the economic sectors
and in infrastructure, Egypt's need for investment and its absorptive capac-
ity are both large. Also, as a result of the weak balance of payments posi-
tion over the past two years, the funds available for essential raw materials
and intermediate goods for agriculture and industry have been insufficient
and the productive capacity of the economy was underutilized. The principal
objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is to provide foreign ex-
change in support of its development program through lending (i) for increas-
ing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii) for projects which
would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for
imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sectors, (iii)
for projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure necessary to
1/   Including a $50.0 million Third Window loan for the Fruit and Vege-
tables Development Project scheduled for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 28, 1976.



- 9 -
facilitate development, and (iv) for selected social sectors, nameLy popula-
tion and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects has been
widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required for most of these
projects from other donors. Besides the technical assistance included under
the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank has been asked to act as Executing Agency for
a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and a Master Plan for Water Re-
sources and Uses. Work on these is expected to begin later this year. It has
also extended limited technical assistance in the preparation of a five-year
development plan.
26.       The projects financed in FY74 and FY75 were in support oE this
strategy. A second credit for the development finance operations of the
Bank of Alexandria was approved in early FY76, and a loan for rehabilitation
of the Port of Alexandria, to be cofinanced with USAID and the Japanese Over-
seas Economic Cooperation Fund, was approved in April 1976. In agriculture,
besides this proposed credit and loan for drainage, a Bank loan on Third
Window terms is to be presented to the Executive Directors in late May for a
project for the production and marketing of fruit and vegetables. A loan for
a project aimed at the rehabilitation and modernization of two major public
sector textiles enterprises is expected to be presented to the Executive Di-
rectors shortly. A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is also
being developed, including projects in the education and power sectors, drain-
age in the Nile Delta, water and sewerage, and industry.
27.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent a small
portion, less than 10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements.
The Bank Group's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was
about 1 percent at the end of 1974 (1-3/4% as of September 30, 1975). For the
future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
excluding military debts is estimated to reach about 10 percent in 1978 of
which the Bank share would be about 7 percent. It is estimated that in 1978,
debt service payments due to the Bank Group will represent about 1 percent of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
28.       IFC has in the past two years also been discussing private sector and
joint venture projects. One in the building materials subsector was approved
by the Executive Directors in April 1976.
Previous Bank Group Agricultural Operations in Egypt
29.       There have been two IDA credits for drainage projects (see paras.
39-43 below), the Nile Delta Drainage Credit (No. 181-UAR of 1970) for $26.0
million, covers 950,000 feddans 1/ (fd) which comprises about one-quarter of
the total area of the Delta, and the Upper Egypt Drainage Credit (No. 393-UAR
of 1973), for $36 million, covers 300,000 fd (covering about one-seventh of
the rural area of Upper Egypt). Both provide tile drains, remodelling and
constructing associated open drains, and constructing pumping statLons; the
Upper Egypt project also provides $6.5 million for a bilharzia control com-
ponent. The projects suffered from delays due to shortage of loca:L currency
1/   One feddan equals to 1.04 acres or 0.42 hectares.



- 10 -
and of engineers under the circumstances affecting the Egyptian economy up to
1974. These problems have been largely overcome in the past eighteen months,
and the pace of project implementation has improved. Under the 1974 Agricul-
tural and Industrial Imports Project (Credit No. 524-EGT and Loan No. 1062-
EGT), $19 million was provided for urgently needed imports to meet pressing
needs for agricultural chemicals, pesticides, animal feed, and spare parts for
agricultural machinery to improve utilization of available productive capacity
in the sector. Procurement has been largely completed, and disbursements are
continuing.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
30.       The Egyptian Agriculture Sector is discussed in detail in the report
"Egyptian Agriculture, Development Problems, Constraints and Alternatives"
(931b-EGT) distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1976. Only
about 2-1/2 percent of Egypt's total land area, or about 2.53 million hectares,
equivalent to about six million feddans (fd), is cultivated. About 5-1/2
million fd. in the valley of the Nile and the Delta, known as the "Old Lands,"
is cultivated as is about half a million fd. of reclaimed land, almost all of
which is on the fringes of the Nile Valley and, especially, of the Delta. How-
ever, since two or more crops are grown each year on much of the land, the
cropped area averages about 10.8 mn fd. Egypt has virtually no rainfall, and
agriculture is dependent on the Nile: successive dammings have enabled almost
the whole of the Old Lands to benefit from perennial irrigation. The flat
topography and rich soil, and the long agricultural traditions, have also
helped maintain a relatively high level of land productivity, although there
is considerable scope for further increases.
31.       Agriculture accounts for approximately 30 percent of GNP and some
52 percent of exports of goods, and employs just under half the labor force;
it remains the dominant sector of Egypt's economy. Crops account for about 75
percent of agricultural output, with cotton, maize, wheat, rice and berseem (a
fodder crop) being the major crops; about 15 percent of output is from fruit
and vegetables. Egypt's main agricultural exports are cotton (LE 259 mn or 75
percent of agricultural exports in 1974), rice (LE 40 mn), citrus fruit (LE 11
mn), and fresh and processed vegetables (LE 15 mn).    On the other hand, there
are substantial imports of food and feed, including wheat and flour (about LE
296 mn in 1974), sugar, feed grains and meat, altogether accounting for LE 338
mn or 27 percent of total imports.
32.       Agricultural output increased at nearly 4 percent per annum between
1955 and 1965; since then it has declined to about 2 percent per annum despite
the expansion in perennial irrigation, because of salinity, the rising water
table and the constraints described below. In per capita terms both food and
overall agricultural production have declined necessitating a substantial
increase in basic food imports, while agricultural exports, have not risen
appreciably. During the past three years food import costs have risen sharply
from about $250 million in 1972 to over $1.25 billion in 1975. Government
subsidy costs to supply basic foods in urban areas have risen from $100
million in 1972 to $1.3 billion in 1975.



- 11 -
33.       Following land reform legislation in 1952, 1961 and 1969, land
ownership in Egypt is widely distributed: 57 percent of the cultivated land is
in farms of less than 5 f:d. The maximum holding is 50 fd, or 100 fd for a
family, and only 12 percent of the land (owned by 0.3 percent of the farmers)
is in family holdings of more than 50 fd. The three and a quarter million
holdings in the Old Lands are grouped into 4,000 cooperatives, administered by
the General Agricultural Cooperative Society, and the Land Reform Cooperative
Society. This system is currently under review, and proposals have been made
for streamlining it and reducing the number of cooperatives to about 700.
34.       The Ministry o, Agriculture has been responsible for agricultural
production, desert land reclamation and for developing reclaimed land, while
the construction of irrigation works and the provision of field drainage are
responsibilities of the Ministry of Irrigation. The institutions within the
Ministry of Agriculture responsible for development of reclaimed land were
reorganized in late 1975 as part of the general policy throughout the economy
of decentralization of public enterprises (paras 3 and 4). Autonomous
companies have been established in place of the General Organization for Land
Reclamation, which previously performed this function. Each company is
responsible for developing the reclaimed land in its area, under the super-
vision of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Policies and Constraints
35.       Since 1965 agricultural planning has been on a short-term basis.
Drafts of formal long-term plans have been discussed in the past, and a Five
Year Plan is under preparation as part of the overall plan (paras 23 and
37). Nevertheless, there are some generally accepted policy goals and guide-
lines. Agriculture should supply much of the domestic food needs, and gen-
erate foreign exchange earnings from exports to help meet Egypt's large
import needs. To this end, and given the policy aim of maintaining low and
stable domestic food prices, the Ministry of Agriculture has maintained close
control over agricultural production by regulating the cropping patterns of
all farmers, supplying them with inputs at fixed, subsidized prices, and by
buying allocated amounts of traditional crops at low, controlled prices. This
policy is now under review as part of the general review of domestic economic
policies. The low, administered profit margins for traditional field crops
make it unprofitable for him to use the inputs necessary for increased
output of traditional crops. The regulated cropping patterns also prevent
switching to crops such as vegetables from which far higher revenue could be
obtained. Overall cropping patterns have remained relatively constant
in recent years.
36.       Physical, financial and institutional constraints have all contri-
buted to the modest performance of the sector. In the past emphasis was on
easing the physical constraints on agriculture through a program of horizontal
expansion, i.e., desert land reclamation projects. This has been costly and
slow to produce results. In recent years, investment in reclamation (as well



- 12 -
as in large-scale public sector poultry projects) have absorbed most of the
relatively small amount of Government funds allocated to agriculture, at the
expense of investment needs elsewhere in the sector, including provision of
farm inputs, research and extension services, processing and marketing facil-
ities and agricultural credit. A decline in the fertility of the Old Lands,
the basic source of Egyptian agricultural wealth, also points to the need to
allocate considerably larger funds to public investment in the Old Lands.
37.       The sector report (para 30) describes the possibilities of substan-
tial increases in agricultural output, and the increased returns that can be
obtained from an increased allocation of public investment to the old lands,
coupled with removal of agricultural institutional constraints. The Government
is aware of many of the shortcomings described above, particularly of the
physical constraints, and the need to improve agricultural planning. In the
context of the 1976-80 five year plan, a new policy of vertical expansion is
under consideration. This redirection of investment towards increasing the
productivity of existing arable land, particularly that which is already
reclaimed, is capable of producing substantially greater and quicker returns.
38.       While there is appreciation that reduction of the physical constraints
will increase output, greater attention needs to be directed to allowing the
farmer to respond to market forces. In addition to the need to improve the
existing services of research, training and extension, and to increasing in-
vestment in drainage, soil improvement, supply of quality seed and fertilizer,
it is important to increase production incentives to farmers by increasing
profit margins in the traditional crops, deregulating cropping patterns, or
both.
Drainage in Egypt
39.       Waterlogging and salinity have recently become major, physical
limiting factors to crop production in many areas. Present drainage condi-
tions result from the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam in 1965 and the
resultant shift from basin to perennial irrigation. Prior to the harnessing
of the Nile, the water table would gradually become lower after the annual
flood period, until it would reach 2m or more below the soil surface. How-
ever, with the spread of perennial irrigation the groundwater levels have been
rising over time. The existing drainage system has not been able to cope with
the additional irrigation water. Moreover, seepage from the new irrigation
canals and from higher fields have contributed to a rise in the groundwater
levels in many areas. The result has been to create waterlogging conditions
which have serious effects on agricultural output. Soil salinity has also
increased. Installation of drainage will reduce waterlogging and allow soil
to be flushed by irrigation, removing salt with the excess water.
40.       In 1960 the Government decided to launch a 30-year program to im-
prove drainage in the entire 6 million fd of irrigated land, of which some
2.0 million fd are in Upper Egypt. However, mainly because of financial and
administrative constraints, between 1960 and 1970 only some 500,000 fd in the
Delta-and 80,000 fd in Upper Egypt were drained. The table below summarizes
the situation with respect to drainage in the country as a whole, showing
irrigated area and the lands facing serious deterioration in yieldf; lof up to
30 percent).



- 13 -
('000 feddans)
Bank/IDA financed area
Irrigated  Priority area  Area drained                Bilharzia
area    for drainage    (until 1970)   Drainage      Control
Lower Egypt     4,000        3,500            500           950 /1      --
(approx.)
Upper Egypt     2,000        1,000             80           300 /2      900 /2
(approx.)
500 /3      120 /3
/1   $26 mln Nile Delta Credit, 1970.
/2   $36 mln Upper Egypt I Credit, 1973.
/3   Proposed Upper Egypt. II.
The total cost of the Ni]e Delta project is presently estimated at some $246
million, and of the Upper Egypt I Project, at some $145 million. The local
currency required on those projects is about six times the foreign exchange
cost. Implementation of both the ongoing projects was delayed by unsettled
conditions prevailing in Egypt until 1974, and especially by local currency
shortages. Following discussions between the Association and the Government,
in 1975 adequate local currency was made available. Moreover, as a result of
the significant and highly visible yield increases (estimated by the Ministry
of Agriculture to range between 15 and 35 percent) following drainage, farmers
have recently been urging the Government to accelerate the pace of the drainage.
The Government has now accorded highest priority in the agriculture sector to
drainage and, besides prcvision of local currency, has also taken measures to
ensure adequate staff in the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
(para 42). At the-end of 1974 some 250,000 fd in the Nile Delta Project area
had been provided with tile drainage, while preparatory works were begun in
the Upper Egypt I area. In 1975 some 90,000 fd were completed in the Nile
Delta and some 10,000 fd in the Upper Egypt Project areas. It is expected
that in 1976 the rate of implementation of drainage will rise to some 140,000
fd in the Nile Delta and to 60,000 fd in Upper Egypt under the ongoing projects.
The Government now aims to complete drainage in all remaining lands by 1985.
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
41.       In 1973, after the appraisal of the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project,
the Government combined the, two bodies which had been responsible for drainage
in Lower, and Upper Egypt to form the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP), which became responsible for all drainage works in the
country, including the two IDA-financed projects. EPADP is responsible to the
Ministry of Irrigation.



- 14 -
42.       EPADP is empowered to carry out field investigations, planning,
design, procurement, construction, budgeting and operation of project ac-
counts. In Upper Egypt the responsibility for planning, design and execution
of drainage works rests with the vice chairman for Upper Egypt assisted by a
deputy. Field supervision of drainage works in Upper Egypt is carried out by
the EPADP directors general in the eight governorates. EPADP is responsible
for supervising the installation of the pumping station and transmission lines
and for its maintenance workshops, stores and mechanical equipment. EPADP's
performance in 1975 has been markedly improved and its staff and facilities
have been expanded to cope with the accelerated pace of the drainage program
(para 40). In the past communication has been inadequate between the exten-
sion agents of the Ministry of Agriculture and the staff of EPADP. Recently,
however, drainage coordination committees including Ministry of Agriculture
representatives have been established at ministry and at governorate levels,
and this should help to improve the situation.
Bilharzia
43.       Bilharzia, or schistosomiasis, a disease caused by a parasite which
passes part of its life cycle in a water snail host, has been endemic in Egypt
since ancient times, and is the most prevalent and serious endemic disease in
Upper Egypt. Its spread has been intensified by perennial irrigation; over 60
percent of the rural population in irrigated areas is infected. Past campaigns
to treat snail-infested areas suffered because they were localised and there
was rapid infestation from surrounding areas. In 1968-1971 following a suc-
cessful large-scale operation carried out in a heavily infested area in Fayoum,
financed by the German Government the incidence of the disease was reduced
from 46 percent in 1968 to 9 percent in 1974. Bilharzia control requires
blanket treatment of all canals and drainage ditches in an area for about
three years, together with chemotherapy for infected people in the area.
The canals can thereafter be maintained with small, local applications of
molluscicide. Thus after the three years, costs of maintenance of control
are minimal and can be borne by the Government. The Fayoum project formed a
practical pattern of control which was adopted as basis for the current
bilharzia control program financed by IDA as a component of the ongoing Upper
Egypt I Drainage Project. This program covers an area of about 900,000 fd
(nearly half the total fertile area of Upper Egypt) in three governorates,
where incidence of bilharzia is amongst the highest in Egypt. The total cost
of the program was estimated at $8.1 million, including some $6.5 million in
foreign exchange for equipment, materials and technical assistance. It is
believed to be the largest program of bilharzia control undertaken in the
world and benefits some 3 million people living in the area. Treatment for
snail infestation was to be carried out after preparation of a Plan of Opera-
tion and pilot trials to test the efficacy of molluscicides. The pilot trials
were completed in 1975 and full-scale treatment of canals began in April 1976.
As a result of the increase in prices of chemicals in 1974, the foreign ex-
change cost of molluscicides has risen by an additional $4.2 million. More-
over, under the proposed Upper Egypt Drainage II Project, the Government
has requested the area for bilharzia control to be increased by a further
120,000 fd (para 50).



- 15 -
The Project Area
44.       The proposed drainage project area covers a total of 500,000 fd
land in the eight governorates in Middle and Upper Egypt. Most of the new
lands would be contiguous to those under the ongoing project. Within most of
the proposed project area., waterlogging and salinity have recently become the
major limiting factors to crop production. On approximately 12,000 fd culti-
vation has become impossible because of salinity. Without drainage facilities,
it is estimated that average crop yields in the project area as a whole would
decline by at least 30 percent over the next 35 years, whereas drainage is
expected to increase yields by between 15 and 35 percent above present levels.
Within the project area, t:here are an estimated 147,000 farm families or some
882,000 people. The average farm size according to a 1961 Agricultural Census
was 3.4 fd, but we expect that the average is now less,'and that there are now
fewer large farms in the area. At present about half of the inhabitants in
the project area are estimated to have incomes below the country's relative
poverty level, estimated to be $58 per capita.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project forms part of the continuing program of the Government
to install drainage works in the entire irrigated land in Egypt and covers
lands identified by the M:Lnistries of Agriculture and Irrigation as being the
areas in Upper Egypt having the most urgent need for drainage. It was pre-
pared by EPAD in September 1975, preappraised by the Association and Bank in
October 1975 and appraised in December 1975. A mission also visited Egypt in
April 1976 to update some of the data on the project. Negotiations were held
in Washington from May 7 to May 11 1976, with a delegation consisting of Dr.
Adly Abdel Meguid, Chief, Egyptian Economic Office, New York representing the
Government and Dr. Osman E11 Ghamry of EPAD. An appraisal report entitled
"Appraisal of Upper Egypt Drainage II Project" is being distributed separately
(No. 1111-EGT dated May 27, 1976), and a Credit/Loan and Project Summary is
attached as Annex III. Maps of Egypt and of the proposed project area are
attached.
The Project
46.       The objective of the drainage component to be carried out over some
500,000 fd is to halt the deterioration of fertility and increase yields. The
project is designed to keep the water table at least 1 m below the surface, to
provide the proper environiment for root development for all crops. It will
have a substantial and immaediate direct effect in improving crop yields, in-
creasing agricultural production, and hence rural incomes. Completion of
drainage in the proposed project area, and in the ongoing UJpper Egypt I
project area of 300,000 fd, would mean that most of the priority areas of
Upper Egypt would have been drained. The bilharzia control component will



- 16 -
contribute to a reduction of human suffering and to increasing labor produc-
tivity by lessening the incidence of this endemic, debilitating disease. By
enabling completion of the bilharzia program over 900,000 fd under Upper Egypt
I, and by extending that program to a further 120,000 fd, the proposed project
will combat bilharzia in over one million fd where it is most prevalent. This
is about half the total fertile area of Upper Egypt and contains 40 percent of
the total population of the area.
pescription: Drainage Component
47.       The proposed project would include:
(i) installation of about 50,000 km of buried field drains of PVC
corrugated pipes and about 6,000 km of buried field collectors
of cement pipes in the selected areas totaling 500,000 fd;
(ii) deepening and widening of about 1,226 km of existing open drains,
and excavation of about 346 km of new open drains;
(iii) construction of one pumping station with provision for an electri-
cal transmission line; and
(iv) reclamation by leaching of about 12,000 feddans of saline soils
distributed throughout the area to be drained, including sub-
soiling and gypsum application in about two thirds of this area
where soils are alkaline.
Vehicles, equipment and materials for drainage works, land reclamation, agri-
cultural extension and for training would be provided under the project. De-
tails are given in Annex III.
48.       In order to speed the implementation of Egypt's drainage program,
the proposed project differs from the two ongoing IDA-financed drainage proj-
ects in Egypt in two respects; the use of poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) corru-
gated pipe instead of cement pipe for covered drains, and the selection of
contractors for execution of the drainage through international competitive
bidding (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 1). When the two ongoing projects
were financed, there was no shortage of domestically produced cement and,
since economic activity was limited, it was agreed that the capable local
contracting industry should carry out the cement pipe making and laying works;
IDA financing was limited to equipment for pipe making and laying and for
pumping stations under the credits. In the past 18 months, however, because
of the spurt in economic activity in Egypt, particularly in civil works and
with the emphasis on reconstruction, the local industry no longer has spare
capacity to undertake further largescale work at satisfactory speed, and there
also is a shortage of cement. Use of PVC pipe for drainage is an established
technology which is adopted in many other countries, including in North Africa.
With the new approach, it is expected that there would be a saving of about
two years in the project implementation period. Since the production and



- 17 -
laying of PVC pipe proceeds at a faster pace than for cement pipes. The
proposed project will be completed in five years. For the proposed project,
the total cost of drainage! per fd would be lower than for the ongoing projects
although the foreign exchange component would be higher. However, because of
faster implementation, the benefits would accrue earlier and the economic rate
of return would be correspondingly higher.
49.       The first year of project implementation will consist mainly of re-
modelling of existing open drains and construction of new, to be carried out
by EPADP's local contractors using equipment financed from the proposed loan/
credit. Since covered drains cannot be installed until this work is done,
PVC pipe will be laid in an area of about 10,000 fd in that first year. The
drainage of this 10,000 fd will allow EPADP to gain experience in t:he use of
PVC pipe, to test the effLciency of the equipment and to find appropriate
solutions for matters such as best pipe diameters, gravel filters, etc. under
Egyptian soil conditions (Section 2.02(a), draft Project Agreement). EPADP
is considered capable of landertaking this work with services of experienced
consultants. Under an agreement signed between Egypt and the Netherlands
(see para 54), the Dutch Government has agreed to make available to EPADP, on
a grant basis, technical assistance in drainage and water management includ-
ing two consultants who would be resident in Egypt beginning June L976. Also,
under the project EPADP has agreed to employ there full time consuLtants for a
period of at least three years (Section 2.02(b), draft Project Agreement), to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Upper Egypt Drainage I Credit (para 54).
50.       Bilharzia Control Component.   The Upper Egypt I Credit contained
finance for a snail control program coupled with chemotherapy for infected
persons for the control of bilharzia, covering 900,000 fd, the area irrigated
by the Ibrahimia and Bahr Yousef canals commencing at the Dairut Barrage. A
logical extension of the present program would be to include in it the 120,000
fd between Dairut and the Asyut Barrage, further upstream. Although the
incidence of the disease may not be quite so high in this area as in that
originally covered, treatment will minimize reinfestation of the downstream
treated areas as well as benefitting the approximately 300,000 inhabitants.
The Government intends eventually to extend its control program into the less
intensely infected area further upstream. Provision of molluscicides, and of
small amounts of equipment for the 120,000 fd extension estimated at some
$0.88 million in foreign exchange (para 57) is included under the proposed
project. The Government has agreed to prepare within six months of the
Effective Date a plan of operations for the bilharzia control program over the
additional area (Section 3.07(a) draft Development Credit Agreement; Section
3.01, draft Loan Agreement). The pilot trials, using the two available
WHO-approved molluscicides and agreed upon with the Association, were slow to
start, but were completed in December 1975. They showed that Ethanolamine
Salt of 2.5 Dichloro - 4 nitro Salicylanilid (Bayluscide, manufactured by
Bayer AG, West Germany) was the more cost effective in treatment of snail
infestation in the prevaiLling conditions, and the Government is now using it.
The program, including molluscicide application and chemotherapy t:reatment, is



- 18 -
being carried out by the Ministry of Health. Sufficient quantities have been
ordered for the first stage of a large-scale program which began in April
1976. As explained earlier (para 43), due primarily to an increase in the cost
of molluscicides used for snail control (which occurred before the award of
contracts), the estimated foreign exchange cost of molluscicides for the
ongoing project has risen by $4.2 million to $8.5 million. The program is
vital to the health, well-being and productivity of the inhabitants of the
area, who are mostly poor farmers and the whole of the project area must be
given repeated applications of molluscicide for treatment to be effective.
Financing of the cost overrun is therefore proposed to be included in this
project (Schedules 1 and 2, draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 2.02,
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
51.       EPADP would be responsible for execution of the drainage elements
of the project (paras. 41 and 42). Since installation rates of covered
drains could be adversely affected by delays in award of contracts for con-
struction and remodelling of open drains, which are to be carried out by
local contractors (para. 49 above), EPADP has agreed to make timely awards
of contracts for open drains and Eor the pumping station (Section 2.03, draft
Project Agreement). Sufficient numbers of qualified contractors are avail-
able to undertake these types of relatively small-scale works. Procurement
would be the responsibility of the Administration and Finance Department of
EPADP and an ad hoc committee composed of the chairman, the vice chairman for
Upper Egypt and the head of the Technical Office of EPADP would approve
specifications and evaluate bids. The Government has agreed to ensure that
both the post of Chairman of EPADP and that of Vice Chairman for Upper Egypt
are, at all times, filled by qualified and experienced persons on a full-time
basis (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 3.01, draft
Loan Agreement).
52.       Soil studies and collection of data on crop yields would be under-
taken by the Ministry of Agriculture. The participation of the Extension
Service of the Ministry of Agriculture in the drainage program, which has
been wanting in the past, is essential. Extension agents should communicate
more effectively with farmers on the subject of drainage and should collabo-
rate with the drainage maintenance units to assure farmers' cooperation. The
Government has agreed to take, prior to effectiveness, the measures necessary
to ensure adequate coordination between Extension Service and EPADP at the na-
tional, governorate and district levels for initiating training programs for
extension personnel in all aspects of the drainage program and formulating
joint activities (Sections 3.04, 5.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement;
Sections 3.01, 6.01, draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the planning, execu-
tion, and supervision of the bilharzia control program of which the Bank would
finance the foreign exchange cost. This new program would be in addition to
the ongoing program now in force under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, and
would have the same program director, key personnel and plan of operation.



- 19 -
The Government will continue to employ a qualified and experienced program di-
rector (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 3.01, draft
Loan Agreement). The application of molluscicide would be closely supervised
by the Snail Control Department of the same ministry. The chemotheraphy treat-
ment of infected persons would be conducted by the Ministry of Health as well
as all bioassay checks and chemical analyses. The Government has agreed to
maintain in its Ministry of Health, a supervision and evaluation unit, which
will be responsible for overall supervision of the program, and for collect-
ing data on control effectiveness (Section 3.10, draft Development Credit
Agreement; Section 3.01, draft Loan Agreement). After completion of the pro-
gram, the irrigation and drainage canals can be maintained snail-free with
a small application of molluscicide about once or twice a year. The Govern-
ment has agreed to make satisfactory arrangements, including provision of
funds, to ensure continuation of the measures for control of bilharzia (Sec-
tion 3.11 draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.01 draft Loan
Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
54.       The Egyptian Government has been granted technical assistance from
the Dutch Government for consulting services on agricultural drainage. A
joint panel of Dutch and Egyptian consultants has been set up to meet period-
ically to advise EPADP on drainage and water management. However, EPADP would
require on-the-spot advice and assistance in using PVC pipes for drainage and
for training local staff in the new techniques involved and EPADP has agreed
to appoint three full-time consultants, each for at least a three-year period,
for this purpose (Section 2.02(b) draft Development Credit Agreement; Section
3.01, draft Loan Agreement). In addition, contractors of PVC pipe making
plants, and suppliers of pumping station and drainage equipment would be re-
quired to train the local staff in the operation, maintenance and repair of
their equipment. To train engineers and technicians of the project in modern
drainage practices, and operators and mechanics in the proper operation and
maintenance of the project equipment, a training center would be established
in Upper Egypt and training equipment would be provided under the project.
Instructors would be chosen from experienced Egyptian engineers, consultants
to EPADP and contractors' personnel (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
No funds are provided under the project for consulting services and training
abroad, as sufficient funds, yet to be fully used, have already been provided
for this purpose under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Credit. EPADP has agreed to
engage consultants as and when required, in consultation with the Association
and the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank (Section 2.02(b), draft Project Agreement).
55.       Although in the past shortage of engineering staff has been a prob-
lem, no difficulties are anticipated in recruiting personnel needed now as
the supply of engineers has increased, following *the reduction in military
needs for the same type of personnel. In addition, EPADP pays the field en-
gineers a special field allowance plus an annual bonus to attract them to
work in the Authority. In order to attract and retain qualified and exper-
ienced personnel EPADP has agreed to continue its existing policy for incen-
tives to staff (Section 3.01(b), draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated, on
the basis of end 1975 contract prices to be $282.0 million, excluding customs
duties. The foreign exchange component of the project cost is estimated at
$80.0 million. Details of the project costs are given in Annex III.
57.       The Egyptian Government has requested USAID to provide financing
for equipment and raw material for production of PVC pipe, and the foreign ex-
change cost of technical assistance for operation and maintenance of the
equipment, estimated to cost some $30.0 million. The proposed World Bank fi-
nancing of $50.0 million would cover the foreign exchange cost of equipment
and civil works for drainage ($44.9 million) equipment and molluscicides for
extension of the bilharzia control program over 120,000 fd ($0.9 million),
and the overrun on the molluscicides for completion of the ongoing bilharzia
control program over 900,000 fd under the Upper Egypt I project ($4.2 mil-
lion). The local currency requirements of $202.0 million would be provided
by the Government. Conclusion of the loan agreement with USAID would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(b), draft Loan Agreement; Section
6.01, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Procurement for the production of PVC plastic pipe will be in ac-
cordance with the agreement between USAID and the Government. USAID has in-
dicated that contractors would be required to provide technical assistance
in the form of experienced operators and mechanics to train Egyptian staff
in the use of the PVC manufacturing plants.
59.       PVC pipe laying and construction of collector drains would be imple-
mented under contracts awarded through international competitive bidding fol-
lowing World Bank guidelines for procurement. Project equipment, apart from
the contractor's equipment would be procured directly by EPADP through inter-
national competitive bidding. International bids would also be obtained for
the procurement of pumping equipment and installation of pumps, as well as for
the equipment and materials for the electrical transmission line to serve the
pumping equipment, which would be constructed by the Egyptian General Electricity
Corporation. Domestic bids would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the
actual customs duty, whichever is the lower. Contracts for construction and
remodelling of open main drains, land reclamation and buildings would not be
financed by IDA/Bank and would be awarded to local contractors in accordance
with the normal procurement procedures of Government; equipment procured by
EPADP under the project would however be used by the successful contractors
for this purpose. Terms of such use would be subject to approval by the
Association and the Bank (Section 2.07, draft Project Agreement).
60.       Molluscicide for bilharzia would be procured by international
competitive bidding; at present one manufacturer (in West Germany) and a
licensee (in the US) are known to produce the product.



- 21 -
61.       The IDA credit and Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Equipment and Materials       100 percent of foreign expenditures for
imported supplies or 80 percent of total
expenditures for imported supplies pro-
cured locally or 100 percent of ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured supplies.
Civil works for laying of     100 percent of foreign expenditures, and
drains and construction       25 percent of total expenditures under con-
of pumping stations           tracts that do not identify foreign ex-
penditures.
Cost Recovery
62.       As with the ongcing Upper Egypt Drainage I Project, the capital
costs of installing field drains, plus a 10 percent administrative charge,
would be recovered from beneficiaries, whether owners or tenants, by annual
installments over a period of not more than 20 years, free of interest. The
maintenance costs of field tile drains would be recovered through the land
tax. The land tax would be reassessed within two years of completion of
drainage works on project lands (Section 3.05, draft Development Credit
Agreement; Section 3.01, draft Loan Agreement). Of the project's total
capital costs of $282 mil]ion, an estimated $151 million or 54 percent will
be recovered through the annual installments. The increase in the land tax
would be sufficient to recover all the operation and maintenance costs of
covered drains, estimated at $0.8 million annually. The Government will study
the possibilities and ways of adjusting the annual installments for recovery
of capital costs so that t:he installments take into account changes in prices
and farmers incentives ancl ability to pay.
Benefits and Justification-
63.       The project would arrest the steady and persistent decline in yields,
estimated to reach at least 30 percent over the next 35 years, due to water-
logging and salinity. It would also bring about a substantial increase in
agricultural production oni the 500,000 fd that would be drained. At full
development, yield increases due to the project are expected to stabilize
at 15 to 35 percent above present levels. The additional production would
enable some increased exports in the case of cotton, onions (which are cur-
rently affected by a disease due to waterlogging) and vegetables or reduced
imports in the case of other products absorbed by the local market.
64.       The drainage component will benefit about 147,000 farm families or
about 882,000 persons, occupying small farms, about half of whom have annual
incomes below the relative poverty level.   At full development of the project
(about three years after Lnstallation of drainage structures for any individual
farmer), the annual net-return of a farmer with a 3.1 fd owner-operated hold-
ing would have increased Erom $745, after deduction of taxes and charges,



- 22 -
to about $963 or 29 percent, while for a 1.7 feddan tenant holding the net
return would have increased from $338 to $451 or 33 percent. Since without
the project crop yields and incomes would decline, these increases understate
the total benefits accruing to farmers as a result of the drainage works.
Without the project, significant declines in farm incomes over present levels
would be experienced. Further benefits would accrue to farmers whose presently
barren land would be restored to production. On farms, the project could
increase labor use by about 12 percent, or 5.0 million mandays per year at
full development, mainly during the harvest periods. An increase of a further
1 million mandays or 4 percent could be associated with the development of
12,000 feddans of land currently barren.
65.       The project would give rise, at full development, to a stream of
benefits whose incremental net economic value is estimated to be some $64 mil-
lion per year, representing the increased crop production realized by improved
drainage on about 500,000 feddans of land, together with new crops grown on
12,000 feddans of reclaimed land (previously unproductive), with a deduction
of incremental operating costs. In addition, the project would arrest declin-
ing production on the same lands, and the net economic value of this is esti-
mated to be $25 million by year 10 and $82 million by year 35, using forecast
world market prices adjusted to farmgate levels.
66.       The economic rate of return from the drainage component which
accounts for $276.7 million or 98 percent of the total project costs, based
on the above benefits and a 35 year project life, is estimated to be 29
percent using the parallel market rate of exchange at the time of appraisal
($1.70/LE). If the benefits were decreased by 20 percent, and simultaneously
both the project investment costs and on-farm incremental costs were increased
by 20 percent, the economic rate of return would fall to 20 percent. The
benefits of the bilharzia control program, which accounts for $5.3 million
or 2 percent of the total project costs, are difficult to quantify, but
are substantial in terms of reduction of suffering and increase in the health
and productivity of the rural population. The control program in Fayoum
(para. 43 above) led to a fall in the incidence of the disease from 46 per-
cent in 1968 to 9 percent in 1974, which gives an indication of the benefits
to be expected from this program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Bank and the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP),
the recommendations provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of draft Resolutions approving
the proposed Development Credit and Loan are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.



- 23 -
68.       Features of the draft Development Credit, Loan and Project Agree-
ments of special interest are described in paragraphs 48 to 55, 57, 59, 60
and 62 of this report.
69.       Additional conditions of effectiveness will be conclusion of the
loan agreement with USAID, and the receipt of evidence that the Borrower has
taken the measures required to ensure coordination between the Extension
Service of its Ministry of Agriculture and EPADP.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development credit and Loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Dev-
elopment credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
May 26, 1976






--WYoP    4 asm
EGYVPTI                 SOCIAL INDICATORS Data SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU ANt)............                                      ..    .........
------------                                     EGYPT                                  REfERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       1001.'                                          MOST RECENT
AR48LE        35.6                         1960       1970    ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES     TtIJKEY         SPAIN
..NP PER CAPITA (USS-10.)1.0                                          200                      .        4510.0      1260.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STAltSTICS
POPULATIONd (MID-YR. MILLION)               25.0         33.3        35.6                 36.9         35.2         33.6
POPJLATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KR.                            26.0        33.0         36.0                123.0         45.0        66.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND                  .        937.0       1001.0                   .        140.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTh. RATE PER THOUSANI            43.0        35.0         35.0                 45.0         36.0 In     19.6
CRUDOE DEATH RATE PER TIIOUSANI           17.0        15.0         13.0                 12.0         13S.0T        8.5
INFANT MORTALITY' RATE (/THOU)          109.0        116.0        103.0                 00.0       145'.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)            51.0        50.0         53.0                 56.0         55.0i        10
GROSS REPROOUCT ION RATE                  2.68        3.            .                   3.32:.6           -b     I.
POPULATION GROWTHi RATE (1)
TOTAL                                     2.4          2.5          2.5                  3.i)         2.5         1.L
IRBAN                                      6.0         3.6          3.5                  4.0          4.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)               36.0         A2.0        43.0                 32.0         09.0         49.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
a TO 14 YEARS                           43.0 lb      44.0            .4 3.0                        418          27.
15 TO 64 TEARS                           s4.o 7-      S2.0           .                  53.0        53:.9        6 2.
65 YEARS AND OVER                          3.0 lb:     4.0           .                   4.0          4. 3        9.7
AGE DEPENDENICY RATIO                        0.9          0.9           ..                  .9          0.9          0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.6          1.7           .                  1.6          1. Lve       1.1
FAMILY PLANNING-
AccEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                .        200.0           .                  0.         484.0 Id
JSERS (Z OF MARRIED 40ONC)                   .                      9.0                   .0          S. 2
ER4PLOY RENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)            7600.0 /c    8300.0 /a b 9500.0               12 300.0    1 4500.0 LE I11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGICULTURE (1)               57.0 Ic      S3.0 L.     47.0                 51 .0        67?.0        24.8a
UNEM4PLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)               5.0          3.0          2.0 Ia               .04.0 f                  2.0L.
INCORE DISTRIBUTI04
I OF PRIVAT: INC3ME REC0 SYT
HIGHEST   51 OF POPULATION                19.2 Id       ....                                         3 2.6 L.
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION                48.7           .             .                    .        606L
L)WEST   20? 37J POPULATION                 .67          ..d.                                         02.9 4, A
LJWEST   4 0  OF POPULATION               14. 1 7d                    ...9. 4 .
DISTRIiLUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED AT TOP 1)1 OF 0WNERS                   .                        ..                             5 3. 0
Z OHNED aY SNALLEST 10? OWNERS                .                         ..                              0. 9
HEALTH AND NUTHITLUS
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 2500   yeti.La            12.0L                 700        22.            50.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             273O.0 T.f 1 640.o       1, I20 J 61970.0                  1860. 0/Li  143 0. 0
POPJLATION PER HOSPITAL WED                5O0.0Th     460. 0       4.60. 0              650.0        490.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)             95. 0        94 .0       100.0                 05.0       1 10. 0      107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   66.0        66. 0        6 9. 0               45.0         76. 0       6 1.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             17.01a       16.0           .                 22.0         22.0 Il.     40.0
DEATH RATE 1/THOJI AGES 1-4                 30.0            ..                              7.0       I15. 0 b6      0.9
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENRDLLMENT RATIO
PRIMART SCHOOL                            66.0        70.0           ..119.0                        111.0        60.0
SECONaARY SCH03L                         16. 0        33.0           ..45.0                         28'. 0       4 9.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(V IRST AND SECDND LEVEL)                12. 0        12. 0        1 2.0                10 .0         1. 0      135.1)
VOCAT10RAL NRAO.RENT
(Z OF SECONDARY)                         22. 0        19. 0        19. 0                10.0/a.b     14. 0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                     20. 0           .        4 0.0                72.0          55.0 Li     9 4.0
DOUS 15G
PERSNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    1.6           .             ..                             1.9
TCCJPIED DW:LLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER                               60.0/h         ..                             66.0 lb      64. 0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(T OF ALL OWE...NlGS)                     38.0/h         .                              205.0 lb     41. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
UI ELECTRICITY-(%)                          ...                       .6.0 lb                        16. 0
C0ASUAPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              56.0        112.0        1413.0               45S.0        69.1)       214.0
PASSENGER EARS (PER THOU POP)                0. 0         4.0          5.0                 6.0          4.0         70.0
ELECtRICITY (KWH/TR PER CAP)               102.0       228.0        230.0                235.0        2414.0      1627.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/TR PER CAP)                    1 .3         1. 0         1 .3                 1 .5 Ic     0. 7         S.6
SEE RI0TES AND DEFINITIONS ON REHIRSE



Pae2of       Pages
NOTES
UoI.es otherwise nOted. data fo- 1960 refar to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, sod for Moa t Rec...t Estimate to 1971-73.
Spa.span au...essfu1 diversification of its econouic structu,re. dogrea of Industrialization and development Of tourism makes it an appropriate
`obJective" country.
EG.YPT              1960    /    1950-55;    lb  Excluding population of amall agglomerations in the fron tier district.;     /.  Figure relate. to parOson
.i. yearsaendaover, excludes nsead population;     Id  1964-65. householde:     I.  1962     7f  Including aauitatnt nurse.
and .idwive.;    /&   1960-62;    lb  urban only.
1970    /   1966;    lb  Relate. to 12-64 year. of age;     In  Registered, not all practi.ing in the coontrv.
MOST RECENT ESTDMTE,    /aR May 1972;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
PHILIPPINES         1970     /a  Public education only;    lb  1967;    Ic   Import. only.
TRKttY               1970    /a  Excludes 17 Eastern province.;    /b   1965-67;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to l.bor force age 15 year.
and ovr;     /d   1964 - jane 1974, 86 percent being IUIDB;   le   15 yearn and over, eacludee unoaplayed;     /f Regietered
only;    /&  Di.posable incom   of household.s;   Lb  Including aoi9tant nurses and otidwivesn     /I  1964-66;
/i. Persona six yearn old and over who tell the censuc taker. that they can read and write.
SPAIN               1970     /a  Regiatered unemployed;  /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
El Pebruary 18, 1976
DEFINMfOKS OF SOCIAL IDIfICATORS
Land Arma (thou km2)                                                                PEntlat     nar nursing Posron - Poplaion divided by numer of practicing
A_2Y    Ttl      srfce area comipriaing land area and inlaLnd watera.                   fVa       mlk.ue grac.ate mniraes, 'trained'! or loartifiede rnwaea, and
Ar.jkb -   Bot recent estimate of land area used temporarily or permanently           auxiliary peranoal with training or experienice.
for cultivation, poatures, market and kitchen garden. or to lie fallow.                         r  oltlbd- PopulatLon divid4k by mnbsr of hospital bed.
a.vailainfl.publiaand private gemeral and'apacialised hospital and
01W Par capita (03*) - 01W psr capita estitmeta at market prices, calcu-               rehabilitation centers; exclude. nursing hoe#amd establielhaants ror
atdbnaeconversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-71. boasia).              custodJIal and preventive care.
PeMo t of calorisa % of E"mant - Coqmuted fr-om energy
P0 utlnat                i; ution andvital statisti                                   aquivsIanFtofnetfrod     UipPliesavla  ble Iin ountry pa  capita per day;
Pu   aonm-,m             io   -As of July first; if not available, average             available supis. coieprias domatic production, iMport. lase exports,
oftoend-year estimates,                                                          and change. in stock; net sfupplies exclude animal food, aseds, quantities
used in fond prmoessing and lassos in diatribution; requiremsta were
Population dnsgity               kme qar  o  Mid-year population per square kilo-      estimated by, PAO baaed on pbyeiological need. for' normal activity,
netr (00  ectres  oftotlara                                                    and health considearing environmental temperature , hDdy weighta, age and
Ppulto      oniy-per squats Inm of arable landl - Computed aa above for                sex diatributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
amble lend only,                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~level.
Per caioa         of    o  n     ampe r da) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                       CA        M       O~0~1          calntopl      of food is defined as
Crud  bith  ateperEthousgndv- Annual live birth. per thousand of nid-              above; require.snts for all cutries established by USDA. gconomic
year populationt sal       ieyo     average. ending in 1960, 1970 and                Research Sarvicea provide for a mdniniumi allowance of 60 gram  of total
1975 for developing countrieR,                                                       protein per day, and 20 groom of animAl and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                 graom should be animal, protein, these standards are lower than thoase of
popuTla~tion  eusully five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975               75 grams of total protein and 23 groom of animal protain an ant average
'or developing countries.                                                            for tim world, proposed by FAD in the Third korld Food Sur~vey.
I,1p.t,,,rtl,,;H teJ/tm)- Annual deaths of infants under one year            PEr cpita poteinsupplfro      -aimal1 andi pulse - Protein oupplv of fond
fghous~and livebirths.                                                           drvdfo not       l and p    seo in grams per day.
Lif   epetan   a   brth(ys)- Averago number of years of life rmnain-          %    ra        uo         14- Annual deatho per thousand in age group 1-1.
Ing  t         ih,s tally 0iv-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                 ae       a       n ~EI in thi.is age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing Countries,                                                       nutrition.
Gr.a rprouctonrate - Average number of live daughters a woman wi.l
bear Xnbeer norma     rproductive period if she experiences present age-           Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               A        eonrollment ratio -        shool - Enrollmeant of all ages as
1970 end 1975 for developing countries.                                                                        OI   F~           n  jincludes children aged
Population, roth rate (%) - total -Compoand annual growth rates of mid-                6-11 years but adjusted for different lenglths of pr~imary education;
yerppltio  for 195 -60, 1960-70, and 1960 to most rwcet year.                  for countries with universal education, enrolliment may exceed 100%
pop lton cmuhrate ()- urbant - Computed like growthb rate of total                     since some pupila  are below or above the official school age.
popuiain    diweent definitions Of urban areas may affect cocara-                  Adxjuted enrolml     ratio ,aecondary scool - Comuted as above; second-
billty of data a     nong cutisayedaion requires at lesatq four yasof approved primary instruc-
Urban population (% of total) - Patio, of urban to total population; dif-              tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
ferert definitions of urbap areas may affect comparability of data                   pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coursaa are generally
among countries,                                                                     excluded.
Age t-c:e, rcen)t) - Children (0-lI. years), working-age (15-64. year.),            Year oYfscooling roiddr(frt and= scnd levels) - Total years of
years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.               sooi;atecnryIel                  Ocaloa    itrut Ion may be partial.3y
AR     dependency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to             or completely excluded.
thoseof ges 5thircugn 61..                                                         Vocational enrolnat % of.secndary) - Vocational institutions include
Ecponoi depenec rto- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and Over                      technical, inus  ria   robr programs which operate Independently or
tthla9o  fome in age   group uf 15-61. years.utl                               Aaatdepartmnts of secondar    institutions
Family planning - acceptors (cuuative, thou) - Cmltive number of                     Adul literac  rat  M%   - Litrate adults table to read and writs) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices uinder auspices of national fanily                centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Folypanning -uers (% of married women) - Percentages of marlried                 H   i
Fomnp. o    if rid-b ing age k15-i4 yearsT who use birth-control d.-                            room.!   r.   aver a.e) - Average nanber of persons par room in occupied
,ices to all married wonen in sane age group.                                        conventio1l dwsjfriga in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Employment                                                    ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Occuped dweblings ,dihout_ oipe jter(-   Occupied conventional dwell-
T7    =  oiEr force  thousand) - Econonically active persons, including                iginubnadr             ralaeas& ehout inside or outside piped water
amdfmsand unmpoyed but excluding housewives, students, eta.;                  facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitioon it. various countries are not comparable.                              Access to electrici t 0 of all dwellinas) - Conventional dwellings edth
Ibrforce in air lcuture    )   Agricultural labor force (in farming,                elec tri.City inliin   qurera as percent of total dwellings in urban
roretnj,hunt nd fi ing) as percentage of total labor fw~ce.                     and rural areas.
On 1pl  ed (% of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons            Rural dwellings connected to electricity M%   - Computed aa above for rural
woare able ant w  lng to take a job, out of a job on a given day,                  dwellings only-.
reomined out of a lob, and seeking work for a speciflied minimum
period not exceeding one week; nay not be comparable between coun-                 c       i
tries due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data,               Rforeceivers aNr thou DO) - All types of receivers for radio brood-
e.g., employnent offi,e statistics, sanple Surveys, compulsory -mu-                  casts togeneral publc per thousand of populition; excludes unlicensed
ploymient insurance,                                                                 receiv,ers in countries and i-n years whaen registration of radio asts was
in effect; data for recant years mey not be oonparabl. since moat conus-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                  triles abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Pa:.e:socare     er ttu  PI) - Passenge    cars comlprise motor cars seating
4.0% of population,                                                                    hce.       b  persons; excludes ambulance., hmeeree  end military
Distributlo- of land ownership - Percentage. of land owned by wealthiest             91    ii            Prcp     - Annual consomption of industrial, comner-
10%  nd  oorst 0%  f lnd owners.                                               cilpbic ad pi"ti          electricity in kilowatt houre per capita; gen-
erally based on produiction data, without allowance for losses in grids
Health and Nutrition                                                                   but allowing f'or imports and exports of electricity.
aPoo      e     sician - Population  divided by number of practicing               !p      .~g     y     s)-Prcitanulosu                 tinnklgam
p  F s c       fqa de from a medical school at university level.                    atlimatedfomdmJsai~  c produiction plus nat impwte of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - EGYPT. ARAB REPUBLIC OF
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974.-  US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Mln.     %                             1960-65     1965-70     1970-73     1974
GNP at Market Prices          10,109     100.0                            6.6         3.8         3.0        3.8
Gross Domestic Investment      1,894      18.7                           11.0        -1.1         8.8       26.4
Gross National Saving 2/          310      3.1                             -           -           -          -
Current Account Balance 2/    -1,584     -15.6                             -           -           -
Exports of Goods, NFS          2,196      21.7                            5.0         1.9        (3/)       (3/)
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,823     37.8                             8.0         1.(        (3/)       (3/)
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added-/                Employment                  V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.   %              Mln.          %                             7S. %
Agriculture                    3,187      34.2            4.21       46.6                757        73.4
Industry and Mining            1,933      20.7            1.15       12.7              1,681       162.9
Electricity                      123       1.3             .04        0.4              3,075       298.0
Construction                     345       3.7             .31        3.4              1,113       107.9
Distribution Sector             1,352     14.5            1.29       14.3              1,048       101.6
Services Sector                21389      25.6            2.04       22.6              1,171       113.5
Total/Average               9,329     100.0            9.04      100.0              1,032       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                   Central/Federal Government
($ Mln.)              % of GDP
19741/         1274        1969-716/
Current Receipts                     2,926          31.6          21.3
Current Expenditure                 3.105           33.5          20.7
Current Surplus                       -179          -1.9           0.6
Emergency Fund 7/                   1,308           14.1           9.2
Capital Expenditures                1,492           16.1          11.7
External Financing (net)              202            2.2          -0.4
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1975 World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
3/ Accurate constant price growth rates are not available due to insufficient information concerning
trade deflators.
4/ At current factor costs.
5/  Preliminary figures.
6/ 1969-71 current receipts and expenditures not comparable with 1974 data because of differences in
methodology.
7/  A Government account for special defence facilities and reconstruction, funded by Arab grants and
earmarked revenue receipts. The operations of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
-2-
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                           1971               7ero                          1974
(Million Outstanding iaeriod)
Money and quasi Money                            1,166            1,345           1,633           2,114
Ulaims on  overnnent                              1,3142          1,469           1,656           2,038
Claims on Non-Government Sector                    549              553             531             7BG
(percentages or Indesx Vumbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                 36.o             39.7            44.9            53.2
Consumer Price Index (1966/67 = 100)              113.6 j1/       117.4           122.4            135.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                               4.0 ./          2.8             4.3            10.0
Claims on Government                              13.6              9.5            12.7            23.j
Claims on Non-Government Sector                    5.0              0.7            -4.0            48.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-74)
1972     1973     1974                                               USL  Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Raw Cotton                          545     40.7
Exports of Goods               813    1,003    1,674             Yarns and textiles                  218     16.3
Imports of Goods             1,286    1 6602/ 3'4282/            Rice                                 73      5-5
Trade Balance (deficit = -)    3       -657   -1,754            All other ccinmodities              502     37-5
Total                      1,338     100.0
Services, Net                    7        7       170
Net Transfers                   295      7272/ 12582/             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account     -I71       77     -326
US $ Mln
Net NLT Borrowing                                                   Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed    2,760
Disbursements              417        362      522
Amortization               294       420       654
Sub-total                  123       -58     -132/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
tther Non-Monetars Capital      21       -13      -53                                                        7
(net)                   -          _
Overall Balance (surplus +)    -27         6     -511               Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed    32.3
Gross reserves                                356
(end of year)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through Januar 1973
US $ 1.oo0= R:043
1.00 = us 2.30
Since February 1973
uS $ 1.00  LE 0.390
1.00 = US $2.56
1/  Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis, figure refers to "fiscal" year 1970/71.
2/ Includes the market value of petroleum grants.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
ED3NA Region
May 1, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE SrATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of April 30, 1976)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                             Less cancellations
Numbers            Year  Borrower    Purpose                     Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR          1959    SCA      Suez Canal Expansion        56.5     --        --
Cr 181-UAR          1970   UAR       Nile Delta Drainage          --     26.0      10.3
Cr 284-UAR          1972   ARE       Railuays                     --     30.0       3.5
Cr S-13-UAR 1/      1972   ARE       Cotton Ginning Engineering   --      0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR          1973   ARE       Upper Egypt Drainage         --     36.0      27.2
Cr.412-UAR          1973   ARE       BOA                          --      15.0      5.5
Cr 423-UAR          1973    ARE      Cotton Ginning               --      18.5      9.1
Cr 437-UAR          1973    ARE      Population                   --       5.0      4.8
Cr S-15-UAR 2/      1973    ARE      Talkha Engineering           --       0.4      --
Cr 484-UAR          1974    ARE      Talkha Fertilizer            --      20.0     14.0
Cr 524-EGT          1974    ARE      Ag/Ind Imports I             --      35.0      5.3
Ln 1062-EGT         1974    ARE      Ag/Ind Imports I             35.0     -       18.7
Ln 1064-EGT         1974    SCA      Suez Canal Rehabilitation    50.0     --      50.0
Ln 1085-EGT         1975    ARE      Tourah Cement                40.0     -       36.9
Ln 1098-EGT         1975    ERO      Railways                     37.0     -       36.9
Cr 548-EGT          1975    ARE      Telecommunications            --     30.0     30.0
Cr 576-EGT          1975    ARE      BOA II                       --      25.0     24.9
Ln 1239-EGT 3/      1976    APA      Alexandria Port              45.0     --      45.0 3/
Totals                                                           263.5   241.1    322.1
Of which has been repaid                                          56.5     0.6
Total now outstanding                                            207.0   240.5
Amount sold                                              7.4
Of which has been repaid                                 6.0       1.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                                205.6   240.5    322.1
B. STATEI4ENT-OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of April 30, 1976)
Amount in
US$ million
Year     Obligor                    Type of Business             Loan    Equity   Total
1976     Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry             4.25      .75     5.0
(plus .635 (5.635)
contingency
commitment)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR.
2/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excluding eichange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April 17,
1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the Government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and to provide effective man-
agement. The major problem facing this project up to the end of 1974--of lack
of local funds--was resolved by allocation under the 1975 national budget.
Adequate local currency has been made available for 1976. Although project
implementation has improved, it will not be possible to recoup all the time
lost and project completion will not now be possible before December 1979.
Procurement is almost completed.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February 9,
1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: (i) September 30, 1976,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the pro-
curement contracts have been awarded, and the bulk of the credit has been com-
mitted. To allow the small balance of some $600,000 to be utilized for purchase
of spare parts for the existing locomotive fleet, the Closing Date for the first
part of the project, originally December 31, 1973, was extended for a third time
to September 30, 1976.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Action on procurement has progressed satisfactorily and bids for major
items have been awarded. Consultants have begun work on the transport sector
survey.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contract awards are being made for cables and bids for telex equip-
ment have been invited.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1975; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The credit was appproved on July 15, 1975, signed on July 30,
1975, and declared effective on February 19, 1975. The first sub-projects
have been approved for financing under the project and disbursements have begun.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19, 1976;
Effective Date:   August 17, 1976; Closing Date:   December 31, 1980.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation.
May 26, 1976



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - SECOND UPPER EGYPT DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit and Loan/Project Summary
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:        Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPAD)
Amount:              Credit:  $40 million
Loan: $10 million
Terms:              Credit:   Standard
Loan: 25 years including 5 years grace with interest at
8.85 percent per annum.
Project             The project works would include:
Description:
1.   (a)  installation of about 50,000 km of buried field
drains of PVC corrugated pipes and 6,000 km of buried
field collectors of cement pipes in the selected
areas totalling 500,000 feddans;
(b) deepening and widening of about 1,226 km of existing,
and excavation of about 346 km of new open drains,
involving approximately 23 million m3 of excavation;
(c) construct:Lon of one pumping station of a capacity of
3.5 m3/sec, including transmission line; and
(d) reclamation by leaching of about 12,000 feddans of
saline soils distributed throughout the area to be
drained including subsoiling and gypsum application
in about two thirds of this area where soils are
alkaline.
2.   (a)  Extension of the Government's bilharzia control
program by about 120,000 fd abutting the existing
program area and between the Asyut and Dairut
barrages.
(b) Financing the cost overrun on molluscicide procure-
ment under the first Upper Egypt Drainage project.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Project Cost and
Financing Plan:
IDA/Bank    USAID  Government
Foreign   Foreign    Local    Total
----$ million---
Drainage Works
Equipment and Materials          17.9       -          -      17.9
Civil Works                      12.3       -       105.1     117.4
Administration                     -        -         11.0     11.0
Contingencies:  Physical          3.6       -        17.4     21.0
Price            11.4       -        62.9     74.0
44.9       -       196.4    241.3
Production of PVC Pipe
Equipment and Materials            -      18.4        0.2     18.6
Production Cost                    -       3.1        2.7      5.8
Contingencies:  Physical           -       2.5        0.4      2.9
Priee                      6.0        2.1      8.1
-      30.0        5.4     35.4
Bilharzia Control
Extension of Area                 0.9       -         0.2      1.1
Cost Overrun on Mol-.
luscicides for
First Project                    4.2       -         -        4.2
5.1       -         0.2      5.3
Total                 50.0     30.0      202.0    282.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Disbursements:
Egyptian Fiscal Year             1977    1978     1979    1980    1981    Total
Project Year                       1       2        3       4       5
------------------$ million-----------------
Cofinancier (USAID)
Production of PVC pipes
for tile drains           9.3    12.4     4.8     1.7      1.8     30.0
IDA credit and Bank Loan
(a)  drainage works             12.8    11.7     7.5     6.3      6.6     44.9
(b)  bilharzia control           3.0     2.1      -       -       -        5.1
Subtotal               15.8    13.8     7.5     6.3     6.6      50.0
Government contribution
(a)  drainage works /1          40.9    55.3    50.8    26.6     28.2    201.8
(b)  bilharzia control           0.1     0.1      -       _                0.2
Subtotal               41.0    55.4    50.8    26.6    28.2     202.0
Total                  66.1    81.6    63.1    34.6    36.6     282.0
/I   Including production of PVC pipe.
Procurement          All contracts for civil works, and contracts for equipment
Arrangements:       estimated to cost over $10,000 will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. Contracts for proprietary items esti-
mated to cost $5,000 or less, totalling in the aggregrate
not more than $150,000 may be purchased off-the-shelf from
reliable suppliers.
Technical            Contractors would train Egyptian personnel in the opera-
Assistance:         tion, maintenance and repair of project equipment.   EPADP
would implement a training program for engineers and tech-
nicians, based on a training center to be constructed in
Upper Egypt by the Government and to be equipped under
the project. No funds are provided under the credit for
consulting services to be secured under the project since
funds for consultancy services are available under the
Upper Egypt Drainage I credit.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:     29 percent on drainage component.
Appraisal  Report:   Report No. 1111-EGT
Date: May 27, 1976
EMENA Regional Office
May 26, 1976



K~~~~~ S 0 i      a             ./^-
j                    /           2 t          t  A     --  ; .  S ArIJ r, 
2~~~~~ 1,Ds9                                               , A RAB 
I~~~~~~                               ~~   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S i\  
I-- y.ci. h2t , i
7~~~~~~~~~~ ~                   - --'-,  ,__  '   .  X _X
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ;41 \+
;      ''                  "-'  y   o'q''9     X   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A/ I' /  I
8    >,              ,   |      ,,,, ~   r       \   ed S&
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e '              S ,c ':
-/5             EGYPT                           -A>,r, Ks-
4",            4.0c.l7 ~404.4.4442-,,...,.,wd.,  '   22--- 
\h   y   -Her~~~~~~d.'ud-~d'4  444s 441a
72   /   /  .7   =f AilN                  s24.4*4.  S  5  , 
,   9   /  t   Cuthd1  C"" ~7              5  
\_ _ _ _ _o _      4  I r .n4lm ao        5 <
'I   3   \   _._  Inhmclws bawmXv   ,rJ, r,,j, ,, , (_, - , '  ""'-r  4



