CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1285 EGT
CREDIT NUMBER 637 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Upper Egypt Drainage II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the As-
sociation) and EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
(hereinafter called the Authority).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Authority agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, th. Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Bank's and
the Association's entering into the Loan Agreement and the De-
velopment Credit Agreement with the Borrower, respectively, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Preamble hereof, in both the Loan Agreement and the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in the respective General Conditions
applicable thereto have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, agricultural, administrative and finan-
cial practices.
Section 2.02. (a) The Authority shall, during the first year
of implementation of the Project, install tile drains with PVC
pipes in an area of about 10,000 feddans for the purpose of (i)
evaluating, on a large scale basis, the efficiency of the equip-
ment used in connection with PVC pipes, (ii) finding appropriate
solutions to technical matters related to the installation and
the operation of such pipes, and (iii) carrying out technical and
costing studies which shall last for at least two years.
(b) In order to assist the Authority in implementing drainage
in the area referred to in the foregoing paragraph and in training
local staff in the new techniques of tile drainage, the Authority
shall employ, as and when needed, for a period of three years, no
less than three full-time consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, the Association and the Authority.
Section 2.03. Except as both the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for
civil works required for the Project shall be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The


﻿-4-
Authority shall take all steps required on its part to award such
contracts (particularly contracts for open drains and the pumping
station) in such a way as to ensure the timely execution of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Authority to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as both the Bank and the Association mmay other-
wise agree, the Authority shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit made avail-
able to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Authority shall furnish to both the
Bank and the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Authority: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,


﻿-5-
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
take all steps required on its part to enable the Bank's and the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods fi-
nanced out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to both the Bank and the Association all
such information as both the Bank and the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Credit so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Authority shall take all steps required on its part
to enable the Bank's and the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Authority and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority shall, at the request of
both the Bank and the Association, exchange views with both the
Bank and the Association with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
(b) The Authority shall promptly inform both the Bank and
the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit, or the performance
by the Authority of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. The Authority shall prepare and present to both
the Bank and the Association for their consent the terms under
which the imported equipment provided under Part A of the Project
shall be made available to foreign and local contractors.
Section 2.08. (a) The Authority shall, within two years after
the date hereof or such other date as the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, complete the evaluation of the effect of
drainage works already completed under the Nile Delta Drainage
Project financed by the Association under a Development Credit
Agreement of April 17, 1970 between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion and under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project on crop yields
and soil properties and, thereafter, continue to carry out or
carry out, as the case may be, the evaluation of such drainage
works and those included in this Project.
(b) The Authority shall, within a year after the date hereof
or such other date as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise
agree, provide the Bank and the Association with a report on the
progress of the evaluation activities which shall include the data
and preliminary analyses thereon.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.01. (a) The Authority shall conduct its business
and carry out its operations in accordance with sound administra-
tive, financial, engineering, and agricultural practices and to
that end shall employ at all times qualified and experienced
management and staff.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing
the Authority shall continue its existing policy for incentives
(inter alia field allowances and annual bonus) to its staff in
order to attract and retain such qualified and experienced person-
nel.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or m ke other provisions satisfactory to
both the Bank and the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. The Authority: (i) shall, not later than
six months after the Effective Date or such other date as shall
be agreed with both the Bank and the Association, prepare and
present to the Bank and the Association for their review a program
for the training of its personnel engaged in drainage works; and
(ii) shall, after review of such program by the Bank and the
Association, promptly establish, for the implementation thereof,
a training center in the Project Area; such training center shall


﻿-8-
at all times be adequately staffed and provided, as and when needed,
with the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Authority shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Authority shall maintain separate records and
accounts for drainage and reclamation works under Part A of the
Project.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts
and financ&al statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as both the Bank
and the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to both the Bank and the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority
and the audit thereof as both the Bank and the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. The Authority shall, not later than six months
after the Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed
with both the Bank and the Association, establish a cost account-
ing system, satisfactory to both the Bank and the Association and
the Authority, to determine the relevant costs of the works carried
out by the Authority under Part A of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Loan Agreement and the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, the Association and the Authority thereunder shall termin-
ate on the later of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall term-
inate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the obligations of the Borrower
referred to in Section 5.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
the terms of such Section.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Authority of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have de-
signated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Authority:
Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects
5 A El-Goheiny Street
Dokki, Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
DELTATILE
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement or under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement or of the
Development Credit Agreement, as the case may be, on behalf of the
Authority may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of
the Authority or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
cated specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on be-
half of the Authority, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement or of Section
2.09 of the Loan Agreement or of the Development Credit Agreement,
as the case may be.


﻿.- 14-
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR
DRAINAGE PROJECTS
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Pank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   The bidding documents for the civil works included in Part A
of the Project shall require that the bidders present evidence of
their previous experience in the relevant field.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for construction and remodelling of open main drains,
land reclamation and buildings will be awarded to local contractors
after bidding on the basis of local advertising and in conformity
with other local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank and
the Association. Such contracts will include appropriate clauses
for: (i) the timely delivery of the imported equipment; and (ii)
the provision of adequate spare parts to such contractors by the
Authority.
2.   Items estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less,
totaling in the aggregate the equivalent of $150,000 or less, may


﻿-17 -
be procured after quotations from at least three reliable suppliers
have been obtained.
3.   Proprietary items estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000
or less, totaling in the aggregate the equivalent of $150,000 or
less, may be purchased off-th--shelf from reliable suppliers.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower or the Authority, respectively, of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Egypt may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower, the Bank and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bi of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported


﻿-19 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank and the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and with respect to all
contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish to
the Bank and the Association, for their comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's and Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 21 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Authority and state the
reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's and the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank and the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank and the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
or the Credit Account, as the case may be, in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Authority shall furnish to the Bank and the Associ-
ation, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank and the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account or the Credit Account, as the case
may be, in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or
of price quotations received, as the case may be, justification
for award and such other information as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. The Bank and the Association shall, if
they determine that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Authority
and state the reasons for such determination.


