CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 637 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Upper Egypt Drainage II Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of a portion of the cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide addi-
tional financial assistance towards the financing of the Project
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000);
(C) the Borrower, the Association and the Bank intend, to
the extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Loan be disbursed
on account of expenditures on the Project only after disbursements
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement are
made;
(D) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Egyp-
tian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (hereinafter called
the Authority) with the Borrover's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Authority a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;


﻿-2-
(E) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
the Bank and the Authority;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
of America, acting through the Agency for International Development
(hereinafter called "AID"), a loan (hereinafter called the "AID
Loan") in an amount of about $30,000,000 to assist in financing a
portion of the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the AID Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and AID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions, in the Preamble hereof, in the Loan Agreement
and in the General Conditions applicable thereto have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Authority" means the Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects established by Presidential Decree No. 158 of
the Year 1973 of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and the Authority of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿(c) "Project Area" means the areas, designated by the Bor-
rower, the Association and the Bank, in Upper Egypt within the
Governorates of Giza, Fayoum, Beni Suef, E1-Minya, Asyut, Sohag,
Qena and Aswan;
(d) "1973 Credit Agreement" and "1973 Project Agreement"
mean the Development Credit Agreement No. 393 UAR of June 8, 1973
between the Borrower and the Association and the Project Agreement
of even date therewith between the Association and the Authority,
respectively;
(e) "Upper Egypt Drainage I Project" means the Project fi-
nanced by the Association under the 1973 Credit Agreement; and
(f) "Egypt" means the Arab Republic of Egypt.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to t"is Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-6-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1,
and August 1 commencing August 1, 1986, and ending February 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Feb-
ruary 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Chairman of the Board of the Authority
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken, in respect
of Part A of the Project, under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) The Minister of Health of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purpcses of taking any ac-
tion required or permitted to be taken, in respect of Parts B and
C of the Project, under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part A
of the Project through the Authority with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices and shall provide promptly
as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for both such purpose and the efficient operation and ade-
quate maintenance of the drainage systems included in Part A of
the Project after completion thereof; and (ii) carry out Parts B
and C of the Project through its Ministry of Health with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and public health practices and shall provide promptly
as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause the Authority to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated under Categories 1, 2, 3 and 7 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement available to the Authority for the purpose of
carrying out Part A of the Project.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or make adequate
Drovision for the insurance of, the imported goods provided under
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that both the post of
Chairman of the Authority and the post of Vice-Chairman for Upper
Egypt are, at all times, filled by qualified and experienced per-
sons on a full-time basis.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take the measures necessary
to ensure adequate coordination between the Extension Service of
its Ministry of Agriculture and the Authority at the national,
governorate and district level, for the purpose of, under this
Project, initiating programs to train extension personnel in all
aspects of the drainage program and formulating joint activities
between such parties.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall make suitable arrangements
to ensure the recovery from users of irrigated land drained by
the drainage works included in Part A of the Project of an amount
adequate to cover both (A) the capital costs of installing field


﻿tile drains in t.e Project Area (plus a 10% administrative charge)
and (B) the operation and maintenance costs of such drains; it
being understood that (i) the portion of the amount required for
(A) above shall be recovered by way of annual installments over
a period of not more than twenty years, and (ii) the portion of
the amount required for (B) above shall be recovered by way of a
land tax which shall be reassessed within two years after the com-
pletion of the drainage works in the Project Area.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the works, facilities
and equipment included in Part A of the Project to be operated
and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering,
economic and financial policies and practices.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than six
months after the Effective Date or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Association, prepare through its Ministry of
Health a plan, acceptable to the Association, for operation of
the bilharzia control program under Part B of the Project.
(b) The plan of operation referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section shall make adequate provision for the technical
supervision of the snail control program under Part B (i) of the
Project by experts acceptable to the Association to be employed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the program for the control of bilharzia under Part B of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall continue to employ a qualified and expe-
rienced program director.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause an effective bilharzia oral drug, acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association, to be supplied only to health
centers and units staffed with appropriately qualified personnel.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall maintain within its Ministry
of Health, a supervision and evaluation unit, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, which shall be responsible for the
overall supervision and evaluation of the bilharzia control program
under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, after the completion of
the bilharzia control program under Part B of the Project, make
satisfactory arrangements (including the provision of funds re-
quired therefor) to ensure the continuation of the measures for
the control of bilharzia in the areas referred to under Part B
(i) of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (i) cause its Ministry of
Health to maintain separate accounts for the bilharzia control
program referred to under Part B of the Project; (ii) cause such
accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; and (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each fiscal year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agree-
ment.
(b) Presidential Decree No. 158 of the Year 1973 or the Law
No. 7h of October 9, 1971 both of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and. adversely affect the ability of the Authority
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the AID Loan, made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the AID Loan Agreement; or
(B) The AID Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the AID Loan Agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement and of the
Authority under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For*the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower and the Authority;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the principal outstanding under the AID Loan Agreement,
shall have been declared, or become, due and payable in advance
of the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Con-
ditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Borrower has entered into the AID Loan Agreement;
(c) the Association has received evidence that the Borrower
has taken the measures required under Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment; and
(d) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled subject only to the ef-
fectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on be-
half of, the Authority, and is legally binding upon the Authority
in accordance with its terms.


﻿Section 5.03. The date October 11, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03, 3.04, 3.06, 3.07, 3.12 and 3.13 of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addres3es
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Cooperation
and the Undersecretary of State for Economic Organizations and
International Finance of the Borrower are jointly and severally
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Pasha Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                Telex:    348
GAFEC
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part A
(1) Equipment for            20,950,000          100% of foreign
Drainage and                                 expenditures
Reclamation
(2) Equipment for               200,000      )   100% of foreign
Offices and                             )    expenditures or
Laboratories                            )    100% of ex-
)    factory cost if
(3) Equipment for               250,000      )   locally manu-
the Extension                           )    factured or 80%
Service                                 )    if locally
procured
(4) Civil Works              20,300,000      )   100% of foreign
(Drain laying and                       )   expenditures,
Pumping Station)                        )    and 25% of local
expenditures under
)    contracts that
do not identify
)    foreign expendi-
tures


﻿- 18 --
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivale-it)   to be Financed
(5) Unallocated                3,200,000
Part B and C
(6) Equipment for                80,000          100% of foreign
Bilharzia Con-                              expenditures or
trol                                        100% of ex-
factory cost if
locally manu-
factured or 80%
if locally
procured
(7) Molluscicides for            730,000     )
Bilharzia Control                       )
(Part B (i)                             )
of the Project)                         )
)    100% of foreign
(8) Molluscicides for         4,220,000      )   expenditures
Bilharzia Control                       )
(Part C of the                          )
Project)
(9) Unallocated                   70,000
TOTAL     50,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit


﻿- 20 -
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal or commitment of the entire amount of the
Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association and the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent re-
quired to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category within
the same Part of the Project and which in the opinion of the Asso-
ciation and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other


﻿- 21 -
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as,
in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is located in the Project Area consists of:
Part A
A drainage and reclamation program including:
(i) drainage of areas totalling about 500,000 feddans
by the installation of about 50,000 km of buried
field tile drains of PVC corrugated pipes and
about 6,000 km of buried field collectors of
cement pipes, and the provision of vehicles and
construction and maintenance equipment required
therefor;
(ii) the improvement of about 1226 km of existing open
drains and the excavation of about 346 km of new
open drains, and the provision of vehicles and
equipment required therefor;
(iii) the construction of one pumping station with pro-
vision for an electric transmission line;
(iv) the reclamation of about 12,000 feddans of severely
saline land by gypsum treatment and leaching, and
the provision of the equipment required therefor;


﻿- 23 -
(v) the provision of equipment and vehicles for the
Authority and for extension services; and
(vi) the provision of technical assistance for the
training of the staff of the Authority in drainage
works.
Part B
A bilharzia control program including:
(i) snail control through a program of regular area-wide
applications of molluscicides in an area of about
120,000 feddans in Asyut governorate;
(ii) provision of the oral drug niridazole to health
centers and units within the 120,000 feddans; and
(iii) provision of materials, equipment, and vehicles.
Part C
Provision of Molluscicides for Part B of the Upper Egypt
Drainage I Project.
T  P  i                                      *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


