DoCUmet Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6174
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
May 7, 1986
Urban and Water Supply Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL UE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S A.
Opa4ta"tmevahuataK,
May 7, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Thailand - Bangkok Sites
and Services and Slum Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion report on Thailand - Bangkok Sites and Servlces
and Slum Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH)" prepared by the East
Asia and Pacific Reglonal Office. Under the modified system for
project performance auditing, further evaluation of this project by
the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a rnnricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in th perfonmne
of their Official duties. Its contents may not otrwise be disckod without World Bank autholation.



FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
BEASCDAASEET ... ................c......, ......e...e...e....e............. ii
BASIC DATA SHEET .....       ......... i
SIHIHS....... iii
:I.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL................P..                2
A-e,    gon--*s-**-+-**ee*¢¢¢*-*--**                                2
A.  Prjc ecito ................ .........  ......... ................... ....    2
IIIA* IM.LMENT .I ... E fe c t i v eno...e.. ee.c. .0......oesoso*oo*.@o    4
A *    E eciees     . cco     e.... .e.c.o.          cc   00c       4
B.  Physical Prgese...  e...  .....  ......                         4
C. Disbrents................ ,..... ...... ....... e...... ..0...... 8
E2  Procurement......e....................... cooeecc   10
F. e................................................               10
G. The Role of the Bank ......................................     11
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE .............      ...... .................   11
A.  Tung Song Hong Sites and Serviceseo.cc....c.e..c..........  11
B.  Slum Improvement Projects.................................   13
V.  INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE....................   14
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .............  o..........                    16
A.  Tung Song Hong Sites and Services ....c...e.e.. ...o.c... .. 16
B. Slum Improvement Projects. o        e.......... ..... ee........eec.....  20
VII.  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ...................                         21
A.  Tung Song Hong Sites and Services.........................   21
B.  Slum Improvement Projects.................................   22
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS    .. ..*...e         e..e. c.o....        23
This documnt has a rektid disibutimona  may be ud by reclpnsn only In th pfoanc.
of thet efflcil dutWs. Its contents may no othwise be diclosed wthout Wold Bank authrztio



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Coatinued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Land Utilization of Tung Song Hong Sites and. Services ...      28
2.  Comparison of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Costs ...          30
3.  Disbursement of Loan from Categories        ....................  31
4.  Responsibilities for Operation of Community
Facilities at Tung Song Hong        ...........................  33
5.  Recovery of Costs at Tung Song Hong        .....................  34
6.  Worksheet for Economic Rate of Return for Tung Song Hong.       38
CHARTS
1.   NHA Organization Chart ..................................      42
2.  NHA Organization Chart as of May 19, 1983 ..... ...........     43
3.  Appraisal and Actual Implementation Schedule ............       44



THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Bangkok Sites and
Services and Slum Improvement Project, for which Loan 1556-TH was approved in
April 1978 in the amount of $8.6 million. The closing date of the loan was
end-December 1983; final disbursement was made in June 1984. An undisbursed
balance of about $1.802 million was cancelled on July 2, 1984.
The PCR was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Projects Depart-
ment aud based on a PCR prepared by the National Housing Authority (NHA) and
other documents including the appraisal report, back-to-office reports, issues
paper, loan and project agreements, project file, NHA's progress reports and
consultants' reports. Extensive monitoring and evaluation exercises conducted
by NHA and its consultants with support from the Bank helped in providing
feedback from residents and in identifying issues for further action. The PCR
was discussed with NHA and government staff during a visit in June 1985 and
their comments have been incorporated in the report. The valuable assistance
provided by the Royal Thai Government and the project staff met during the
preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Government and the Borrower. However, no comments were received
from them.



- 1i -
,POJECT 22VIIU lo? "sic WA £3
~~~~~ stwo No oa
itt                                                       ,_"tou            aot "-tl#e
Total Project coet (u   llion)                                   , 11
bdenu or Ore..  (S)                                                                       4
LewCned1t Asoat (O  stdub1)                                                        __    _    _
Muimeed
)_______
Xao.id        )'                                                                 -*
Dte Ppsical   )
Provtesn   0oe  b(
topetts  el         e     owmt ()-
_samo  bte of bCte, (2)
se2lail ftre   e  *.ee
l tsfItCuCeai Perfogeasee
Orull                                     XActua or
Us                                            gmt, &M- 6
nrt Iet   to. TFt  ora table          's/LWO _2 b_01                                                t
USZ*tC.IO 41t_   I 0                                                         1 0             110   4
LawatUtaiosu  
AuPCttal Au omtDt
ImmIm  *tIoean
ietsoeiaa  II                                          107T.0                                 22W
T glota                                IS     3t7_                                      3A
1su       r    Oet   l ToItobr I0
youellz f Wopct me,e mc
14e?'Itabos~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AII  -I-.    4                      0
/ZdOIOt *NAS
tAsolredt ft        bt t Dat
S~perieic II           91
NO. of        bo. Of
its                    b. ilPers l*oo goor
Tdttfizt"ten 1                81430                           4               1201/4
l_uatfti   1             _   0/5                              tf                            1 
Lepatr;itas  it
p     -an*slArl           0W7                                                             g _   W  
Noper      I=90
Iwt- 4  I                    107              0510.   
Petpprd"J; It / .u.  
ft t-Palse it                                                               e
Sotpervison I                                                 2.0 
6r IS - m is                                  t7 .9
S.pet,b.o III
Saservbas VlI
sepale,*zb o3.
*"=vi2tot al,
supervidim ziCUEfU  ucu     b                       2
8"rvso, v1                     23=dE                                                         x 
COtSQO          ,  111s4      _c,gV211                               U. _                _
Ima of Currency (abbreviation)                                 Bobt
Tears
Apwaial  Tr sweam           1977                             htome St   118  *          20 a
ISCosWSiD  Tero Aveg                                                        uS$I   -     f T -
t   r                  19U                                            WI1 -    _3 !   -



- iii -
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND 3LUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
i.        The project was the first Bank project in the urban housing sector
in Thailand. It was designed to address the housing and employment needs of
lower-income families in metropolitan Bangkok without substantial capital
subsidies. As a pilot project, it was intended to demonstrate the technical
and financial feasibility of new approaches to the shelter problems of
Bangkok's urban poor which could be replicated on a larger scale and to
support the National Housing Autho ity's (NHA) ongoing re-evaluation of its
programs and policies. To this end, the project included (a) a sites and
services development housing about 3,000 families, and employment
opportunities through the provision of commercial and small-scale industrial
areas and business loans; (b) improvement of infrastructure deficiencies in
five slum areas affecting about 2,300 dwelling units and social/economic
support programs; and (c) technical assistance including advisory services,
training, and monitoring and evaluation. The project's main objective of
demonstrating that new housing with appropriate design standards can be made
available to lower-income families at affordable prices has been accomplished,
and it has further demonstrated the merits of improving and preserving the
existing slum housing stock. In addition, implementation of recommendations
of studies supported under technical assistance has resulted in significant
institutional improvement within NHA, particularly in the areas of financial
policies and housing development planning.
ii.       The major problem of the project was a contractual dispute on the
largest civil works contract of the project affecting the sites and services
development, which took about one and a half years to resolve through
negotiation. This situation resulted primar.ly from a series of substantial
design changes called for by NHA in tie contract after its commencement
requiring agreement on new unit rates for the changed works, which was the
subject of the controversy. Because of the significant devaluation of the
Baht during project execution, the additional costs of the design changes and
added works could be absorbed within the appraisal cost estimates (in dollar
terms). To accommodate project execution delays, the original loan closing
date of December 31, 1981, was extended by 2 years to December 31, 1983.
iii.      The physical investments have generally satisfied their intent.
Survey results indicate that residents on the sites and services development
are pleased to have been graduated from their previous renter status to that
of homeowner and have reacted favorably to the site's convenient location and
provision of community facilities. Slum dwellers considered the physical
improvements provided to be successful although the socio-economic programs
have been less well received.



- iv -
iv.       Regarding cost recovery performance,  UHA will recover the appro-
priate costs of the sites and services development from the beneficiaries as
expected at appraisal through housing sales and rental of market areas.
However, cost recovery of the improvement costs in the five slums has proved
to be infeasible. On publicly-owned lands, slum dwellers have resisted
payments for these types of services because other, more affluent residents do
not normally pay for them, and private landowners have refused to contribute
to the program. Recovery of slum investment costs in the follow-on project
has been appropriately pursued on an indirect basis through improvements to
the urban property tax system, and the loan agreement for this project was
amended to reflect this change.
v.        The objective of providing the majority of new housing units to
lower-income families, defined as those below the 50th percentile of the
Bangkok income distribution, has been substantially met, although a signifi-
cant portion of beneficiaries are estimated to have fallen outside of target
income ranges. This is due to a variety of factors including the severe hous-
ing shortage for low and middle-income households which when combined with the
attractive location of the site created keen competition for the available
units; the preference by the lower income families for immediately habitable
housing which was not provided at the site; and the difficulty in verifying
incomes of lower income families.
vi.       The project is generally considered to have been a turning point in
public housing policy in Thailand. The success of the project and the
reduction of direct subsidy support from the Government have permitted NHA to
replicate the project approach to new housing developments on a larger scale
throughout the nation. In addition, the economic performance of both the
sites and services and slum improvement components has proved satisfactory
with a weighted average rate of return of 13%.



THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND) SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I* INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1972, the Royal Thai Government expressed interest in developing
a program to increase the supply of housing in Bangkok, with a particular
emphasis on increasing the availability of low cost housing for the lower-
income families. The growth of Bangkok's housing supply had been charac-
terized by moderate formal sector output catering to the upper and middle-
income groups, a very limited public program and proliferation of inadequately
serviced slums. It had been estimated that if current trends continued, by
1980 there would be a housing shortage of about 160,000 units for households
in the low and middle-income ranges. At this time, the Government was in the
process of promulgating the legislation to establish the National Housing
Authority (NHA), a state enterprise which was to be formed in response to the
deteriorating housing conditions through the amalgamation of four existing
agencies concerned with public housing.
1.02      NHA's initial five-year program (1976-80) was far too ambitious and
called for the construction of 120,000 units in Bangkok, with an emphasis on
the low and middle-income groups. In practice, NUA had completed only about
6,000 units by 1976 which were affordable to lower-income families only
through large subeidies (about 75% on average) provided by the Government,
which thereby seriously limited the feasible scope of the program.
Dissatisfaction within the Government with NHA's heavy subsidies led to
reviews which were expected to result in changes in NBA's pricing policies and
design standards. An important policy change was the Cabinet's approval in
early 1971 of a Bangkok Slum Upgrading Program to be implemented by NHA with
the objective of preserving the existing slum housing stock. On the basis of
a survey or 108 slums, 38 communities housing about 12,000 families were
identified for permanent improvement.
1.03      This project, which was the Bank's first urban housing project in
Thailand, was viewed as a pilot project which would be carefully monitored and
evaluated. It was designed to address the housing and employment needs of the
lower-income families in Metropolitan Bangkok without substantial capital
subsidies. The project was intended to demonstrate the technical and
financial feasibility of new approaches to the shelter problems of Bangkok's
urban poor which could be replicated on a larger scale and to support NHA's
ongoing re-evaluation of its programs and policies.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Background
2.01      The Bank's involvement in the formulation of this project began in
August 1974 when it sent an exploratory mission at the Government's request to
examine the prospects for squatter rehabilitation and sites and services
approaches to the housing problems in Bangkok. At that time, a project was
identified to be carried out by the newly established National Housing
Authority (NHA) to include a new community, sites and services housing devel-
opment, in-town housing and a citywide slum upgrading program. Project
preparation assistance was identified for the feasibility and design work of
the physical investments for which the Bank sought financial support from the
UNDP. It was agreed that the Bank would act as executing agency for this
advisory assistance, and it drafted the terms of reference (TOR).
2.02      Two project preparation missions visited Thailand during November
1974 and May 1975 primarily to firm up the project preparation assistance
arrangements. However, in July 1975, a new Governor was appointed t. head the
NRA who re-examined the contents of the project and proposed the scalithg down
)f the scope of the feasibility work to include one sites and services housing
development, three slum areas, and work in policy and program aralysis. As a
result, a subsequent identification mission was launched in October 1975 to
firm up the project components and redraft the TORs. The following month in
November 1975, UNDP had to withdraw from its commitment to provide funding for
the project preparation assistance due to the stringent budget it was facing
at the time.
2.03      In light of the withdrawal of UNDP's support for project preparation
assistance, the Bank began to explore possibilities for a project which could
proceed relatively quickly and not have to await the sorting out of UNDP's
financial problems. The Bank and NHA agreed on a smaller project consisting
of one sites and services housing development and a small slum upgrading
component, which the NRA staff could prepare with Bank staff assistance. A
preappraisal mission was mounted in April 1976 which was converted to an
appraisal miss:on due to the good progress made with the technical work and
policy issues. However, in August 1976, because of problems attributed to
land acquisition difficulties of the principal component of the project,
subsecuent missions were sent during October 1976 and March 1977 to identify
and prepare an alternative housing development. Appraisal of this revised
scheme was successfully undertaken in July 1977 with two short subsequent
visits to discuss details of arrangements for the project. Negotiations were
held in February 1978 and the loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
April 1978.
2.04      The principal problem encountered in the development of the project
centered around the desired changes in NHA's policies and overall program.
There was a reluctance on the part of the Government and NHA to accept the
sites and services and slum upgrading approaches as replacements for the
heavily subsidized walk-up apartment and slum clearance activities undertaken
at that time without a demonstration of the feasibility of these approaches.
After agreement had been reached on a small pilot project which would be



carefully monitored and evaluated to demonstrate the feasibility of new low-
cost approaches, the initial appraisal mission pressed for major shifts in
NHA's program calling for the majority of its housing developments to be of
the sites and services variety and for upgrading of most of Bangkok's slums.
Although the final project was designed without major policy and programmatic
changes, it was expected that the Thai environment of dissatisfaction with
massive subsidies would bring about the desired changes anyway. This proved
to be the case when in December 1977 the Government suspended approval of new
projects and asked NHA to prepare alternative policies requiring lower
subsidies and a more realistic construction program. The NHA program for
1978-82 approved by the Government emphasized sites and services developments
with core housing rather than flats or fully constructed units and slum
upgrading projects with low-cost improvements in infrastructure, a variety of
socio-economic programs and a small business lending program.
B. Project Description
2.05      Specifically, the role of the pilot project was to:  (a) develop
appropriate design standards affordable by the poor for sites and services
residential developments; (b) support implementation of the initial phase of
the Bangkok Slum Upgrading Program; and (c) provide technical assistance to
support the re-evaluation of policies occurring within NHA. Several years of
discussions with NHA had indicated its unwillingness to undertake a larger
project with more extensive policy and programmatic changes until the
viability of sites and services and slum improvement has been demonstrated in
Bangkok. The project was therefore intended to establish a working
relationship between the Bank and NHA which would eventuate in larger projects
bearing more policy significance. A follow-on project supported by the Bank
has extended the first project on a larger scale to include regional cities as
well as Bangkok, in support of the Government's strategy of encouraging public
investment in Thailand's poorer regions, and has supported a larger slum
improvement program. In addition, it has addressed the problems experienced
in implementation of this project and introduced institutional objectives to
build upon improvements initiated under technical assistance included in this
first project as well. A possible third project is currently under discussion
which is intended to provide programmatic support in an even larger way and to
address deficiencies in the housing finance system.
2.06      The project consisted of:
(a) housing sites and services at Tung Song Hong for about 3,000 housing
units, including (i) land and infrastructure, (ii) core houses with
sanitary facilities, (iii) materials loans for house completion,
(iv) community facilities, (v) commercial and small-scale industrial
areas and (vi) loans to small-scale businesses;
(b) slum improvement at King Petch for about 1,500 dwelling units,
including (i) land acquisition, (ii) infrastructure improvements,
(iii) community facilities, (iv) loans to small-scale businesses,
(v) social support programs, and (vi) improvement of security in
land tenure through the provision of long-term leases;



-4
(c) slum improvement at four other slums affecting about 800 dwelling
units to be undertaken in the second year of the project; and
(d) technical assistance to kHA, including 66 man-months of consultancy
and advisory services, training/fellowships and monitoring and
evaluation of the project. The professional services included
support for the following areas: (i) organization and financial
management; (ii) estate management; (iii) small business promotion;
and (iv) engineering design.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
3.01      There were no special problems in project start-up associated with
the effectiveness conditions which included the execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the NHA and ratification of that
agreement. Effectiveness took place three months after Board approval on
September 22, 1978, which compares well with the originally pLanned
effectiveness date of September 13, 1978.
B. Physical Progress
3.02      Implementation of the various components of the project was
generally satisfactory except for the major contract for civil works at Tung
Song Hong which was the subject of a contractual dispute between NHA and the
contractor and which took about one and a half years to resolve. As a result,
the closing date of the loan had to be extended by two years. Had this
dispute not occurred, the original four-year implementation schedule estimated
at appraisal would not have been unrealistic. The appraisal estimates and
actual implementation schedules are shown in Chart 27349.
Tung Song Hong Sites and Services
3.03      The major problem concerning implementation of the project occurred
as a result of the contractual dispute mentioned above on the largest contract
of the project. the infrastructure and core housing contract, which
represented about 40Z of the total project cost. The problems with the
contract can apparently be attributed to both NHA and the contractor. NHA,*
being inexperienced with this new approach to housing development, called for
a series of substantial design changes after the contract commenced which
created delays in the construction work. The contractor stopped work on the
infrastructure and substantially slowed down on other works in order to
negotiate new unit prices to be applied to the revised works and compensation
for the considerable delays. However, according to the contract, unit rates
for changed works were to be negotiated with the contractor with final
approval by the Governor of NHA, with which the contractor did not agree. In
addition, the contractor was hampered by poor production rates for precast
concrete building components from his casting yard as well as by transporta-
tion and installation difficulties associated with the heavy components.
Steps were taken to rectify this, although not to the point that past delays



-5-
could be overcome. The dispute continued with legal actions expected to be
taken first by the contractor and subsequently by NHA but was finally resolved
by June 1982 through negotiation for additional payment claimed by the con-
tractor for delays and design changes which permitted reasonable, new prices
to be applied to the works involved. In total, the dispute contributed to a
three-year delay in the completion of this work over appraisal estimates.
3.04      The major design modifications which were the subject of the
contract dispute and other changes which were undertaken during implementa-
tion, and discussed and agreed upon with the Bank, are described below. The
additional cost of the design changes and additional works was about B 36.7
m.11ion.
Water and sewer infrastructure. On-plot and off-plot sewer and water reti-
culation required substantial redesign on two occasions, the first occurring
early in the project was in order to: (a) avoid easement difficulties asso-
ciated with the sewer and water lines being placed in the back of the plots;
(b) permit individual sewer connections instead of the 4-unit shared
connection design; and (c) permit individual metering of plots, in view of
objections raised by the Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA) who had
agreed to take over the water supply system. Although the lease agreements
between NHA and house purchasers were originally expected to stipulate the
right of access to the pipe lines in case of repair, the legality and
practicality of such easements were subsequently judged by NHA to be
doubtful. It was felt that the most satisfactory solution was to move
distribution lines to the front of the plots and to provide individual service
connections including water connections according to full MWWA standards.
Arguments in favor of individual meters included recent experience with flat
rate charges in other NHA projects which indicated tenant dissatisfaction and
management problems, and water consumption at another unmetered estate which
suggested that excessive consumption would occur.
The second redesign occurred in June 1982 midway through the contract dispute
period in an effort to offset foreseen cost increases by adopting a combined
stormwater and sewerage system instead of separate systems. In addition to
reducing investments costs, the redesign eliminated much of the need for
pumping and aerating sewage, thereby also reducing system operations costs
subtantially. In order to reduce capital costs elsewhere, the RC cover slabs
were omitted for the U ditch storm drains.
Improvement of Core House Floor Design. Although at appraisal it wes expected
that core house construction would include reinforced concrete components for
the floor, during implementation this was eliminated and compacted earth
floors were to be provided in order to reduce costs due to increases else-
where. However, later on, with the appointment of new top NHA management, the
compacted earth floors were considered inappropriate and reinforced concrete
flooring was reinstituted.
Improvement of Building Foundations. Loading tests during the construction
phase indicated that it was necessary to increase pile lengths for one type of
core house by 2 to 4 meters.



- 6 -
Changes in Land Use and Number of Core Houses. Appraisal estimates of land
utilization and number of houses were based on preliminary designs. As a
result of detailed designs based on accurate site surveys, the actual results
varied, as shown in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2, with a larger number of plots
being accommodated in a smaller area.
Access.  Nonvehicular accessways were redesigned to facilitate their use and
to avoid heavy damage by constructing traffic, mainly by converting the
proposed open side-drains to a closed conduit located under the center of the
accessway.  The closed conduit design incorporated the combined sewer
requirements referred to previously.
Slum Improvement Projects
3.05      The progress of implementation at the King Petch slum lagged behind
schedule due mainly to problems between NHA and its contractor, on the one
hand, with slum residents and landowners, on the other. Initially, there was
little support and participation from the residents which had been attributed
to a number of reasons, including (a) residents' fear because of NHA's prior
involvement in slum clearance that improvement of infrastructure in their
community would lead to their eviction in order to make way for the construc-
tion of flats or high-rise buildings; (b) with funds provided by the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA) some parts of the access network had
recently been improved by the residents wno did not want their work affected
by NHA's improvement scheme; and (c) residents' disagreement with NHA's plan
to recover the costs of the improvements since they believed these improve-
ments were normal government-provided services. The physical improvement
package, in particular, the improvement of walkways, created conflicts with
the affected families whose houses were to be displaced. NHA responded by
dividing this large slum into small action zones in order to facilitate
discussions with residents. Agreement also had to be reached with a number of
public and private landowners regarding the cost recovery arrangements. In
addition, the contractor was inexperienced in this kind of work, which was
difficult to carry out due to the density of the slum area and its poor
vehicular access. For these reasons, the construction contract was late in
award and the period of construction had to be extended. However, as a result
of the experience gained in this slum, works in the four other slums proceeded
much more smoothly with the infrastructure contracts completed within
schedule.
3.06      Another problem facing the project during implementation concerned
the installation of security lighting in the slum areas. The project included
funds for security lighting to be installed in improved slums by the Metropol-
itan Electricity Authority.  MEA, however, had no authority to provide light-
ing to private thoroughfares on private land and were unwilling to set such a
precedent. Security lighting was installed in only one slum (Wat Sroi Tong)
where residents arranged the lighting and agreed to pay the recurrent electri-
city costs themselves, because BMA claimed that it could not pay for the
recurring costs of lighting on footpaths not considered public roads.
3.07      Regarding the water supply improvements to be undertaken in King
Petch slum involving the replacement of old small pipes with new larger ones,



- 7 -
the Metropolitan Water Works Authority, which was to take over responsibility
for operation and maintenance of the improvements, rejected NHA's original
plans, arguing that a more thorough overhaul of the system was necessary
because of the substantial increase in pressures expected when a city-wide
water supply project was to be completed later in 1979. Because the King
Petch slum improvement program's credibility was jeopardized by the repeated
delays in initiating the works, it was decided to award the initial upgrading
contract without water supply improvements. NHA subsequently redesigned the
water supply system to MWWA standards at en estimated cost of B 1.6 million,
and MWWA agreed in principle to absorb the additional costs. However, further
analysis indicated that NHA's designs had several deficiencies (including
alignments under houses). Consequently, the designs were altered again in
July 1979 at an estimated cost of B 2.2 million. In the meantime, MWWA
indeper.dently carried out an improvement of its system in part of the project
area. To avoid further delay, a new agreement was negotiated with MWWA.
Under the new agreement, MWWA was to include the balance of the King Petch
work in a 30-slum water supply upgrading program costing B 43.7 million,
funded entirely by MWWA, and benefitting 84,000 people. Implementation
occurred during 1983-84.
3.08      Regarding the construction of community centers, two centers were to
be built in the King Petch slum. In practice, NRA built only one center and
for the other, bought an existing three-story shophouse instead and converted
it to a community center. The problem with provision of the former arose
during negotiations with residents for demolition of houses required for the
new structure, which required a long period of time and a larger sum of money
than expected. Meanwhile the other shophouse was available with an area ade-
quate for various community activities and approachable by car, which made
access convenient. There were no significant problems with provision of
community centers in other slums.
3.09      Because the slum improvement and sites and services projects under-
taken by NHA were new to the organization, the problems which arose during
implementation described above involving extensive consultation with residents
and coordination with other public agencies who were either to install the
improvements or take over responsibility for their operation after
installation by NHA were not foreseen by either the Bank or NHA. The need to
improve coordination has since then been recognized by NHA. It signed an
agreement for cooperation with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA)
in January 1982 which has already resulted in improvement in coordination
between these two agencies regarding slum upgrading activities. In order to
improve coordination with other public enterprises responsible, for example,
for provision of electricity and water supply, NEA is now expected to reach
formal agreement at an earlier stage during planning in order to expedite
implementation and to ensure a smooth turnover of responsibilities for
recurring operations.
Technical Assistance
3.10      The professional services included under technical assistance were
intended to support NHA's ongoing evaluation through a review of its organiza-
tional structure and management practices, by strengthening financial and



- 8 -
estate management, by developing appropriate standards for project design and
by providing guidelines for the appropriate organization of the slum upgrading
office. Regarding the financing of these studies, the Thai Cabinet proposed
that NHA should seek grant funding from various foreign donor agencies rather
than utilize the Bank loan funds. NHA was successful in reaching agreement
with UNDP for the financing of the total professional advisory services
package. An invitation for application was advertised, and sixty-five firms
applied for prequalification screening. Short lists comprised of four firms
each for services regarding organizational, financial and estate management;
planning and engineering design; and slum upgrading, and three firms for
small-scale business development were prepared with approval from the Bank,
and proposals were invited from the various firms. Three firms and one
individual consultant were selected to undertake the studies and were approved
by the Bank on November 29, 1978. The studies were considered particularly
useful in the areas of planning, organization and financial policies and to a
lesser extent for slum upgrading (para. 5.06). The -eport of the small
business advisor, however, has had no impact on NHA's assistance programs to
small entrepreneurs.
3.11      The training component was expected to enable NHA staff members to
observe similar ongoing projects in neighboring countries as well as provide
opportunities for advanced formal training for a limited number of technical
staff. Work study fellowships were to be arranged to expose NHA staff more
intensively to the management and implementation of slum improvement and sites
and services programs in other agencies of the region. A total of 33 NHA
staff, both high level and working level, attended degree programs, training
and work study programs and observational visits in a variety of subject areas
in Europe, the United States and countries in the region. The courses were
considered particularly helpful in imparting an understanding of the sites and
services and slum improvement approaches to housing development and in
planning and management of these approaches.
3.12      Monitoring and evaluation was to be undertaken on both the Tung Song
Hong sites and services and King Petch slum improvement components, since both
of these were new types of projects for NHA. Studies were carried out as
expected in both areas which produced useful feedback from the respective
residents on the suitability of the physical improvements, the income groups
addressed and the support programs provided as well as recommendations for
improvement in delivery of future projects. As the studies of the slum
projects have been completed for some time now, a number of the recommenda-
tions have already been addressed by NRA in subsequent projects. The final
report for the Tung Song Hong project was issued in early 1985, and NHA
management is currently addressing the issues raised in a number of areas.
C. Costs
3.13      Actual project costs are compared with appraisal estimates of costs
in Annex 2. Several components were under appraisal estimates, mainly slum
improvement works for which no prior experience was available at appraisal,
and several items were over appraisal estimates, primarily (a) sites and
services works, due to design changes and delays caused by the contract
dispute, and (b) the professional services contracts for which the scope of



- 9 -
the studies were expanded during implementation. The total project cost in
baht at appraisal was estimated to be B 344 million as compared to the actual
total cost of B 403.7 million, or an increase of 17%. However, the actual
cost includes charges for the sites and services component for marketing
expenses and interest during construction which were not included in the
appraisal estimates. When these items are excluded and like components
compared, the actual cost becomes B 347.4 million, representing an increase of
only about 1% over appraisal estimates. Overall contingency provisions in the
project were therefore adequate.
D. Disbursements
3.14      Disbursements from the various categorias of the loan are shown in
Annex 3, Table 1. Accumulated disbursements from the loan by semesters
compared with appraisal estimates are given in Annex 3, Table 2. Disburse-
ments took place over a 5-3/4 year period compared to the appraisal estimate
of 3-1/2 years. The delay was due primarily to the contractual dispute
mentioned before on the major component of the project which took about two
years to resolve. The original closing date of December 31, 1981 was extended
by two years to December 31, 1983 to permit disbursement on this component of
the project. The loan account was closed on July 2, 1984, and the remaining
undisbursed balance amounting to $1.802 million was cancelled.
3.15      The fact that the project could not utilize the entire loan amount
was due partly to savings resulting from studies financed from al trnative
sources (UNDP) and devaluation of the Baht during implementation.,A  In
addition, it was not possible to disburse the funds allocated for the building
materials loan program (about US$0.6 million) by the closing date since the
program was not in place prior to that time. A provision has been made in the
follow-on project to provide the necessary funds for building materials loans
required in this project.
3.16      During implementation of the project, the disbursement percentage
for civil works was increased from 55% to 70Z as part of assistance under the
Special Action Program (SAP). This was undertaken to help NRA overcome
budgetary problems which could affect timely payment to contractors. At
appraisal it was expected that the loan would finance 50% of total project
cost, but because grant funding became available for technical assistance
studies and because building material loans would not be able to be disbursed
in time from this loan, the loan amount as a percent of total project cost
dropped dramatically to about 36%. The effect of increasing the disbursement
percentage under SAP was to raise the loan amount as a percent of total
project cost to about 43%.
1/   The Baht devalued to 21 B = 1US$ in early 1981 and again to B 23    lUS$
in early 1982, compared to 20 B = 1US$ at appraisal in 1977.



- 10 -
E. Procurement
3.17      Procurement of the infrastructure and core housing contract at Tung
Song Hong was conducted according to ICB practice as called for in the
appraisal report, but no foreign contractors applied for prequalification and
NHA claimed that a two-month delay resulted from this requirement. The
community facilities contract for Tung Song Hong, which was expected to be
procured through ICB, was subdivided into four subcontracts, one of which was
procured according to ICB practice, and again no foreign contractors sought
prequalification. The remaining three subcontracts followed LCB practice.
Infrastructure civil works for each slum were procured as separate contracts,
rather than one package as expected, according to LCB practice and no major
problems were encountered. The changes to contract packaging and procedures
described above were made in all instances after Bank consultation and
approval.
F. Reporting
3.18      A series of 21 quarterly reports have been submitted in a timely
manner to the Bank beginning December 31, 1978 until September 31, 1983. The
reports were also utilized by NHA management and other departments for mon-
itoring the progress of the project. The progress reports initially focussed
heavily on the procurement and construction progress of the various project
components and later, at the Bank's suggestion, the format was expanded to
include monitoring of disbursement performance, progress of components funded
by other agencies, and performance of social and economic programs as well.
3.19      NHA has prepared unaudited project accounts which were submitted to
the Bank in a timely manner as per the project agreement, but audited project
accounts have been rleeived by the Bank only after about two years of the end
of each fiscal year.-   This was expected for the first accounts of FY79 and
FY80 due to major accounting changes being recommended and implemented under
the financial advisory service contract included in the project. More
recently, the slow receipt of audited project accounts has been due to (a) a
slowdown within NHA in processing of financial information and preparation of
final accounts; (b) a lengthy audit process resulting from the need to resolve
discrepancies mainly in the accounts receivables; and (c) the fact that the
audit of project accounts can only be completed after the audit of the full
financial statements. An accounting firm has been retained by NHA to improve
the processing of financial information up through end-FY83 on a new compu-
terized system, which is now completed. To-date audited project accounts
through 5182 have been received and FY83 and FY84 accounts are expected
shortly._
2/   It is important to note that no material differences have been observed
between audited and unaudited project accounts received.
3/   Unaudited project accounts and financial statements for FY83 and FY84
have been received by the Bank.



- 11 -
C. The Role of the Bank
3.20      The participation of the Bank in the identification and preparation
of the project has had a significant impact on the formulation of housing
policy and implementation of public housing programs. Emphasis on a lower
cost approach to new housing development which is affordable to lower-income
families without massive government subsidies has permitted the replicability
of the concept on a larger scale nationwide. Preservation of houses and
upgrading of infrastructure deficiencies in slum areas has demonstrated the
merits of ugrading versus slum clearance in addressing the housing shortage
for poorer families. Technical assistance supported under the project has led
to important policy changes and has helped to improve implementation
bottlenecks within NHA.
3.21      All components of the project were supervised by the Urban and Water
Supply Projects Division of the East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
(formerly under the Central Projects Department). During the implementation
period, a total of 15 supervision missions visited Thailand. An average of
about eight staff-weeks per year were spent in the supervision effort which is
considered reasonable for this first shelter project in Thailand. The quality
of the working relationships between the Bank and the implementing agency was
excellent.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Tung Song Hong Sites and Services
4.01      The sales performance of the project has been satisfactory.
Initially, NHA advertised for presales of the units during November/December
1979 at which time 9,092 applicants signed up for the 3,043 units. However,
the delay in construction resulting from the dispute between NHA and the
contractor forced NHA to return the application fees to those prospective home
buyers wishing to withdraw their applications, and about 5,000 applicants
collected their fees while the others retained their eligibility. After the
project was completed, NRA re-opened sales from October 1983 until all units
were sold out in May 1984. The commercial buildings, dwelling units and
kindergartens sold in that order. The food market has been fully rented, and
the hawker stalls are scheduled to be advertised for rental beginning in
October 1985. NHA is currently awaiting permission from the appropriate
authorities to market the industrial sheds.
4.02      The performance of home buyers occupying the site has been somewhat
slower than expected, particularly for the poorer families. This is partly
due to the slow start of the building matf7ials loan program and to the
incomplete type of core housing provided._'  Since security of possessions is
a general problem on these types of developments, the home buyers did not wish
4/   The basic core house consisted of two walls, a roof and a sanitary
facility.



- 12 -
to move onto the site until the construction required to enclose the unit,
even if only to a minimal size, had been completed, which was contrary to
appraisal expectations. Only about 20% of households surveyed were able to
complete or extend their houses immediately; the other 80% required building
loan assistance. Because the building materials loan program was not in place
at the onset, many families had to delay the house completion process until
funding was available. After initial delays associated with administrative
problems, NHA has now initiated the building loan program which has
contributed to an improvement with occupancy. As of June 1985, about 70% of
the residential units are occupied.
4.03      Vehicular access to the site was the subject of lengthy discussions
by NHA staff with a variety of other agencies, including the Department of
Irrigation, the State Railway Authority and the Highway Department before and
during implementation of the project.  At appraisal, gyrangements had been
made for temporary access to the site across a klong -  and a railway line
during the construction phase. It was recognized at that time that arrange-
ments for permanent access would have to be made during implementation of the
project and various alte:natives were explored. Permission by the Railway
Authority to use the temporary access road eoired in mid-May 1984. Prior to
that date NHA was able to arrange to use an existing access road (formerly a
private road, now taken over by BMA) serving residential areas south of the
site by agreeing to provide improvements to the road.
4.04      Regarding the water supply system, in the absence of any MWWA water
main in the area of Tung Song Hong, two deep wells were sunk on the site to
pump water which would be distributed through a network to the community.
Following the prevaili4g practice, it was expected that NHA would construct
and maintain the water system until the MWWA system was extended to the area,
planned for in 1985. A connection has been provided to the MWWA system as of
May 1985, and this has resulted in an improvement in water quality previously
cited as a problem by the residents as well as to a reduction in operating
costs.
4.05      The redesigned combined sewerage and drainage system is able to
drain by gravity during the wet season rather than require pumping as was
necessary for the originally designed separate sewerage system. Average
effluent quality is reduced by virtue of the dilution caused by the stormwater
and also to some extent by on-plot septic tanks introduced as part of the
design change. During the dry season, the effluent is pumped to the treatment
plant before discharge to the klong. Economies in construction and operating
costs were achieved as a result.
4.06      Garbage collection is the responsibility of BMA which is being
adequately provided on a daily basis. Since access to every individual
housing unit by garbage truck was not provided for in the project in order to
reduce standards and thus construction costs, collection points were estai-
lished along the roads and the main pedestrian footpaths, each serving
5/   Water canal.



- 13 -
approximately 200 families. As part of NHA's estate management responsibili-
ties, NHA transports the garbage to containerized storage areas close to the
main road for pick up by BMA.
4.07      The community facilities are currently being operated as expected at
appraisal by NHA and other agencies as shown in Annex 4. Although it was
expected that NHA would operate the sewage treatment plant over its entire
life, since there is no central sewerage authority in Bangkok, NHA has reac'.ed
agreement with BMA that it would take over responsibility for the plant's
operation beginning in 1988.
B. Slum Improvement Projects
4.08      The physical improvements provided in the five slums are considered
to be more successful than the socio-economic programs provided to-date.
Based on the evaluation work undertaken, the community residents found the
footpaths to be the most useful improvement undertaken, and water improve-
ments, drainage and fire fighting equipment were also considered helpful.
Regarding the garbage collection improvements, however, in King Petch slum
three container points were built and carts were provided for carrying the
collected garbage to the container areas to be picked up by BMA garbage
trucks. In actual practice, BMA personnel have been collecting refuse from
the majority of households directly, and only one container area is being
utilized by the residents. The other container areas are being utilized as
storage areas for the fire fighting equipment.
4.09      Many of the socio-economic programs provided by other agencies have
had only a limited impact on the communities' residents. At appraisal,
vocational training courses and loans to small business entrepreneurs' were to
be provided by various agencies and the Krung Thai Bank, respectively, in
order to improve the employment opportunities and earnings of slum
residents. In addition, family planning services were scheduled to be
provided by staff from BMA health centers and ither family planning
agencies. In practice, these programs were not completely implemented in all
communities, and in the communities where they tere implemented, the number of
participants in the programs was small. Part of the problem was due to the
difficulties in coordination with the agencies responsible for conducting the
programs which prevented smooth implementation. Requests were received from
the communities for specific programs which NBA negotiated with the concerned
agencies. These agencies may have agreed in principle to conduct the programs
but lacked the staff and budget to respond quickly to specific requests for
assistance. As part of the evaluation work undertaken through the project,
the residents have further pointed out that assistance for permanent employ-
ment was not provided for those who received the training, and the conditions
of the commercial bank for small business loans, particularly the requirement
of personal guarantors, were difficult for most slum dwellers to fulfill. In
addition, the borrowers themselves were not well guided as to what occupations
they should take up.
4.10      Since these first projects were undertaken by NHA, coordination with
other agencies has improved significantly, and the socio-economic programs in
subsequent projects have been more successfully implemented. The particular



- 14 -
problem regarding the small business loan program has been addressed under the
follow-on project supported by the Bank. Under that project, the Government
has provided funding of Baht 2.5 million for a guarantee scheme under which
qualified prospective borrowers who have difficulty securing personal
guarantors as required would be able to secure loans for a small guarantee
fee, and NHA would guarantee the loan repayments. This has helped to improve
the attractiveness of the small business loan program, as 231 loans totaling
Baht 2.015 million have been advanced to slum community residents between
August 1979 and March 1984. This is considerably more than the 66 loans
totalling Baht 0.642 million advanced under this project.
V. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE
5.01      NHA was the principal executing agency for the project.  Each major
project component was implemented by project teams drawn from NHA's various
divisions under the overall direction of the Director of the Research and
Construction Department (now called the Construction Department), the
designated Project Manager. The Project Manager was assisted by a deputy, the
Director of the Office of Policy and Planning. Execution of the sites and
services component was carried out by staff from the Research and Construction
Department and staff seconded from the Office of Policy and Planning, and the
procurement of consultants for professional services was 'he responsibility of
the Office of Policy and Planning.
5.02      Slum improvement projects were a new type of development undertaking
for NHA, and thus a team to plan and execute the project had to be recruited
from various units within NHA. A slum upgrading office was established in
April 1977 initially as part of the Research and Construction Department
consisting of 18 staff including architects, lawyers, enginr-   "nd social
workers.  It was expected that the experience gained from t'  ..nagement of
this project would enable the staff to effectively carry out other future
development projects. The relatively successful execution of the slum
improvement projects in these five communities resulted in the establishment
in October 1982 of the separate Slum Upgrading Department with 104 staff
members working on the social and physical development plans in about 70 slum
communities accommodating 21,000 households.
5.03      Between the time of project start-up and end-1983, NHA's administra-
tive structure had been reorganized on two occasions. Due to Government's
re-evaluation of NBA's overall program and subsidy requirements in 1979, the
Office of Policy and Planning was established to review planning and financial
requirements. In addition, the first slum improvement unit was established
initially as a division in the Research and Construction Department, which
subsequently became the Slum Upgrading Office mentioned before. Community
administrative offices were also established under the direction of the Estate
Management Department to take charge of community services, and the Research
and Construction Department was divided into five project implementation
divisions.
5.04      After this organizational structure was put into effect, it was
determined that too many divisions were included in each department which



- 15 -
resulted in ineffective administrative procedures. For this reason, in 1982
NHA reorganized its administrative structure and established eight depart-
ments. The Research and Construction Department was separated into two
departments for construction projects and construction services. The former
Slum Upgrading Office was reestablished as the Slum Upgrading Department.
Also, a new departmental agency wis organized and officially called the Center
for Housing and Human Settlements Studies. This organizational structure has
been in effect until to-date. The comparative organizational charts as of
December 1978 and today are presented in Charts 1 and 2.
5.05      Regarding the size of NHA's work force, in 1976 when NHA's target
output of housing units was 24,000 per year, its work force was increased to
1,428; in 1978, to 2,378 and in 1979, to 2,538. Since then its establishment
remained frozen and in 1983 the staff decreased to 2,413. Analysis of NHA's
work force structure shows that the expansion of staff was disproportionate to
its production growth rate which resulted in overexpenditure on overheads and
ineffective use of manpower. During the project period, the year of maximum
output for NHA was 1980 when about 12,000 new units were constructed and 4,500
slum units were upgraded. Given NHA's actual and expected output, its
staffing level should not be permitted to increase in the near future.
5.06      Under the technical assistance component of the project, a number of
consultant studies were included to address key issues of organizational
structure, management, finance and technical development of sites and services
and slum upgrading approaches. The loan agreement called for the implementa-
tion of study recommendations as agreed with the Bank, and a number of signi-
ficant improvements have been made, particularly in the areas of financial
policies and housing development planning. Some of the important achievements
of the organizational and financial management contract include the following:
(a) establishment of a Management Coordination Group (MCC) to review and
develop policies and procedures and monitor implementation of NHA
activities. The MCC has been utilized to consider interdepartmental
issues, and the current manager of NHA has introduced a higher level
"Top Team" approach to carry out these functions;
(b) adoption of a new accounting system and procedures to enable the
reporting of the financial results of each NHA activity separately;
(c) employment of the recovery of appropriate costs for new housing
developments previously subsidized, which has contributed to a
positive operating position since 1982;
(d) introduction in 1979 of a policy of zero-growth staff increase in an
effort to control operating costs;
(e) turnover of responsibilities for operation and maiJtenance of
infrastructure and fAcilities provided on housing estates to
appropriate agencies, previously contributing to losses on NHA's
operations;
(f) increases of very low service charges and rents in old projects;



- 16 -
(g) raising of interest rates on loans for house purchase to prevailing
market interest rates; and
(h) elimination of new rental housing construction which required sub-
stantial government subsidies.
In addition, the engineering design advisor introduced sophisticated computer-
ized planning tools whtich permit NHA to evaluate in a very short period of
time a variety of site plan alternatives and the resulting impact on
residents' affordability. Progress within NHA has to-date been gradual but
steady and compares well with progress of other urban service delivery
institutions with which the Bank has been associated in Thailand.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Tung Song Hong Sites and Services
Cost Recovery
6.01      Maximum cost recovery for the sites and services scheme was
emphasized at the onset to demonstrate the project's financial viability. The
general approach adopted in this project was for all costs normally borne by a
developer in a private housing scheme to be passed on to the beneficiaries.
Other expenses that are normally incurred by government agencies in support of
private housing schemes were borne by the Government.
6.02      The capital items and amounts charged to 6he beneficiaries of the
development in the form of hire purchase payments - or rents, as estimated at
appraisal and in actual practice, are compared in Annex 5, Table 1. From the
table it can be seen that NHA employed cost recovery to a greater extent than
envisaged at appraisal since it added interest during construction charges and
marketing costs to the items to be recovered, which amounted to about 98% of
total development costs (excluding schools). At appraisal it was agreed that
the land cost to be charged would be the purchase price of the site when
acquired in 1966 without an adjustment to the market price prevailing at that
time. This represented a subsidy to the beneficiaries since final sales
prices were not adequate to recover the entire cost of the current market
value of the land. In development of a third possible loan to NHA, it has
been agreed in principle that NHA would price the land of future sites at
current market value to eliminate any possible implicit subsidies on land.
6.03      Regarding the recurring costs of operation and maintenance of the
development, estate management fees are charged to the residents and commer-
cial and industrial users, as expected at appraisal, to cover all the costs
6/   Similar to a mortgage except that NHA retains ownership of the property
until it is paid in full by the purchaser.



- 17 -
associated with estate management, and operation and maintenance of infra-
structure and facilities provided, to the extent that these costs are not
recsvered through user charges levied by other responsible authorities.
Currently the fees provide for the recovery of all costs of administration
including expenses associated with the area office, operation and maintenance
of roads, footpaths, street lighting, sewerage, public park and security of
the estate. However, rather than provide these services over the liie of the
development as expected at appraisal, NHA is taking steps to gradually turn
over the responsibilities of estate management to the concerned local govern-
ment agencies and to the occupants, to help overcome the operating deficits
associated with estate management which NRA has experienced in the past. NHA
has calculated the service fees on the assumption that turnover of responsi-
bility for all services would occur within five years. The service fee ranges
from B 140-350 per month depending on the use and location of plot and is
added to the hire purchase payment, so that residents make only one payment to
NHA per month.
6.04      Tariffs levied by MWWA and MEA currently provide for the recovery of
water supply and electricity costs in line with levels elsewhere in the city.
6.05      The financial burden associated with completion of the core house
has proved to be very great especially for the poorer families who have had to
continue to rent elsewhere while construction for house completion has been
underway. At the same time, the residents were expected to make hire purchase
payments and payments for building materials loans. This heavy burden during
the house completion phase has resulted in a larger numbpr of accounts in
arrears than normal, i.e., estimated at about 30% versus 10% for NHA's overall k
accounts. To help ease this problem, it has been recommended that a grace
period be provided in the repayment terms for the builtding materials loans.
However, this situation is viewed as a temporary problem, because NHA retains
ownership of the units until they are paid in full under the hire-purchase
agreements, and therefore it is expected that payment performance would
improve as the residents move onto the site in order not to risk legal action
by NRA.
Terms of Loans
6.06      A comparison of terms of loans to purchasers or rentors of the
various plot types expected at appraisal and in actual practice are presented
in Annex 5, Table 2. The lower than expected down payments required on resi-
dential properties (4.0-9.5% versus 10% agreed at appraisal) have proven
problemmatic for NHA. In determining the amount of building materials loans
required in most cases for house completion for the various core types, it was
discovered that the amounts required in most cases exceeded the down payment
levels. This meant that the total loans (both hire purchase and building
materials) to be provided by NHA needed to be greater than the unit value, and
in the case of default, NHA would be in a position to lose more than it might
be able to recover due to the lack of collateral on the excess amount. NHA
has agreed to provide sufficient amounts as loans for biilding materials, but
in order to reduce the risk of default, the loans would require two
guarantors. The building materials loans currently being advanced average
about Baht 13,000 per unit and are to be repaid over 10 years at an interest



-18-
rate of 15%. For future projects, it is recommended that NHA require a
minimum down payment level of 20%. Based on experiences elsewhere, lower
income families have demonstrated that they can mobilize t4e necessary funds
from a variety of sources. NHA should encourage the prospe;ctive buyers to
establish savings accounts in advance of project sales to build up funds for
the required down payments.
6.07      At the Bank's suggestion based on experiences elsewhere, the build-
ing materials loans are being made on a cash basis only, rather than on both a
cash and materials basis, as suggested at appraisal. This was revised for a
variety of reasons including (a) loans in the form of materials have resulted
in high administrative costs for the concerned agencies; (b) these types of
loans encourage overly high building standards; .(c) they may not make avail-
able materials desired by residents; and (d) theft and stock-outs of certain
aaterials have been serious problems. Cash loans provide greater flexibility
for the residents which is expected to result in a more productive use of the
resources made available. A number of private vendors have set up construc-
tion materials shops on the site which is convenient for ho'meowners wishing to
complete the units on a "self-help" basis and for others wishing to purchase
materials of known quality to be utilized by contractors.
6.08      Since market interest rates 'i on loans for house purchase have
increased from 12% at the time of appraisal to 15% at the time of application,
NHA chose to charge 15% on-this development, which was agreed with the Bank.
This is fully in keeping with the recommendation of the financial idvisory
services contract supported under the project which identified steps to
improve NHA's financial performance.
6.09      Since the industrial plots on the sites and services development
have not yet been sold, the execution of the small business loan program has
not yet commenced. It is expected that the Krung Thai Bank would provide the
loans up to a limit of Baht 10,000 per recipient for a total of Baht 400,000
as agreed at appraisal to be repaid at 15% interest rate.
Affordability
6.10      In spite of the higher development costs, higher interest rates on
housing loans and the employment of cost recovery to a greater extent than
anticipated at appraisal, the final actual sales prices were fount/to be
affordable to about the same percentage of lower income families - as
predicted. At appraisal it was expected that about 87% of the residential
units would be affordable to this group, and in comparison, the final results
show that about 95X of units met this income test. This is due to the fact
that household incomes grew at a faster rate over the implementation period,
which was longer than expected due to the contract dispute, than the combined
effect of the other increases contributing to higher sales prices.
7/ As charged by the Government Housing Bank.
8/   Defined as families below the 50th percentile of the Bangkok Metropolitan
income distribution.



- 19 -
6.11      It is difficult to determine the market value of the units sold at
Tung Song Hong because no other incomplete core houses have been sold in
Bangkok previously. It has been estimated that the units were priced at near
market values. The relatively low level of purchase by investors (estimated
at about 10%) and the fact that NHA required about eight months to sell the
units would tend to indicate that they were not substantially underpriced.
The sales prices are sufficient to provide adequate revenues to cover the
chargeable costs of the development plus provide a profit. Only the open
plots provided along inner roads were cross-subsidized out of profits
generated elsewhere on the development to lower their sales prices to more
affordable levels. A summary of the actual costs, sales prices, affordability
ranges, and markup and cross-subsidy results are presented along with the
income distribution data in Annex 5, Tables 3 and 4, respectively.
6.12      Survey results on a sample of 220 resident households occupying all
five types of residential units indicate that about two-thirds of those
selected had incomes falling within the target groups established by NHA and
about one-third of all households exceeded the income limits established. The
results of the survey are presented below:
Unit Type           Type A    Type B    Type C    Type D    Type E        Total
Income               4,000     5,000      6,000      7,000     9,000
Ceiling (B/mo.)    No.   Z   No.   X   No.   X   No.   Z   No.   Z    No.   X
Fall within
target group      43   51.8 57   67.9 21  67.7  13  76.5   6 100.0  140  63.6
Fall out of
target group      42   48.2 24   32.1 10  32.3   4  23.5   -    -    80  36.4
Total           85  100.0 81  100.0 31 100.0  17 100.0   6 100.0  220 100.0
The highest deviation was reported for those purchasing the cheapest units of
which somewhat less than half were over the prescribed limit. These results
are attributed to several factors including (a) the shortage of housing in
Bangkok for low and middle-income households; (b) the highly desirable loca-
tion of tha site which when combi'ed with the excess demand for housing
created keen competition for the asvallable units; (c) the preference by the
lower income families for completed units which were immediately habitable
because of the heavy financial burden associated with incomplete housing; and
(d) the difficulty in verifying incomes to establish eligibility for units due
to the self-employed and temporary nature of earnings of many of the home
buyers. The best wsy to ensure that the appropriate income groups are
selected would be to provide housing with standards low enough and in suffi-
cient quantity to meet the demand. In this case, the standards were probably
low enough, but the project scale of about 3,000 units could only begin to



- 20 -
address the housing shortage. Thus, the supply of shelter to lower income
groups cannot be isolated from the issue of housing in the country as a
whole. Appropriate approaches, particularly in addressing deficiencies in the
housing finance system, must be developed to assist middle income families at
the same time to help avoid encroachment on the lower income housing
developments.
B. Slum Improvement Projects
Cost Recovery
6.13      The costs of slum improvement capital expenditures not recovered
through tariffs levied by other agencies including footpaths, drainage,
garbage carts and bins and fire fighting equipment were to be recovered
directly through increased rents from slum dwellers on government-owned lands
transferred to NHA and through voluntary contributions from private land-
owners. It was recognized from the onset that cost recovery would be adminis-
tratively and politically difficult. In practice, direct cost recovery proved
to be infeasible. Private landowners generally refused to contribute to the
program, and there has been persistent resistance from tenants on public land
to direct payments for these types of services because other, more affluent
residents do not normally pay for them. Furthermore, although adjustment of
leases served as a mechanism for providing longer term tenure (15 years) as
well as recovering costs, residents in slums on government-owned lands did not
feel insecure even if they had only short-term leases. Also, arrangements for
securing long-term leases for residents on private lands were not successfully
achieved. It was recognized that even if increased rents were a feasible cost
recovery mechanism for slums on public lands, the applicability of this
approach to a citywide program would be limited because most slums in Bangkok
are on private lands.
6.14      Under these circumstances, the Bank and NHA changed the approach to
to rely on the overall system of urban public finance to support the slum
improvement program. This approach was considered particularly appropriate in
Bangkok since virtually all of the slums existing at that time suitable for
improvement could be upgraded by the mid-1980s at costs which would represent
a miniscule portion of total capital investment in the city. For example, NHA
estimated that seven key public agencies had t ial capital expenditures in
Bangkok of approximately $218 million in 1978._ L, comparison, the cost of
footpaths, drainage and garbage carts and bins in one year of a slum improve-
ment program affecting 4,000 families annually would be about $1.9 million in
December 1979 prices.
6.15      The follow-on project, which included a larger slum improvement com-
ponent, sought recovery of the costs of the slum program on an indirect basis
through improvements to the property tax system and its administration in
9/   The agencies are B1tA, NHA, MWWA, MEA, the Telephone Organization of
Thailand, the Highway Department and the Expressway and Rapid Transit
Authority.



- 21 -
Bangkok. Thus it was agreed that NHA would undertake the physical improve-
ments with funds provided by the Central Government on a grant basis, and the
BMA would recover the costs through the property tax system. As a result, the
cost recovery covenant under this project was amended to reflect this change,
and funds which had previously been passed on by the Government to NHA as
loans (about B 9 million), with the expectation that costs would be recovered,
were converted to grants. In addition, public lands which had been trans-
ferred to NMA for the purpose of providing long-term tenure and increased
rents were subsequently returned to the public owners.
6.16      Water tariffs levied by MWWA on slum dwellers provide for the
recovery of the capital and recurring costs of the water supply improvements
in line with levels elsewhere in the city.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. Tung Song Hong Sites and Services
7.01      In re-evaluating the economic rate of return for the sites and
services component, essentially the same methodology employed at appraisal was
utilized for the analysis. The actual costs of land filling, site prepara-
tion, on-site and off-site infrastructure, core housing, labor and materials
to complete core housing and commercial, industrial and community facilities
were Is7luded in the analysis, which were adjusted to exclude the taxes ele-
ment.'   The cost of land, which was purchased J  1966, was priced at its
current market value of about B 400,000 per rai,_-/ compared to the original
purchase price of about B 57,000 per rai. Although not included in the
appraisal calculation, the estimated future operation and maintenance costs
and NHA overheads were considered in the cost stream. The actual costs were
inflated to represent prices in 1984 which served as the base year. The
Thailand statistics for annual increases of construction materials, labor,
machinery and equipment were used to compute an index for converting the
actual costs to constant prices (see Annex 6, Table 1). Costs, as well as
benefits, were considered over a 30-year period.
7.02      Benefits for the housing, commercial and market areas of the
development were based on imputed rental values of the units. A survey
carried out by NHA in 1984 was undertaken of a variety of dwelling types in
the vicinity of Tung Song Hong. On the basis of these results, the imputed
rental values of the project units were estimated considering the unit sizes,
quality of construction and services provided. For the community facilities
and the industrial areas, actual sales prices which were set at market values
were used as the measure of economic benefit. On the basis of these
assumptions, which are shown in Annex 6, Table 2, the economic rate of return
10/ Using the Bank construction conversion factor for Thailand of 0.88.
11/ 1 rai = 1,600 square meters.



- 22 -
was calculated to be 13%, which compares well with the appraisal estimate of
15%.
7.03      The sites and services component of this project focussed on a
sector where new and less costly approaches were required. Prior to the
project, the public housing program was heavily subsidized by the Government,
which proved to be a severe financial burden on the Government. The project
was successful in demonstrating the viability of a lower-cost solution and as
such acted as a turning point toward a new housing policy by which the resi-
dents pay directly for the cost of housing development while the Government
minimizes its support. The project has had a significant influence on NHA's
financial policies particularly regarding cost recovery and on the type of
projects it undertakes. The stress on low-cost housing construction
techniques and careful monitoring and evaluation provided the experiences
required for better designs and improved community relations in future
projects.
B.  Slum Improvement Projects
7.04      As with the sites and services component in calculating the ex-post
rate of return, essentially the same methodology employed at appraisal was
utilized for the analysis. The actual costs of the physical improvements,
including compensation for relocation, construction and upgrading of access
and drainage, water supply improvements, and provision of garbage disposal
bins, carts and fire fighting equipment were included in the analysis.
Although not included in the appraisal calculation, the cost of the community
facilities, the estimated future maintenance costs and NHA overheads were
considerle,in the cost stream. All costs were adjusted to exclude the taxes
element.     The actual costs were inflated, as with the sites and services
component, to represent prices in 1984 which served as the base year. Costs,
as well as benefits, were considered over a 15-year period.
7.05      The economic benefits of the slum improvement component are primar-
ily improved health and environmental conditions and the consequent increased
productivity. These benefits, however, are difficult to quantify. Increases
in imputed rental ,alues of properties resulting from the provision of infra-
structure has been used to estimate the benefits. Based on estimates by NHA,
the current differences in rents paid in improved slums versus unimproved
slums averages about B 230 per dwelling monthly. About 3,704 families resid-
ing in about 2,300 units have benefitted from the improvements in the five
slums. Based on these assumptions, which are shown in Annex 6, Table 3, the
subproject produces an economic rate of return of 11%, which is less than the
appraisal estimate of 24% due primarily to the inclusion of other items in the
cost stream not considered at appraisal.
7.06      The slum improvement component has upgraded the living conditions of
residents, particularly improving environmental sanitation, health conditions,
access and drainage at a relatively modest cost (US$36 per capita). As stated
12/ Using the Bank construction conversion factor for Thailand of 0.88.



- 23 -
before, the socio-economic programs have not been as successful as the
physical investments, but the problems with the programs have been largely
resolved under subsequent projects. The improvement of slums on government-
owned lands has generated demand for improvement of slums on private lands as
predicted at appraisal. The Government has supported developments in these
areas on a larger scale under the second Bank loan. Lessons learned through
the monitoring and evaluation work have established the importance of
community participation and public relations for a successful slum improvement
program.
7.07      The weighted average economic rate of return for the sites and
services and slum improvement components is 13% compared to 16% at appraisal.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. Conclusions
8.01      This project represented the Bank's first effort in the shelter
sector in Thailand. It is viewed to have successfully achieved its major goal
of demonstrating that through the provision of appropriate design standards,
new housing can be provided to lower-income families which is affordable while
at the same time, the majority of investment costs can be recovered. Survey
results indicate that residents at Tung Song Hong are particularly pleased to
have graduated from their previous renter status to that of homeowner, and
they have also reacted favorably to the site's convenient central location and
its community facilities. The project has also demonstrated the desirability
of preserving and improving the slum housing stock, which is generally of good
quality, through the provision of better infrastructure and facilities at a
low cost per unit to help ease the housing shortage facing families in the
lower income ranges. The phvsical investments have been reasonably successful
in fulfilling the purposes for which they were built. In addition, technical
assistance has resulted in a number of significant policy changes which have
contributed toward an improvement in NHA's ability to carry out its public
housing program and reduce its dependency on the Government for subsidies.
8.02      Not only has the project become the basis of public shelter policy
in the country, but other aid agencies have participated in similar projects
(i.e., USAID and ADB). A follow-on project has addressed many of the problems
encountered in this project and has expanded the experience to regional
cities. A third project is currently under discussion which should support
NHA's program on an even larger scale nationwide and address further the
financial and technical aspects of NHA's work.
B. Lessons Learned
Pilot Approach
8.03      The pilot approach rather than an approach requiring major reforms
as attempted during project preparation is considered to have been appropriate
and sensible for this first project in Thailand. Particularly when dealing
with agencies which are skeptical of such completely radical changes as those



- 24 -
being proposed in this project, a demonstration effect of the viability of the
new solutions should be fully tested and visible before realistically expect-
ing major shifts in an entity's program and policies or acceptance by the
central government policymakers. First projects should be kept relatively
small and the expectations for institutional changes and development should be
kept modest. Only through a series of projects which build upon the
experiences of past projects can the Bank expect to have a significant impact
on the direction and policies of an entity and sector.
Contract Disputes
8.04      The major problem of the project was the contractual dispute on the
largest contract of the project which resulted in considerable time delays and
highlighted the inexperience of NHA's planning, procurement and construction
management approaches. Key factors in the dispute were: (a) inadequate con-
tract document preparation in terms of lack of detailed topographic and soils
survey data for final design purposes (which led to significant layout
changes) and ambiguous contract language (which led to difficulty in interpre-
tation of the respective rights and obligations of the contract parties);
(b) inappropriate technology in the form of the precast component system opted
for by the contractor which suffered severe production and installation
difficulties and consequently contributed to an adverse cash flow situation
for the contractor; and (c) inexperience among Mil staff in dealing with the
required physical, financial and conditional variations to the contract in the
context of the contract provisions and the unconventional methods used by the
contractor. The dispute was resolved, following extensive negotiations for
additional payment claimed by the contractor for delays and additional works,
mainly through a redesign of the drainage and sewerage works which permitted
reasonable, new prices to be applied to the works involved.
8.05      NHA has taken steps to avoid future occurrences of the sort suffered
at Tung Song Hong. Designs are now based on better survey data and conven-
tional technology. Contract documents have been strengthened to clarify the
respective rights and obligations; adoption by NEA of the standard documents
prepared recently by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Bank and
ADB should further improve ICB and LCB procurement and contract agreements.
NiHA's construction management and the experience of its staff in sites and
services type construction have improved significantly. Moreover, in order to
reduce the impact of any contract dispute in the future, on large housing
developments of 2-3,000 units or more (primarily in Bangkok), NHA will divide
the civil works contract for infrastructure and housing into smaller packages
of 1,000 units or less so that individual delays due to disputes or any other
reason would not jeopardize the entire development as under this project. NHA
has already employed this approach in the follow-on project supported by the
Bank.
Incomplete Core Housing
8.06      Although all new core housing units have sold in this project and
are likely to be fully occupied soon, the concept of incomplete core housing
has proven not to be totally appropriate for lower-income families in Thailand
and is generally unacceptable to central and local government officials and



- 25 -
NHA management. As stated before, the financial burden is too heavy for the
poorest families who must rent elsewhere during the house completion and
build-out stage. The monitoring and evaluation results undertaken to-date on
a sample of residents indicated that they felt a complete house would have
been less expensive for them then finishing the house themselves. One
explanation for this unexpected finding was that when the residents hired
contractors as most did to perform housing extension and completion of cores,
the contractors often "cheated," spending more than they should have and/or
buying low quality materials. Also, the building materials loan program has
been problematic and has created an administrative burden for NHA.
8.07      The follow-on project has been modified to eliminate these types of
units and to provide both small, complete core houses for the poorer families
which are immediately habitable and fully serviced open plots for upper income
families. The additional cost of the completed core unit over the incomplete
core unit plus building materials loans is expected to have only a marginal
effect on the cost and the affordability levels of the prospective home
buyers, and elimination of the materials loan program would reduce
administrative costs for NHA. An objective of the proposed third Bank loan
for shelter is to help NHA rely to a greater extent on domestically mobilized
sources of funds for its projects, and the move toward immediately habitable
core housing is in line with the long-term financing requirements of the
domestic financial institutions such as the Government Housing Bank which
would not provide mortgages for incomplete, uninhabitable housing units. How-
ever, this move toward more complete core housing should not be confused with
the construction of larger, formal housing units which should remain the
responsibility of the private developers. NHA, as the public sector
developer, should attempt to maximize the impact of the scarce public
resources by providing more, basic minimum housing units which encourage
individual households to mobilize the additional funds required to expand the
houses to larger sizes, rather than providing fewer, more complete units.
Also, the open plots without any superstructure could still be a reasonable
solution in the smaller cities and for the higher-income households.
Cost Recovery
8.08      The project has demonstrated that recovery of the appropriate costs
can be achieved on new housing developments without massive government
subsidies. It is now government policy to eliminate all subsidies for NHA's
new housing developments, and thus funds for off-site infrastructure will no
longer be forthcoming from the Government. Since previously the amount of
government subsidy for these costs was limited to about 10% of the total cost
of a new development, the direct charging of these costs to beneficiaries
through the housing price is expected to have only a minor impact on resi-
dents' affordability in future projects. Also, in order to reduce further the
implicit subsidies available through public housing, future land costs will be
priced at market values rather than original cost plus carrying charges.
8.09      Regarding slum improvement projects, direct cost recovery has proven
to be infeasible for the reasons given previously (para. 6.13). Although the
approach to rely on the system of urban public finance to support the costs of
these improvements is a sound one, the fact that NHA is carrying out the



- 26 -
improvements, rather than local government, results in a continuing need for
government subsidies to NHA. Due to the difficult budgetary situation of the
Government over the past few years, a re-evaluation of the program carried out
by NHA is currently being undertaken by central officials. The emerging
consensus appears to be a desire to turn over the funding responsibility for
slum upgrading to local government which would finance the costs of
improvements out of general revenues and recover the costs through the
property tax system.
Target Income Groups
8.10      In this project a great deal of energy was devoted to the cost
implications of the technical solutions proposed to ensure that the final
product would be affordable to a particular income range of households
purchasing the units on the sites and services developments. However, a
significant number of households selected exceeded the income ranges for each
unit type for the reasons presented before (para. 6.12). The best control
over the income groups selected is to provide housing with standards low
enough and in sufficient quantity to meet the demand. As NBA expands its
output in the future, this situation is expected to become less of a problem.
Community Participation
8.11      The findings of both the sites and services development and slum
projects have highlighted the importance of community participation in
ensuring the success of the project developments. A recommendation of the
evaluation work undertaken is that NHA should actively promote community
organization on new housing developments so that residents of all income
groups may learn to participate together both in addressing concerns requiring
assistance from NHA and in resolving their own common needs. For future slum
projects, community participation should continue to be encouraged to dispell
the feelings of imminent eviction and to promote maximum cooperation during
the construction phase. The community committees promoted by NHA have been
found to work reasonably well, and the further use of these committees should
be continued in the future.
Employment Generation
8.12      The sites and services development at Tung Song Hong already has
demonstrated substantial employment effects. The 84 commercial shophouses
have been sold and are being operated by small entrepreneurs for a variety of
purposes. Similarly, the food market has been rented to small grocers and is
fully operational. As is common practice, a significant portion of the owners
of residential units have opened shops and small businesses on the lower level
floors or at the front of the units. Regarding the industrial sheds, NUA has
not been able as yet to market them due to a slowdown in processing of the
necessary approvals within the relevant industrial authorities. The sheds are
to be sold for light, non-polluting industries, and the employees would be
required to be drawn from the community. Because the nature of the industries
to be located on the site are not currently known, it is too early to estimate
fully the number of jobs to be created. NHA expects the plots to be approved
for marketing shortly, and it is recommended that an evaluation be carried out



- 27 -
in about two years' time to review the employment effects. At that time, it
should be possible to evaluate the impact of the small business loan program
as well.
Socio-Economic Programs
8.13      Although many of the bottlenecks experienced in this project in the
provision of socio-economic programs have been overcome in the follow-on
project, NHA's role as the public sector housing developer does not auger well
for its active participation in the planning and organization of the various
socio-economic programs. As expected by government policymakers at the time
of issuance of the first housing policy statement in late 1983, greater par-
ticipation by local governments, primarily BMA, should be encouraged for the
social aspects of the slum upgrading program. NHA should concentrate on the
provision of physical infrastructure in the slums to be upgraded which it has
been carrying out successfully in the past.



ANNEX 1
- 28 -                           Table 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Land Utilization of Tung Song Hong Sites and Services
Appraisal estimate            Actual
Area                    Area
Type of land use                    (sq m)    % of total   (sq m)    % of total
Residential                        260,678        60.8     239,304        55.8
Community and educational
facilities                        38,290         8.9      35,601         8.3
Commercial and sall-scale
business facilities               20,195         4.7      15,438         3.6
Circulation/roads/footpaths         65,490        15.3      99,388        23.2
Open space/park                     34,402         8.0      23,723         5.5
Treatment plant                      9,750         2.3       9,094         2.1
Artesian wells                           -          -        6,252         1.5
Total                       428,800       100.0     428,800       100.0



ANNEX I
-29 -                          Table2
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Residential Plot Distribution of Tun; Song Hong Sites and Services
Appraisal estimate                 Actual
Plot           Area           No. of       Total area       No. of    Total area
type          (sq m)          plots           (sq a)        plots        (sq a)
1               70              608          42,560           608        42,560
2               80            1,872          149,760        1,916       153,280
3               80              161           12,880          159        12,720
4               80              296           48,873/a        306        25,344
5              100               66            6,600           54         5,400
Total                     3,003         260,673         3,043      239,304
/a Included 25,193 sq a of additional areas on irregular plots.



_30                                   ANKRZE  2
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IPOOVBWENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Costs
Actual cost (baht)
Appraisal                                expressed as
estimate           Actual cost         a S or appraisal
Component                         JWU0   U5WJU1a    B-u    USW U/D             cost (baht)
Sites and Services
Land acquisltlon                15,230      762      16,140        607
Land fill                       20,000    1,000     14,238         712
Off-site lnfrastructure          5,400      270      7,499         375
On-site infrastructure          34,900    1,745     17349         ,8
Core housing                    65,000    3,250  1    '          7,780
Building materials loans        18,830      941     18,830/c       697
Co_mercial facilities           29,000    1,450
Community facilities             2,300      115     48,233       2,163
Education facilitles            25,040    1,252
Small business loans             4,000      200      4,0001c       148
Design/supervislon               9,082      454     24,006-      1,078
Contingencies                  61,238    3,062           -           -
subtotal                290.020   14.501    306,434       13.760           106
Narketing costs                        -        -     15,182         660
Interest during construction           -        -     41,108       1,846
Subtotal                290.020   14,501    362,724      16j266            125
Slum Iplrvement (King Petch)
and acquisition                  4,000      200          -           -
House purebase                   3,000      150        559          28
Infrastructure                   6,810      340      9,230         462
Community facilities             6,000      300      3,334         167
Social support programs          1,000       50        737          37
Small business loans             1,000       50        368          18
Design/supervision                 600       30        969          48
Contingencies                    4,570      229          -           -
Subtotal                 26,980    1.349      15.197         760            56
Slum Improvement (Other Slums)
Improvement cost                 8,000      400      7,727         386
Social support programs          1,000       50        844          42
Small business loans             1,000       S0        274          14
Design/supervision                 400       20        324          16
Contingencies                    4,140      207          -           -
Subtotal                 14.540       727      9.169        458             63
Technical Assistance
Professional services            6,240      312      12,359        618
Training                         3,170      159      3,138         157
Equipment                          430       21        414          21
Monitoring and evaluation        1,000       50        703          26
Contingencies                    1,620       81          -           -
Subtotal                 12,460       623     16,614        822            133
Total                   344,000   17.200    403.704       18.306           117
/a US$1   20 Baht.
US$ 1   21 Baht during 1981; 23 Babt during 1982 to November 1984 and 27 Baht from
November 1984.
Lc Estimated costs for project components not yet completed.



ANNEX 3
- 31 -    1 - Tle 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM INPROVEMNT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement of Loan from Categories
(U8$ equivalent)
Amount allocated      Amount disbursed
in Loan Agreement        as of 7/2/84
Civil works                                 5,690,000           6,751,872.77
Loans for materials for
house completion                            518,000                    -
Consultants' services,
technical assistance,
training and equipment                      542,000              46,095.11
Unallocated                                 1,850,000                    -
Total                               8,600.000            6,797,967.88
Cancellation                                       -            1,802,032.12
8,600,000.00



ANNEX 3
-32 -                              Table 2
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJICT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Accumulated Disbursements
(Us$ thousand)
Smester                     Appraisal                                    %
ending                     estimate               Actual           disbursed
June 30, 1978                    100                    0                0
December 31, 1978                580                   40                0
June 30, 1979                  2,080                  480               5.6
December 31, 1979              4,380                  840               9.8
June 30, 1980                  6,330                1,237              14.4
December 31, 1980              7,830                1,407              16.4
June 30, 1981                  8,575                2,029              23.7
December 31, 1981              8,600                2,570              29.9
June 30, 1982                      -                2,570              29.9
December 31, 1982                  -                3,410              39.7
June 30, 1983                      -                4,260              49.5
December 31, 1983                  -                5,850              68.0
June 30, 1984                      -                6,798              79.0
July 2, 1984                       -                1,802           cancelled



ANNEX 4
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Responsibilities for Operation of Community Facilities
at Tung Song Hbn8
Appraisal
Community facility                          expectation             Actual
Communlty hall                                  NHU                  NHA
Health center                                   BMA                   BMA
Industrial vocation promotion center             -            Dept. of Industry
Primary schools (2)                             BMA                   BMA
Kindergartens/day care centers (5)            MOB or            Private groups
private groups
Community park                                  NRA                  NHA
Food market                                     NHA                  NuA
Howker stalls (not yet marketed)                NRA                   NRA
Minibus terminal                                NHA                   NRA
Carparks (2)                                    NRA                  NRA
Area office                                     NRA                   NRA
Treatment plant                                 NHA            NHA, BMA (1988)



- 34                                ANNEX 5
Table 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Recovery of Costs at Tung Song Hong
Appraisal
Item                          estimate     Actual    To be recovered from:
---- (B mln) --
Land cost                       15.23/a      16.14    Individual beneficiaries
Land fill                       20.00        14.24         n            t
Off-site infrastructure:                              Central government grant
Access road                    0.25    )
Klong crossing                 1.30    )   7 50
Highway crossing               1.75    )
Railroad crossing              0.10    )
On-site infrastructure:                               Individual beneficiaries
Roads and footpaths            3.50    )
Drainage network               4.50    )
Water supply                   7.50    )
Sewerage system                9.20    ) 173.4
Solid waste disposal           0.20    )
Electrical system             10.00    )
Landscaping                      2.00    )            Individual beneficiaries
Core housing                    65.00    )                 o
Building materials loans        18.83        18.831/b
Education facilities            25.04    )            Ministry of Education, BMA
Community facilities             2.30    )  48,23    Individual beneficiaries
Commercial/small-scale                   )
business facilities           29.00    )
Small-scale business credit      4.00        4.00b/b
Design/supervision               9.08        24.00
Physical contingencies          28.61         -
Price contingencies             32.63         -
Interest during construction      -         41.11
Marketing costs                   -          15.18         "
Total                      290.02      362.72
/a  The price of land when purchased in 1966.
/b Estimated cost of items not yet completed.



ANNEX 5
- 35 -                              Table 2
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Terms of Loans and Rental Charges
Type of property
Food market
Residential   Commercial   Industrial   Hawker stalls
Appraisal expectation:
Downpayment (Z)              10             20           20
Interest rate (M)            12             12           12
Maturity of loan (years)    '0              15           15
Rental principle              -              -            -       To recover
full costs of
serviced land
& structures
at 12Z over
20 years
actual performance:
Downpayment (X               4-9.5         13-18         20             -
Interest rate (Z)            15             15           15             -
Maturity of loan (years)    20              15           15              -
Rental principal              -              -            -       To recover
full costs of
serviced land
& structures
at 15X over
20 years



-36-
SinS AID   IU   AND SM1. S6noWII    tp        ? (WAS 1336-1
Dovalomeat *Mt. emus ms. ed a" teordabwit,  _ses  ot alto 5id  t UWA Soft 11
DMa  pae7st               IsI_ats
NO.*Of             (bsetper      hiss    Z brup (+) or    13..,    as50 I o        RraP.wsbss   btste uagep-
unts   Are/wdt    unit          pres   croee suldo  (-)  py t  sale pice   p_nlaoaetb  sat t/olmoth  Totol
TY"e                                     (sq a)        (a)        (a)            (X)           (a)        (5)            (B)              (a)       (a)
Ihthl IncasaeF S 3.Otl0-4.000
(lt5Itb  I  til, 3
1.1  Op"  plot  sooday ted                    9        100      69,735      76,840        +10            3,500       4.6             750          140          S90
Iner    read                 30       100       69,735     59,140        -15            2,300       4.2             530          140          670
1.2  0a  stortery  tor    roed             1,566     70/80       7S,965     60,635          +2           3,800       4.7             780          150          930
v     _     _   3 4.001-5.000
2aitzth I Mmi 
2.1  Open plot   asia     rod                 IS       100      69,73S    96,930           +39           6,000       6.2             950          160        1,110
2.2  One store  secoary teod         5       70        So       95,020    127,425          +34          10,000       7.8           1,275          175  1,450
towbouss
2.3  Oas stoem   tast    teod                292       s0       96,935    111,32           +13           6,000       7.2           1,090          175        1.265
rodw
2.4  open plot  secoadery road                56       S0        73,625     99,430         +33           7,000       7.0             970          160        1,130
with a itary
1bntblbRs ~ _ 5.001-7.000
3.1  Oe Storey  win       toed               94        s0       96,935    141,770           4           12,000       8.5           1,430          too        1,610
3.2  To  Storey  inr      toed               154       S0       107,440    155,120         +44          13,000       t.4           1,65           185        1,770
twin _ous   min       road               6         S0      107,440    173,720         +42          16,000       9,2           1,790           65        1,975
ilb thli       t       B 7 001-9.000
4.1  too storey  _asn     roed               139        S0      130,120    220,105         447          21,000       9.5           2,2S0          220        2,500
Total  slenttl                     3.013
Xbnthll         1 _   from B 9.001 up
5.1  Commrclel  min       retd               42         48      227,670    400,000         +76          72,000      18.0           3,800          330        4,130
buildins  seondry roed                42         48      227,670    330,000         +54          46,000      13.0           3,490          330        3,820
Total Cacial                          64
3.2  Scay industry are                         3     1,514    2,904,840  3,237,175         +11         647,400      20.0          34,000          350       34,330
S.3  ball iUAtry otr                           3      657    1,158,570  1,710,660          +13         342,2W0      20.0          17,00          540       18,140
Totl Industrl l
5.4  Klntrsatstu                               5       376    2,926,880  2,965,070          +1         450,000      15.2          53,060            -       33,060
Tol Kadersrtnts
5.5  PooW  iket, harr stalls                 154         7       41,166 I-                                   -        -          400-6              -      40000
/a Nuptred In ter_ of the 19 Income dietrtibticn.
Ib bael rate.
/c lbit alable yet.



37 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 4
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN-1556TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated Monthly Household Income Distribution for Bangkok
Household income range (B/month)
Percentile         Appraisal estimate /a          Estimate at time of sales /b
1976                              1983
10 - 20               1,200 - 1,600                       3,400 - 4,500
21 - 35               1,601 - 2,200                       4,501 - 5,600
36 - 50               2,201 - 2,700                       5,601 - 7,800
51 - 70               2,701 - 4,400                       7,801 - 10,000
71+                     4,401+                              10,001+
/a From SAR, based on Incme Distribution in Thailand (IBRD Research Project
No. 671-36), Table 3.
/b Official Cabinet-approved figures, as provided by NBSDB.



-38 -                             ANNEXi-6
Table 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Calculation of Factors to Convert Project Costs to 1984 Constant Prices
Price indices (1976 - 100)
Construction           Machinery and                Labor
Year             materials                equipment             (CPI, Bangkok)
1983               183.4                    153.3                   192.6
1982               183.6                    148.5                   186.3
1981               177.0                    139.1                    176.8
1980               164.8                    129.5                   155.9
1979               146.1                    119.1                    130.0
1978               118.4                    116.4                    117.9
Annual percentage increases
Weighted
Construction         Machinery and                      average
Year          materials              equipment           Labor       X increase
(60%)                  (15%)            (25%)
1983             -0.2                   4.8               6.3             2.4
1982              6.6                   9.4               9.5             7.7
1981             12.2                   9.6              20.9            14.0
1980             18.7                  10.4              25.9            19.3
1979             27.7                   2.7              12.1            20.1
Year          Factors to convert to 1984 prices
1983                         1.024
1982                         1.103
1981                         1.257
1980                         1.500
1979                         1.801



ANNEX 6
Table 2
-39                                                Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITBS AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Worksheet for gconoWic Rate of Return for TIng SOn8 Hong
(B million)
Benefits
CoSts                                              Comm%nity
House                Total   Total 1984    Housing,        facilities
La  ConstruC-  comple-  Over-  06M  current   constant    comercial,   6 industrial
Year         Land   tion /b   tion /c  head    /d  prices    prices /e  market area8/f       reas /f     Total
1979           -     21.9        -       1.6    -     23.5      42.4            -               -          -
1980           -     21.5        -       1.4   -      22.9      34.4            -               -          -
1981           -     32.2        -      4.0    -      36.2      45.5             -              -          -
1982           -     34.7        -      2.6    -      37.3      41.2            -               -          -
1983           -     62.6        -      4.5    -      67.1      68.7            -               -          -
1984        108.3    41.3      30.0    22.1    -    201.7      201.7          43.1             9.0       52.1
1985           -       -       60.0      -    4.2    64.2       61.0          73.7            11.0       84.7
1986           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.8          73.9             9.8       83.7
1987           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6          73.9              -        73.9
1988           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1989           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6          73.9              -        73.9
1990           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6          73.9              -        73.9
1991           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1992           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6          73.9              -        73.9
1993           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6          73.9              -        73.9
1994           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1995           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1996           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1997           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1998           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
1999           -       -         -       -    4.2      4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2000           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2001           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2002           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2003           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2004           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2005           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2006           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2007           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2008           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
2009           -       -         -        -    4.2     4.2       3.6           73.9             -        73.9
Rate of return - 132
/a Market valUe In 1984.
/b Actual costs adjusted by construction conversion factor of 0.88.
/c Assumes average house completion cost of B 30,000.
/d  Estlated to be 22 p.a. of infrastructure and housing costs.
Ie Adjusted by factors in Annex 6, Table 1.
/f Based on assumptions presented on page 2 following.



ANNEX 6
40 -                                Table2
Page 2
Assumptions of Benefit Calculation
for Tung Song Hong
No. of    Rental value
Location       units     per month (B)
IMPUTED RENTAL VALUES
Residential Units
869.01 open plot                   Secondary road         9          1,300
Main road            15          1,750
Feeder road          30          1,000
811.01 one-storey rowhouse         Feeder road        1,568          1,500
811.02 one-storey rowhouse         Secondary road       570          1,700
811.03 one-storey rowhouse         Feeder road          292          1,700
one-storey rowhouse         Main road             94          2,000
812.01 two-storey rowhouse         Main road            159          3,000
812.02 two-storey semidetached     Feeder road          154          3,500
two-storey semidetached     Main road             96          4,000
812.03 open plot with core         Secondary road        56          2,000
Commercial Shophouses                                      84          6,000
Food Market and Hawkers' Stalls                           154        400-600
MARKET VALUES
Kindergartens   : 5 @ B 3,000,000/unit
Industrial sheds: 6 for a total value of B 14,844,105



- 41 -                                ANNEX 6
- 41 -                           Table 3
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH_)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Worksheet for Economic Rate of Return for Slum Improvement Projects
(B million)
Costs                              Benefits
NHA          Total   Total 1984  Increase
Improve-    Community    over-    /b  current   constant   in rental
Year      ments /a  facilities /a  heads   O&M  prices    prices Lc   values
1979        6.59         1.00       0.25    -      7.84       14.12         -
1980        3.80         1.29       0.40    -      5.49        8.24         -
1981        1.84         0.64       0.26    -      2.74        3.44         -
1982         -            -         0.17    -      0.17        0.19         -
1983        1.63          -         0.07    -      1.70        1.74        5.08
1984        1.55          -         0.14    -      1.69        1.69        5.08
1985         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.35        6.35
1986         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1987         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1988         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1989         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1990         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1991         -            -          -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1992         --                      -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
1993         --                      -      0.37   0.37        0.33        6.35
Rate of return = 11%
/a Actual-rosts adjusted by construction conversion factor of 0.88.
lb Estimated to be 2% p.a. of infrastructure.
/c Adjusted by factors in Annex 6, Table 1.



THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM I !ROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TB)
PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
Interor Hnister
I "    A
WSA  Board
i'  ~~~~I
Internal- Avditor Office                                               CifEgne
'~~~-ne _n C  
G3l-  -s--'t----r-  -                                                                    -- -- A^isa- Goero
Office of the            Estate  ng t         Dept. |i e Dept.-                     [a euch * Construction Dept. I 1Pl icy & Planning Office
F Administrative Div.    Coordination Div.                 Administrative section     Construction                  Addinistrative Section
Public Relaton Div.           HnRen    ite-Purchase D1).  Disbwsement Div.         Cordination DlV.               HusMing Policy &
~~~~~~~~C    ityPwigConstruction Reserch Div.                                                                Planning iHv.
 Personnel Div.        1Wntenance DRe . ttwe  Div. DRPn
Lepl Div.               A   Offite 1 t  it n DVng        Acuting Div.               EWneerfng Div.                 F ttnece Policy &
- Am Office I  OMS) -                       ~~~~Constuction &                Plaining Div.
Dat Operation           Area OffIce 2 Hiay  Ing)         Sudgetting lgv.            bintu,c  Div.                  Scal Economic. and
center          - Area. Office 3      Io Ea)               
Area Office 4                                               Slu )  L  ,,t OSIan t pgrading Office  'Iral lle
Akm Office I       cm
Ares office S mmnarhJ                       ~~~~Site Supervision DIV.14S
Ar  Office? B    t.
kaw  Office 8 ChIang ml)
Aro Offtco a  f)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



rAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1556-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NNA ORGANIZATION tART AS OF  AY19.L 193
|  JEH o8ard      1
MIWA Govenor 
eputy             Deputy             kssstant           Deputy                             Eyecutfve Administrator
6cternor Governor or ~~~~~G rnor                               nr,Level 10
Office of           Slum Upgrading           Finance            Construction  C| nstructfon         Picy A            Estate                  tre ftr
the 6overnor        Department               Deparbtent        Project            Service            lanning          Management              Ing & Huat   S
Assis|t  _ssisant                                           Department        Department         ffice              partment           ettlements
tAsss tAssistat                                                                       stant - Assistant -  n                tudses
Dlrector-           01rector           I    Director           hsistant           ss1stan          nsistsunt    I Asistant            I 
,irector         Drector                  Dirtctor         D1rector           Director          Drector           Dlrector
JAdininstviijon |     inhabitation            Finance
[Division     I   nSecurit Division          Coordination       Project       |sing                                      to
Dlvision          A6lnistration    Construct Ion         ic8  I              gMnagement        esearch
Ub ,IPuc     1   |gS-ocial and Ecodoel                         Di ison           Standard           lancing          Coordination         eamn
Relation      Iievelop t    -                Accountsng                                                  ios10n  Sion  Division                      -
DivisioiDivision                            IMonagement                           U | tes            0 p c            Planning              velopmmt
Eegal DYvisIon       p   ci                         inset       Diviston         _Engneerdg flancing                  DI
liuppi7 id---  1     Divisiont      lf l         sjn                               Division -  I onati0n  |n
-procurement I                                                                   I luct1     S}                        is5              I        gn
IDfYS0 I llRsi;aon        1I Dtson..! lvisto-n                          it1.8X                                                                   l I  lnys aIIHetton
*   iistratimn                             v                                     yi
r   I   rlseX"hR   l I  _                   % I  sim        Evaluation       iRent & Hire-
]personnel     Ilplfet                                          Prject                                 tsian         APurchase
1Dv150        |H1tS                                        I HMni      nn    I1                        1s-           ID11Ston-         I F[raining       i
,6hfare and   11Llosi Prm                                  1        1116  S1ORn                                    | FBn1ty-          I  eI
SPersonn81  1               -lC4w5S1on       § IS~~~~~prOjeCt                                         ISr |  srie       Idknistration}
Divisin                                                                  t                                            Divisin                 to
1 1.    1   -                          LPN~~~~~~~~~stte Hanagemit n<
4Pvoinslon nel
Snlsirstl0 1                   10~~~~~~~~~~~K~



- 44 -
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SlERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 15586TH)
Project Completion Report
Approlsol and Actual Implementation Schedule
EA         1978           1979            1980           191 _          1982            4983
PROJECT COMPONENW           -                         -                                                               --- -- -  
QUARTER   1  2  3   4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4  1  2  3 1 4   1  2  3  4
TUNG SONG HONG SITES & SERVICES
Land Filling
Core Housing & Infrashucture                            _r _A PA _-o _=W_,_,    _                          . _,A _. W  ,_ ,_m
Communitv Facilities
Primary SchOo & Kindwgotreen                                                                       Wm w_ PN 'MW ow_
Communfly Adminatrothon Complex &                                               NW, WA _O WM _A  _  _  _. _M, WA WM IF       I'm
fnloy School & Kindlgarden, Minibus.                                                               _. WA WM WA  __
Temnorr  Hows Stoll
Commercial Building&  ndergarden                                                                   .    .     ,     , _._
KING PETCH SWLM IMPROVEMENT
fnltrstutre & Community Focilities              _          A w. _ A *,
OTHER SLUMS
Infbat_ucture
Wat Prodittarom                                              A_
Soi Sdpoorn
Wat Sro Tong                                          _          _
Wat Yoi Sri Suphon                                    _
CommuniHy Building
Sol Sripoom
Wat YVo Sn Suphon                                                             . _  _  _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultancy & Acdvsoy Services
Trolning/Felowships
Monitoring & Evaluotion                                                _                                                    NW _  _  ._
Legend
_     Approisal
_--1WA" Actual
Worldi Bank--27349



