FILE COPY                                    Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2290-TH
REPORT-AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 11, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00         =    Baht (B) 20
B 1.00        =    $0.05
$1 million    =    B 20 million
B 1 million   =    $50,000
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)    =   2.47 acres (ac)
6.25 rai
1 liter (1)       =   0.26 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
BMA        -   Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
EGAT       - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IEAT       -  Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT       -  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
ISF        -  Interest Subsidy Fund
MWWA       - Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NHA        - National Housing Authority
PEA        - Provincial Electricity Authority
RTG        - Kingdom of Thailand
SRT        -  State Railway of Thailand
TOT        - Telephone Organization of Thailand
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



MO OFFmICAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:                  National Housing Authority (NHA)
Amount:                       $8.6 million
Terms:                        20 years, including five years' grace, with interest
at 7.5% p.a.
RelendinR Terms:              $6.6 million of the loan will be relent to NRA
for a term of 20 years, including five years' grace,
with interest at 7.5% p.a. The remaining $2.0 mil-
lion will be given to NHA as a grant.
Project Description:          The project will improve the living conditions of
approximately 35,000 of Bangkok's low-income resi-
dents, by providing new housing for about 3,000
families; by improving the sanitation, health
conditions and access to public services for about
3,500 families in existing slums; and by increasing
employment opportunities in the project areas.
The project includes: (a) housing sites and
services at Tung Song Hong for about 3,000 housing
units, including land and infrastructure, core
houses with sanitary facilities, materials loans
for house completion through self-help, community
facilities, commercial and small-scale industrial
areas and loans to small-scale businesses; (b) slum
improvement at five slums affecting nearly 2,300
dwelling units, including land acquisition, infra-
structure improvements, community facilities,
loans to small-scale businesses and social support
programs; and (c) technical assistance to NRA,
including 66 man-months of consultancy and advisory
services, training/ fellowships and project monitor-
ing and evaluation. The project inherently entails
some risk, being the first of its kind to be under-
taken by NRA. The demand for site and services
units and the willingness of slum residents to pay
for improvements have yet to be proven in Thailand,
but the risks are considered reasonable in view of
the pilot nature of the project in dealing with
shelter problems of the poor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discoed without World bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:                  ------- $ million ---------             % of
Local       Foreign      Total          Total
Sites and services /1   7.9             3.1        11.0           64%
Slum improvement          1.2           0.4         1.6             9%
Technical assistance    0.1             0.4         0.5             3%
Design and supervision  0.6              -          0.6             3%
9.8          3.9        13.7
Contingencies:
Physical                1.2           0.5         1.7           10%
Price                   1.2          0.6          1.8           11%
2.4          1.1         3.5
Total                    12.2           5.0        17.2           100%
Financing Plan:                ------- $ million ---------             % of
Local       Foreign      Total          Total
IBRD                      3.6           5.0         8.6           50%
NHA /1                    7.1             0         7.1           41%
Government                 1.2            0         1.2             7%
Krung Thai Bank /2        0.3             0         0.3            2%
Total                  12.2           5.0        17.2          100%
Estimated Disbursements             ------------- $ million ------------
from Bank Loan:          Bank FY:  1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual:                        0.10    1.98    4.25    2.24    0.03
Cumulative:                    0.10    2.08    6.33    8.57    8.60
Rate of Return:                16% (weighted average of sites and services
and slum improvement components)
Appraisal Report:              No. 1776a-TH, dated March 28, 1978
/1 Including land acquisition costs already incurred of $0.8 million.
/2 For small business loans.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A BANGKOK SIIES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of ThaLiland for the equivalent of $8.6 million to help
finance a Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement Project.  The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years' grace, with interest at
7.5% per annum.  $6.6 million of the loan would be relent to the National
Housing Authority (NRA) for a term of 20 years, including five year's grace,
with interest at 7.5% per annum. The remaining $2.0 million would be given to
NRA as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280A-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the ExecutiLve Directors in November 1976 and to members of the
Consultative Group for Thailand in February 1977. A basic economic mission
visited Thailand in November 1977 and its preliminary findings have been
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        The Government of Prime Minister Thanin, which was installed follow-
ing the assumption of powier by the National Administrative Reform Council
(NARC) in October 1976, lasted one year. On October 20, 1977, members of
the NARC, dissatisfied with the Thanin Government's domestic and foreign
policies and its 16-year timetable for restoring democratic processes, ousted
the Prime Minister and his cabinet. The NARC then reconstituted itself as
the National Policy Council, the highest political authority in the country.
An interim constitution was promulgated which required a general election to
be held in a year's time and the drafting of a new permanent constitution,
which has been initiated. In November, the National Policy Council appointed
General Kriangsak Chomanan to be Prime ilinister and he then formed a cabinet
comprised mostly of civilians. The new government affirmed its support of
the objectives of the country's Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social
Development Plan (1977-81) and announced its intention to undertake more
aggressive development policies. Its principal concerns are alleviating
rural poverty, particularly in the Northeast, and improving relations with
neighboring socialist countries. Since December, 1977, steps have been taken
to normalize relations with Laos, Viet Nam and Cambodia.
/1 Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as in the recent
President's Report (No. P2230-TH dated February 15, 1978) for the
Accelerated Rural Electrification Project in Thailand, distributed
to the Executive Directors on February 5, 1978.



- 2 -
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Rapid
growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded average
annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10%, respectively, enabled
real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7.7% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20 to 27% of GDP, with private
investment constituting two thirds of total investment. The share of gross
domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19 to 24%. As a result, in no year did
the resource gap (import surplus needed to realize the levels of consumption
and investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was considerably less in most
years.
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 4.6% in 1974 and 5.5% in 1975 to 6.3% in 1976, and 6.2% in 1977.
In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when the external sector and
private investment provided the main impetus to growth, the much-needed
stimuli to demand since 1975 came from the public sector, with a strong
expansion in export receipts reinforcing the growth of domestic demand in the
latter two years.
6.        The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rapid rise in export earnings. Both 1975 and 1976 registered
much higher current account deficits than occurred in previous years ($600 mil-
lion in 1975 and $450 million in 1976 compared to $50 million in 1973 and
$90 million in 1974). A large part of these deficits was due to the decline
in Thailand's terms of trade by 33% between 1973 and 1976. The import price
index rose by 60% in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however,
a substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports
helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade in that year to less than
10%. In 1975 through 1977 there were moderate import price increases and
stable or falling export prices led to a further substantial fall in the
terms of trade. In 1977, despite an unprecedented high level of exports, the
current account deficit amounted to $1,100 million./I
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves, which had increased in 1974, declined by $140
million in 1975. Although there was some improvement in foreign direct
investment, total private capital inflows declined in 1976. Capital inflows
to the public sector, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
Government's first borrowing from a syndicate of private banks of $100
million was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be
disbursed. Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the compensatory
financing scheme of the IMF, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded
a small surplus but a deficit of about $375 million occurred in 1977, to be
financed mainly by drawing on reserves. The country's net reserves in
November, 1977 amounted to $1.2 billion, equivalent to slightly less than 3
months' imports, as compared to a reserve level of almost 6 months' imports
equivalent at the end of 1974.
/1 Based on aggregate 1977 data.



-3-
8.        Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976.  Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.2% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974. Inflation increased somewhat in 1977 with the rise in
the Consumer Price Index expected to be in the 8-9% range.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        The new Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives
include a growth target of 7%, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and a balanced development of the different regions. Projected public sector
development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as
compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan
(1972-76). Nevertheless, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms, and concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain to be defined. The Bank has therefore
recently begun an intensive program of economic studies to help the Government
define a policy and investment framework for implementation of the Fourth
Plan. These studies as well as concurrent work under way within the Government
are focusing on problems of employment and income distribution and will help
to better define the policy issues involved.
10.       While these studLies are progressing, preliminary findings indicate
that the Thai economy has many positive features which augur well for rapid
and broadly distributed growth. These include the sustained rapid rate of
economic growth over the past two decades; relatively equitable distribution
of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to superior technology; extensive
provision of infrastructure by the Thai Government; dynamism of the private
sector in both industry and agriculture; and, finally, the major gains made in
family planning in recent years. From the high population growth of 3%
annually during 1960s, the rate of growth had slowed to 2.6% in 1976 and 2.5%
in end 1977. However, social and economic progress in the future is likely
to require a more active role on the part of the Government if the goals of
the Plan are to be achieved.
11.       Agricultural growth in the past has been based to a large extent on
expansion of cultivated areas. Prospect for further expansion of cultivated
areas is now limited and fEuture growth of the sector will have to be based
mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated area, improvement in yields,
continued diversification of crops including, in some areas, different forms
of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricultural
credit. All of these would require increased Government assistance to the
private rural sector. Furthermore, a significant part of the rural population,
particularly in the north and northeast regions, has not fully participated
from the recent growth in rural income, and special programs will have to be
formulated to accelerate income growth in these areas. In the past, public
rural investment has concentrated on the expansion of the irrigation network
in the central plain. A greater effort is now required to develop upland and
other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infrastruc-
ture development. Income levels of farmers in these areas are much lower than



in the irrigated areas and their increased productivity is necessary to ensure
continued growth of the agricultural sector as well as to improve the distri-
bution of income.
12.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the impetus for future growth will have
to come increasingly from the industrial sector. Industry, construction
and services, will have to provide an increasing share of employment and
income opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy and
programs should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force at increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be
required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also
offers opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment,
and processed agricultural products as well as on production for foreign
markets. The industrial sector has also developed to a stage where basic
industries such as steel and chemicals and harnessing of natural gas potential
could also contribute to future growth.
13.       A central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is managing
the transition from an economy whose growth is based on the extension of land
under cultivation and import substitution industries to one based on increas-
ingly intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's
role has been confined largely to short-term economic management, where it's
performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic and social
services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the Government
will have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions. This implies
that an integrated and carefully planned program of reform of public institu-
tions will have to be implemented. Such a program should be carried out
systematically and gradually over a period of years and would need to include:
(a) changes in the system of personnel management; (b) improving the capacity
of ministries to plan, monitor and control activities of their respective
departments; (c) greater decentralization of decision-making to the provincial
and local levels; and (d) rationalization of the functions of, and coordination
among, the central government agencies responsible for planning, budgeting,
staffing and economic management.
14.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will therefore require much greater efforts to mobilize
both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government domestic
revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1976) was low compared to other



- 5 -
developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax rates,
high exemptions and a somewhat-below-average rate of compliance. Improved
resource mobilization through increased taxation of property and income and
better collection efforts will make the tax system more progressive. Such
changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade, partic-
ularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
15.       The deterioration in the country's terms of trade has raised substan-
tially the external capital flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth Plan
is likely to require commitments of about $3-3.5 billion in project financing
*         and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources such as
Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries' export
financing facilities. This public sector borrowing program would raise the
public debt service ratio (service payments on public debt as a percentage of
exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. Although the service ratio for
total debt, which amounted to 13.4% in 1976, is projected to remain below 17%
throughout the Fourth Plan period, the unfavorable development of the country's
balance of payments since 1974 and the significantly larger role required of
the public sector to maintain growth in the future justify some concessionality
in the foreign financing of government projects. At their meeting of March 22
and 23, 1977, members of the Consultative Group considered these projected
amounts of external borrowing reasonable and supported the Government's
objective to seek a major part of such financing on concessional terms. It
therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the
Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricu:Ltural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditure.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 42 loans
amounting to $1,003.2 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have been
for transportation ($186.0 million), irrigation ($218.8 million) and power
($216 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation
project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water supply ($55
million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 million), industry
($42.8 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock ($5 million), rubber
replanting ($50 million) and national agricultural extension ($28 million),
with the rural development and livestock loans having been made under the terms
of the Interest Subsidy Fund. In addition, loans of $110 million and $25 million
for provincial roads and rural electrification, respectively, have been signed
but are not yet effective. Thailand has also received three IDA credits:
one for $19.5 million for an education project; and two credits totaling
$12.5 million for irrigation improvement. One credit of $33.1 million for a
population project has been signed but is not yet effective. In general,



-6-
Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance
with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1978, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1978.
17.       Over the past year, loans have been approved for national agricul-
tural extension, irrigation, power and industrial development. In the current
two-year cycle, projects to support a broad range of agricultural development,
rural infrastructure, education, small- and medium-scale industries, popula-
tion and low-cost housing and neighborhood improvement would account for
about two thirds of the proposed program.  Continued lending is also planned
for power, including rural electrification, telecommunications and natural
gas development. In transportation, the emphasis has shifted from major
highways to provincial and rural roads and improvement of inland waterways
and coastal ports.
18.       The Bank continues to diversify its lending program in Thailand
with the objective of assisting the Government to expand its effort to improve
the distribution of income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of growth.
Increasingly, projects are selected and designed to spread development
benefits to the lower income groups and the more needy regions. One of the
main functions of the Bank's regional mission in Bangkok is to assist the
Government in developing projects to meet these objectives.
19.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$309 million, as of December 31, 1976, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
20.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of Thailand; two loans and an investment, totaling
$32.08 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company; and a
loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of $200,000 in United Sugar
Terminal Company. IFC has recently approved a line of credit of $2.0 million
for small- and medium-scale enterprises to be administered by Siam Commercial
Bank. IFC has also completed the appraisal of a project for producing carbon
black. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably good. IFC has been
asked to arrange the debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 mil-
lion zinc mining and refinery project. Other likely operations are the devel-
opment of privately sponsored industrial estates, two projects to expand
cement production, and one for the manufacture of glass bottles and containers.
At the Government's request, the Capital Markets Department carried out a
reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank, which is currently being
implemented by the latter institution.



-7-
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Bangkok Metropolitan Area
21.       Thailand's urban sector is characterized by a relatively low level
of urbanization, rapid growth and the predominance of Bangkok. With a 1977
population of 4.8 million and a growth rate of 5% per annum, Bangkok accounts
for almost half of the total urban population. Bangkok is 40 times larger
than the next largest city in Thailand. It is the main port and transportation
hub, industrial, commercial and financial center, and regional headquarters
for a number of international agencies and multinational businesses. Although
Bangkok accounts for only 10% of the total population, in 1976 it contributed
27% of the Gross Domestic Product. The city provides other important attrac-
tions as well: secondary and higher educational facilities are heavily
concentrated there, with about 60% of the nation's upper secondary and 85% of
higher education institutions. The physician to population ratio in Bangkok is
approximately 20 times higher than in the rest of Thailand. It is also the
cultural center and location of the main Royal Residence.
22.       Bangkok was founded in 1782 on the eastern side of a large loop of
the Chao Phya River, an easily defensible site which provided access to the
sea and water for a system of canals (klongs) used as the city's principal
transportation and drainage networks. Although Bangkok's location was well
chosen for strategic and commercial purposes, the characteristics of its site
create development problems. The city is built on an alluvial plain of
geographically young clay. The heavy impervious soil makes drainage difficult
and hinders efficient operation of septic tanks. The flatness of the site,
averaging only 1 m above sea level, and a ground water table rarely more than
1 m below the surface impose severe constraints on the development of drainage
and sewerage systems. The city has developed in narrow strips along the main
transportation arteries, leaving large land gaps undeveloped or utilized for
rice paddies.
23.       Bangkok's modern development has been neither effectively planned
nor controlled. A master plan for Bangkok to 1990 was formulated in 1960 and
has been revised twice. While none of these plans has been followed consis-
tently, planning controls have been applied in some sections of the city
during recent years. A Plan currently being prepared in accord with new
planning legislation enacted in 1975 will apply to the entire city once it has
been approved.
24.       The Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA) was created in 1972
to consolidate urban management functions, particularly primary education,
municipal services, and maintenance of metropolitan roads and waterways.
However, BMA has experienced persistent management difficulties, and as in
most large metropolises, coordination has been weak among many of the local
and national agencies with major responsibilities in the city. The city's
tax base is weak, primarily because of negligible real estate taxes.



- 8 -
25.       The unplanned nature of Bangkok's growth has produced predictable
deficiencies in basic infrastructure for water supply, sewerage, drainage and
transportation. About 30% of the population, mainly in the lower-income
groups, have no public water service, and adequate pressure can be maintained
only in about 20% of the serviced areas. There is no central sewerage system
in the city. The most commonly employed waste disposal devices are septic
tanks and cesspools. Inefficient drainage, together with high water table
and periodic flooding, make water pollution a health hazard and esthetic
nuisance. Implementation of a combined sewerage and drainage master plan
completed in 1968 has proceeded piecemeal because of technical problems with
the plan. The city's transportation system is characterized by a very low
proportion of space devoted to circulation (not more than 10% in the inner
core) and a road network dependent on a limited number of major roads with
only a few connected links. Circuitous and time consuming road journeys are
often necessary to cover relatively short direct distances. The absence of
hierarchy among roads and frequent violation of traffic regulations further
aggravate the congestion. A major transportation study outlining immediate
traffic management measures and short-term investments as well as a longer-
term strategy was completed in 1975 with technical assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany. Some of the short-term measures recommended by the
consultants have been partially implemented. At the request of the Government
the Bank is assisting in the preparation of a traffic management project which
would include implementation of some of these short term investments and of
policy measures directed toward improving public transport planning and
traffic management.
26.       Bangkok is economically a very active city.  The private sector is
characterized by small firms, competition and price responsiveness. The
city's manufacturing industries are quite diversified, although textiles and
apparel account for almost 30% of employment in industry. Basic metal equipme
and appliances, including manufacture of metal products, machinery and transpo
equipment, account for another 28%. Unemployment rates have been unusually
low, estimated at less than 2.5% during the first half of the 1970s. Because
of the low unemployment level, absolute urban poverty appears to be less
widespread in Bangkok than other Asian cities. The level of urban poverty is
estimated at between 9% and 13% in Bangkok and somewhat more in other urban
centers. However, wage rates are responsive to demand and supply, and some
workers are prepared to accept very low pay as an alternative to unemployment.
Housing Conditions
27.       The growth of Bangkok's housing supply has been characterized by
moderate formal sector output catering to the upper and middle-income groups,
a very limited public program and proliferation of inadequately serviced
slums. The Government estimates that by 1980 there will be a housing shortage
of about 160,000 units for households earning less than B 5,000 a month if
current trends continue. The private formal sector builds primarily for
households in the upper third of the income distributions. Financing for
this type of housing is usually available from the Government Housing Bank
and commercial banks.
28.       Bangkok's low-income populace lives in a variety of housing
situations. Workers' housing is provided for a substantial number of
employees at levels varying from crude temporary shelters for construction



- 9 -
workers to fully developed estates for the employees of particular companies.
Slum settlements are the most important source of low-income housing, accom-
modating over a million people or about 25% of Bangkok's total population.
In addition to extensive settlements with as many as 35,000 inhabitants,
there are more than 100,000 people living in small clusters of slum housing
or in single dwellings scattered throughout the city. Almost a fifth of
these households do not pay rent for the land on which they live, while those
who do pay rent either have no formal tenure arrangements or very short-term
agreements (usually 1-2 years).
29.       Inadequate drainage and solid waste disposal are the major environ-
mental problems in the slums, contributing to health hazards. Ditches which
empty into klongs (canals) are the principal means of drainage. Garbage is
usually thrown in to open, spaces, klongs, or ditches which overflow during
the rainy season. Garbage collection and pumping of septic tanks by municipal
authorities is impeded by, lack of road access or even paved walkways as well
as by shortage of -7ehicles and refuse containers. Water supply is inadequate,
households with piped water normally leave their taps open all the time to
receive water whenever thLe pressure is adequate. Health conditions in slum
communities reflect squalid environmental conditions and the residents'
poverty. The major types of illness reported in these areas are colds, skin
diseases, malnutrltion in children, intestinal infection and respiratory
diseases.
National Housing Authority Programs
30.       The National Housing Authority (NHA) was formed in 1973 in response
to the Government's concern over the increasing shortage of housing for
low-income groups. NHA amalgamated four existing agencies concerned with
public housing and assumed responsibility for about 12,300 housing units,
approximately half of whiLch were rental properties, and 6,400 plots of land.
A semi-autonomous state enterprise, NHA is responsible to a cabinet-appointed
Board of Directors under the Ministry of Interior and managed by a Governor
appointed by the Board.
31.       NRA's initial program was far too ambitious for its capabilities,
calling for an additional 120,000 units in Bangkok by 1980. In practice,
NHA had completed only about 6,000 units by 1976 but was able to initiate
schemes in 1977 which will generate another 18,000 units. This acceleration
of its construction program is NHA's major accomplishment to date, and reflects
the dedication and drive of its young but capable staff. Low-income projects
typically consist of walk-up flats of 35-50 sq m per unit. Several recent
schemes also provide middlle-income housing which NHA hoped to sell at a
profit; however, it has experienced marketing problems competing with private
sector in this price range.
32.       NHA's low-incorme projects have been heavily subsidized to date.
The Government initially undertook to finance NBA's deficits with the intention
of building up, over a fiLve-year period, a revolving fund to finance future
programs. It has come to realize, however, that under current pricing
policies the deficit wiLl continue to rise from its current cumulative level



- 10 -
of $5.5 million as additional units are completed and sold. Increasing
Government dissatisfaction with NHA's heavy subsidies has recently led to a
review of the Authority's pricing policies and design standards. In January
1978, the NHA Board approved new policies which would substantially reduce
subsidies and emphasize sites and services schemes. Under the new policies,
which are subject to Government review, the lowest income group would pay
approximately 60% of the capital cost of typical units. While discussions to
date indicate that neither NHA nor the Government is yet ready to undertake a
large project involving extensive policy and programmatic changes, they have
requested Bank assistance in the ongoing review of low income housing policy
by undertaking a small pilot project which could demonstrate the feasibility
of self-financing schemes with standards affordable by low-income families.
The proposed sites and services and slum improvement project responds to this
request and is expected to establish a working relationship between the Bank
and the NHA which will eventually lead to larger projects bearing more policy
significance. The Government has agreed to exchange views with the Bank
regarding any changes proposed in NHA's financial arrangements, criteria for
cost recovery and/or construction progam (Section 4.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
33.       Another important policy change was the Cabinet's approval in early
1977 of a Bangkok Slum Upgrading Program and the vesting of responsibility for
this program with NHA; the new Government has reaffirmed its commitment to
this program. On the basis of a survey of 108 slums, 38 communities housing
about 12,000 families were identified for permanent improvement. The slum
improvement component of the proposed project would support the upgrading of
five slums during the program's first two-year implementation period. Slums
located primarily on Government land were selected for the first phase because
of constraints on the NBA's power to deal with private landowners. With regard
to slums included in the project, the NHA has recently signed a long-term
lease arrangement with the Treasury Department, the principal landowner at
each site, allowing NHA to sublease, in turn, this land to slum residents. A
committee responsible to the Ministry of the Interior is currently reviewing
Thai legislation affecting slum improvement and will propose changes to
enhance the NHA's power to upgrade privately owned slums in subsequent
phases. The Government has agreed to share the results of the committee's
review with the Bank and to take such action as required to enable NHA to
improve privately-owned slums (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
34.       The Bank's long-term strategy in the urban sector of Thailand is to
improve the living and working environment in the crowded capital city,
particularly for the poorer segments of the population, and to help control
its future growth by encouraging industrial expansion in other urban centers.
While the proposed project will be the first directed explicitly at Bangkok's
urban poor, an ongoing water supply project is helping to improve the supply
of potable water to all the city's residents. Employment generated by loans
to the industrial sector can also be expected to improve the living standards
of Bangkok's poor. In the future, we expect to assist the Government to
(a) expand its low-income housing program, (b) improve public transport and
alleviate traffic congestion in central Bangkok, and (c) develop centers of
employment outside the capital, most immediately on the eastern seaboard
where the Government plans to construct a deepwater sea port and a natural gas
pipeline.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.        A sites and services and slum improvement project was initially
identified for possible Bank Group financing in late 1975 during discussions
between the NRA and Bank staff, and a mission to help prepare and preappraise
the project visited Bangkok in April 1976. NRA, with the close cooperation of
the King Petch slum residents, completed preparation of the slum improvement
component, but preparation of the sites and services component was delayed
when the Authority encountered land acquisition problems. A new site at Tung
Song Hong on NRA-owned land was selected early in 1977 and preparation by
NHA was sufficiently advanced to allow appraisal of the present project in
July 1977. Negotiations took place in Washington from February 21 to 24,
1978. The Government delegation was led by H. E. Khun Prasit Narongdej,
Deputy Minister of Communications and Governor of NRA, assisted by Khun Pandit
Bunyapana, Director of the Fiscal Policy Office, Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
36.        The proposed project is intended to demonstrate the technical and
financial feasibility of new approaches to the shelter problems of Bangkok's
urban poor and to support NRA's reevaluation of its programs and policies.
Specifically, the purposes of the project are to: (a) develop appropriate
design standards affordable by the poor without large subsidies for sites and
services residential developments; (b) support implementation of the initial
phase of the Bangkok Slum Improvement Program; and (c) provide technical
assistance to support the revision of NRA policies and to improve its cost
accounting and control.
37.        The proposed project will consist of:
(a) Housing sites and services at Tung Song Hong for about 3,000
housing units, including: (i) land and infrastructure, (ii) core
houses with sanitary facilities, (iii) materials loans for house
completion through self-help, (iv) community facilities, including
primary schools and a health center; (v) commercial and small-scale
industrial areas and (vi) loans to small-scale businesses;
(b)  slum improvement at King Petch for about 1,500 housing units and at
four other slums affecting about 800 housing units, including:
(i) land acquisition, (ii) infrastructure improvement, (iii) community
facilities, including primary schools and meeting halls; (iv) loans
to small-scale businesses, and (v) social support programs; and
(c) technical assistance to NRA, including 66 man-months of consultancy
and advisory services, training/fellowships and monitoring and
evaluation of the project.
Details are provided in the report entitled "Thailand Staff Project Report:
Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum Improvement Project" (No. 1776a-TH, dated
March 28, 1978) which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 12 -
38.       The Tung Song Hong site, located about 17 km north of the city
center and 2 km south of the Bangkok international airport, covers an area of
about 42 ha owned by NHA. The project will provide approximately 3,000
residential plots of three sizes (70, 80 and 100 sq m). Each plot will have
access by road or footpath and will have all major utility connections:
water, drainage, sewerage and electricity. Three types of core houses have
been designed, each providing a different level of completion to meet demands
of different income groups. The scheme will also provide building materials
loans - in currency or in kind - to enable completion of the core units,
primarily through self-help. The lowest unit cost is about $1,600, including
land, infrastructure and core housing. Through differential pricing of land
and cross-subsidization within the program, the sale price of this unit would
be about $1,360, which is affordable by households at the 14th percentile on
the income distribution curve for the Bangkok area. The project also provides
for community and educational facilities as well as commercial and small
industrial sites.
39.       Plots will be offered to eligible households on the NHA's waiting
list. Criteria will include Thai citizenship, six-month Bangkok residency
and non-ownership of land or house in Bangkok. Three types of core units
have been designed, each constructed to different levels of completion to
meet the demands of households of monthly incomes of less than B 1,500 (22%),
B 3,000 (69%), or B 5,000 (9%). Allotees will be required to pay a 10% down
payment within one year of signing a hire-purchase agreement and to occupy
their plots within a year of core completion. To avoid speculation, resale
is limited to those meeting the project's eligibility criteria and subleasing
is prohibited during the first five years (Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement).
40.       King Petch is a central city slum covering an area of about 13 ha,
on land which is 67% Government owned. About 10,000 people will benefit
from the proposed scheme which will mainly provide improvements to access
roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, garbage disposal and community
facilities. Sewage disposal will continue in the present form of individual
or multi-family type septic tanks, with effluent pipes to be improved as
necessary. Improvements have been designed to minimize relocation of residents.
Only 12 families will be affected, and adequate steps will be taken to find
new homes for them and to compensate them for their losses (Section 4.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The project also includes social support programs,
mainly family planning and vocational training, and small-scale business loans.
The infrastructure improvement cost (exclusive of community facilities etc.)
is estimated at $275 per dwelling, while the directly chargeable cost averages
about $255 per dwelling, which is affordable by the residents. Security of
tenure will be provided through long-term (20-year) leasehold titles.
41.       Four additional slums will be improved in the second year of the
program, following the experience gained at King Petch. These were selected,
from the 108 slums surveyed in 1976 by NHA, on the basis of their physical and
socio-economic characteristics, size, and location on primarily Government-
owned land. Slums on Government land were chosen to minimize land tenure and
cost recovery problems. The four slums comprise an estimated 8 ha and provide
shelter for about 9,000 people. The NRA will elicit the views and support of
present residents, as it did in the case of King Petch, in determining the
improvements to be undertaken (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 13-
42.       The small-scale business program at Tung Song Hong is designed to
provide employment opportunities for about 1,500 residents, primarily women
wishing to work within the community who would have difficulty finding
employment otherwise. The essential elements of the program are that NHA
will develop and promote a small-industry complex on its site and will link
potential entrepreneurs with the institutions that provide a broad range of
technical assistance services and financing. These agencies include the
National Institute of Skill Development and the Krung Thai Bank. Financing
will include land and industrial sheds on hire-purchase terms (15 years at 12%
interest) from NHA, and machinery, equipment and possibly some working capital
through Krung Thai Bank for seven years at prevailing market rates (expected
to be 12-15%). The small-scale business program for the improved slums will
be tailored to the needs of existing businesses. It will include, in addition
to technical assistance and training, small loans (B 2,500-10,000) for buying
machinery or raw materials. As in the case of the Tung Song Hong program, NHA
will coordinate the services of the other institutions for technical assistance
and training and 'or the special loan program with Krung Thai Bank for the
small entrepreneurs in the improved communities.
The Executing Agency, NHA
43.       The principal executing agency for the project will be the NRA.
In mid-1977 NHA had 1,328 permanent employees. It has been able to attract
young staff with strong formal qualifications, but relatively few of its
technicians have had much practical experience. Rapid expansion of NHA's
staff and growth in the number of projects being executed have strained the
organization's capability to manage and monitor project implementation. One
consequence has been substantial delays and frequent cost overruns. Financial
management has also been weak, emphasizing bookkeeping rather than systematic
use of financial data fo,r management planning and project monitoring. The
technical assistance to be provided in the project will aid NHA in strengthen-
ing financial management, project planning and implementation, and estate
management.
44.       The project will provide three types of assistance in these areas:
(a) professional services, (b) regional field trips and work-study programs in
other agencies, and (c) advanced study programs. The technical assistance
component also provides for monitoring and evaluation of the subprojects.
The professional services are planned to support NBA's ongoing policy review
by strengthening financial management and emphasizing appropriate standards
in project design. Among other things, the consultants will advise NHA on
the accounting and control of project expenditures, the use of financial data
in management planning and monitoring and the identification and financing of
housing subsidies. The organizational analysis will primarily focus on
project planning, implementation and monitoring. Consultancy services in
estate management will identify measures to improve the efficiency of main-
tenance services and assess the relation between rents and estate management
costs. Two man-years of engineering advisory assistance will be provided to
help reorient NHA technical staff to plan projects with more appropriate
design standards. An irnovative feature of the technical assistance involves
the provision of transportation and subsistence allowances to enable five NRA



- 14 -
staff to spend about three months each working with other agencies in Southeast
Asia currently implementing similar slum improvement and sites and services
projects (Jakarta and Manila, for example).
45.       During its 1976 fiscal year, NHA had capital expenditures of about
$14.7 million and administrative expenses of about $3.9 million. Its balance
sheet at May 31, 1977, showed assets of $171 million, 4% of which represented
losses not yet written off or nonrecoverable expenditures.  NHA's most prominent
financial characteristics are (i) a cumulative operating deficit of $5.5 mil-
lion due to subsidies and arrears amounting to 26% of accounts receivable
during 1977-78 and (ii) a substantial portion of its assets, almost half,
accounted for by projects being implemented.
46.       NHA's current financial arrangements and subsidy policies mean that
its program requires substantial ongoing financial support from Government
through operating grants, capital contributions, or servicing of its debts.
The primary goal of this project, for which separate accounts will be kept
(Section 4.01 of draft Project Agreement), is to demonstrate the types of
schemes which can supply residential services to large numbers of poor families
without subsidies. Although the project will not have a substantial impact on
the NHA's overall financial position in the short-term, it will contribute to
the formulation of policies and programs which will eventuallly enable the NHA
to become financially self-sufficient. The experience gained from implementing
the proposed project should enable NBA to expand its capacity to plan and
implement similar projects in Bangkok and other areas of Thailand.
Small Business Lender, Krung Thai Bank
47.       The Krung Thai Bank will make small business loans in both Tung
Song Hong and the project slums to entrepreneurs directed to it by NHA and
will make available the necessary staff and loan funds for this purpose
(Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). It will assess applications,
approve and disburse loans and collect loan repayments. Krung Thai Bank is a
commercial bank established in 1966 and wholly owned by the Ministry of Finance,
the Under-Secretary of which serves as its Chairman. Its main functions are
to provide commercial banking facilities for the Government as well as the
public, to perform financial functions which the Government cannot undertake
directly, and to extend the banking system via over 140 branches to all parts
of the country. It is the second largest commercial bank in Thailand. It
made a net profit of B 107.7 million in its 1976-77 fiscal year.
Project Execution and Managemnt
48.       The project will be implemented over a four year period, 1978-1981.
A project manager appointed by NHA will be responsible for the Project's
overall direction and coordination; he will be supported by a deputy and an
accountant. Each major component, i.e., Tung Song Hong, King Petch, the other
slums to be upgraded, will be implemented by teams drawn from NHA's various
divisions. Staff from the Research and Construction Department will be
responsible for the design and supervision of construction at Tung Song
Hong, and staff from the Estate Management Department will handle on-site
administration. A permanent unit will be established on-site to support
residents in completing or expanding their core units, administer materials



- 15 -
loans, enforce building regulations and manage the commercial and industrial
space. NHA's Slum Upgraiding Office, set up earlier this year, has sufficient
staff for one slum improvement team. NHA has agreed to create a second team
by early 1978 so that work can be carried on in several slums simultaneously.
NBA will establish an irLter-agency committee to coordinate assistance to small
businesses. It will make the initial contacts with entrepreneurs in both Tung
Song Hong and the slums and assist them in applying for loans; the Krung Thai
Bank will assess the proposals, grant the loans and collect repayments
(Section 2.01 of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       NHA will also coordinate with the agencies responsible for operating
and maintaining project facilities completed by NRA. For example, the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA) will be responsible for garbage collection
services in both the sites and services scheme and the slums, for maintenance
of roads, drains and footpaths in the slums, and for operation and maintenance
of all primary schools to be built. The Ministry of Public Health and BMA
will staff and operate the health center and any clinics to be included in
the project. The Metropolitan Water Works Authority will be responsible for
the operation anc maintenance of the water supply in the slum areas. The
Metropolitan Electricity Authority will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all elecltricity facilities. Finally, the Ministry of Education
and/or private groups w-ill be responsible for the operation and staffing of
day care centers.
Project Costs
50.       The estimated total cost of the project is $17.2 million ($16.4 mil-
lion plus $800,000 which was the cost of the Tung Song Hong site, acquired
several years ago by NHA), of which about $5.0 million (29%) is foreign
exchange and $500,000 represents taxes and duties. Infrastructure, community
and commercial facilities and core housing costs for the Tung Song Hong site
are based on preliminary engineering designs. The estimate for the King Petch
area is also based on preliminary engineering; the estimates for the other
four slums have been projected by NBA from the King Petch costs, and are
reasonable. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil works at Tung Song Hong
have been provided. A higher provision is made for physical contingencies for
the slum improvement component, 20% for King Petch and 30% for other slums.
Price escalation on all works, goods and services is based on an estimated
rate of inflation in Thailand of 9% per year during 1978-79 and 8% during
1980, amounting to an overall price contingency of about 15% over base (July
1977) cost. For consulting services to NHA, the foreign exchange cost has
been calculated on the basis of a unit cost of $6,000 per man-month for Estate
Management, $5,000 per man-month for organizational and financial management
and Engineering Design, and $3,000 per man-month for small business promotion
consulting services.
Financing
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $8.6 million would finance 50% of the
total project costs (net of taxes and duties); $5.0 million would cover
foreign exchange costs and $3.6 million would be applied toward local costs
The proposed loan will be made to the Kingdom of Thailand, which will relend
about 77% of the Bank loan ($6.6 million) to NHA with a term of 20 years,
including five years' grace, and interest at 7.5% p.a.; the balance, about



- 16 -
between the Government and NHA is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government will make an additional
$1.2 million equivalent available to NHA directly as grants, Krung Thai Bank
will make about $300,000 equivalent available for small business loans, and
NHA will provide about $6.4 million equivalent from its normal sources of
funds. The balance of $800,000 equivalent represents the cost of land at
Tung Song Hong.
Cost Recovery
52.       NHA has agreed to attempt maximum cost recovery for the sites and
services and slum improvement components in order to demonstrate the financial
viability and replicability of the project (Sections 2.08 and 2.10 of the
draft Project Agreement). For the sites and services component at Tung Song
Hong, the sale price of plots will cover land costs, site development, on-site
infrastructure and core housing (20-year loan at 12% interest rate, with a
10% down payment). Building materials loans will also be for 20 years at 12%
interest. The Government will finance the construction of community and
educational facilities, off-site infrastructure and technical assistance as
these are budgetary expenses that would normally be incurred by Government
agencies. The amortized capital costs of on-site water wells and the sewage
treatment plant will be recovered through a monthly service charge which would
also recover the full costs of managing the estate and of operating and
maintaining infrastructure. Under the assumption that households devote as
much as 30% of their income to housing, the Tung Song Hong scheme will be
affordable to families as low as the 14th percentile on the household income
curve for metropolitan Bangkok.
53.       In the case of slum upgrading, the capital and design costs of the
footpaths, drainage, canal dredging and solid wastes disposal will be recovered
directly from the residents through improvement fees to be added to land rents.
The improvements would be recovered over ten years at an annual interest rate
of 12%. After the initial ten years, rental income previously attributable to
cost recovery would be applied to further necessary improvements. Such monthly
payments represent 3% of the average monthly household income in King Petch.
In line with existing practice, electricity and water supply costs will be
recovered directly from monthly utility charges, and community facilities and
fire-fighting equipment will be financed from the general revenues of the
Government.
Procurement
54.       The project involves civil works which are labor-intensive, requiring
simple equipment and techniques well within the capabilities of local contrac-
tors. The civil works will be divided into five contract packages. The two
relatively large contracts for construction of (a) infrastructure and core
housing and (b) community and commercial facilities (US$6.5 and 3.5 million
respectively) will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The contract for land
filling at Tung Song Hong and contracts for improvements at various slums
will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with standard NHA procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.



- 17 -
Because of logistical problems involved in the slum improvements and the small
size of works involved, it may be difficult to find suitable contractors
willing to undertake these works. If this proves to be the case, NHA would
construct the improvements in the slums through force account. Materials
provided by NHA for house completion at Tung Song Hong will be purchased after
local competitive bidding in accordance with NHA's normal procedures, except
that contracts of less than $5,000, in an aggregate not exceeding $25,000, may
be let after prudent shopping.
Disbursements
55.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the following
basis: 55% of the cost of civil works and of building materials loans made
to Tung Song Hong residents, and 100% of expenditures made for consultancy
services, monitoring and evaluation studies, training and equipment. Disburse-
ment for all items would be made against standard Bank documentation except
possible expenditures for civil works by force account and loans made by NRA
for building materials, which would be disbursed against Statements of Expen-
diture, with the supporting documentation retained by NRA and held available
for inspection by Bank supervision missions. NHA intends to award the contracts
for land filling at Tung Song Hong and for improvements at King Petch early in
1978 in order to take advantage of the 1977/78 dry season. Retroactive
financing of about $300,000 is recommended to cover any eligible expenditures
from March 1, 1978, against these contracts prior to loan signature. It is
expected that Bank disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1981.
Justification
56.       The sites and services project is designed to demonstrate the
viability of a new approach to dealing with the housing requirements of
Bangkok's poor. It introduces an integrated approach to providing low-income
accommodation, community facilities and employment opportunities. The scheme
is designed to be self-financing and incorporates differential prices for
different land uses and plot sizes to create cross-subsidies within the
scheme, thus making it affordable by low-income families. The sites and
services scheme at Tung Song Hong will provide accommodation for about 3,000
families, all earning less than B 5,000 (US$250) per month. The project will
make 22% of the plot options available to families as low as the 14th percen-
tile on Bangkok's income-distribution curve. The project will also stimulate
the creation of approximately 1,500 jobs in the commercial/industrial estate
at Tung Song Hong and provide assistance through the small-scale business loan
program at King Petch and other slums for approximately 400 entrepreneurs.
57.       The slum improvement component will improve residents' environmental
sanitation and health conditions as well as provide them with a greater range
of social and economic services. In addition, secure long-term tenure arrange-
ments will be introduced, encouraging further improvements by the residents.
The project would directly benefit about 2,000 families now residing in King
Petch and a further 1,500 families in other slum areas, who are among the
poorest families in Bangkok. The current average household income in King
Petch is about B 2,800 (US$140) per month, which translates into a per capita
income of B 4,000 (US$200) per year.



- 18 -
58.       The measurement of economic benefits for the sites and services
scheme is based upon the imputed rental value of the dwellings to be con-
structed and the estimated market value of the land, plus buildings for the
commercial/industrial complex. On this basis, the estimated rate of return
is 17% for the housing component alone and 16% for the residential and
business components combined. Measurement of economic benefits of the slum
improvement component exemplified by King Petch is derived from the possible
increases in rental values resulting from the physical improvements; on this
basis, the rate of return is estimated to be 24%. Other associated direct
and indirect benefits, including improved health and consequent labor pro-
ductivity, are not precisely quantifiable by simple technqiues. The weighted
average economic return for the project as a whole is estimated at 16%.
Risks
59.       The project inherently entails some risk, being the first of its
kind to be undertaken by NHA. The unsubsidized plots at Tung Song Hong will
be offered to households nearly simultaneously with several of NHA's heavily-
subsidized conventional housing schemes, which could cause sales problems.
The risk is considered negligible, however, since the supply of units in this
price range is miniscule compared to the demand, and many households are
likely to prefer expandable core units on their own plots to walk-up flats.
60.       The major risk in the slum improvement component is the likelihood
that some private landlords in King Petch may be unwilling to pay for
improvements. However, even if none of the private landlords in King Petch
pays, approximately 80% of the directly recoverable project costs can still
be collectable from residents on Government land in the five slums to be
upgraded. The business component is small but novel for both NHA and Krung
Thai Bank and will require a high level of cooperation. and coordination
between the two agencies. In all, the risks associated with the project are
considered reasonable in view of the pilot nature of the project in dealing
with the shelter problems of the poor. It is anticipated that through
adequate supervision and monitoring of the project, the basic purpose of the
project can be successfully achieved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the NHA, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In
addition to the features of the Loan and Project Agreements which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following feature
is of particular interest; namely, that an additional condition of effectiveness
is execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement specifying the terms and conditions
for relending the proceeds of the proposed loan to NHA (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
April 11, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNE( I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
THAILAND            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  --
_______________                                   THAILAND                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1170)
TOTAL      514.0                                        MOST RECENT
ACRIC.      144.1                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES   KOREA REP.OF  JAPAN **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     100.0 *   210.0 *   380.0 A*              230.0 *    280.0 *  2630.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            26.6       36.3       43.0 /A             36.9        32.2        104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        52.0       71.0       84.0 L             123.0       327.0       260.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        212.0      263.0      298.0 L             375.0      1371.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          47.1       44.3       37.6                44.2        35.0         17.5
CRUDE OEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           19.8       13.7        9.1                13.2        11.4          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..       80.0       63.0                80.0        60.0        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        49.0       55.5       58.0                55.6        65.0        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        3.2        3.i                 3.3         2.6          1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        3.1        2.9                 3.0         2.3          1.0
URBAN                                  5.2        4.9        5.1                 4.0         6.4          4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           12.7       15.0       16.5                31.8         41.2        84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        43.0       45.1         ,                 45.6        42.1        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                        54.0       51.8         ,,                51.6        54.5        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.0        3.1         ,,                 2.8         3.4         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9          ..                0.9          0.6         0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENCENCY RATIO                0.9 /a     IIj A                          1.6          1.4         0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      470.0    2060.0                354.0      4424.7
USERS !% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..       10.G       26.6                 2.G        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         13700.0 A 16700.0 Db 17700.0              12300.0         10200.0    53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          82.0       79.0       76.0                55.O        50.5         19.0
UNEMPLOiED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        ..        7.0Oj               7.0         4.5          1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVAlE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             21.8 /C   220 /c                                      17.1        14.2
HTGHEST 20% CF HOUSEHOLDS             50.9 _r   51    7 I'                        ,,        44.5        37.2
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.2 /C    5.6  7       ..                  ..         7.i         6.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14.9             7 14-35  ..                          17.7        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..         .,                 .,        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                  .,        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..    7970.0   6750.0                     ..      2180.0 /.   880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..   6650.0    4330.0                            2170.0  C   240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1340.0 j  890.0        770.0               050.0      1900.0        80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES t% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      103.0      107.0               100.0       103.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               47.0       52.0       560  I/C            45.0        63.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       17.0 /d      ,                 22.0        19.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..        ..          .                 9.0          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                 .                81.0       8. 0/d            113.0        104.0      100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       7.0       16.0      19.0                49-0         4'.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.o                10.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENRCLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      19.0       14.0 /e   13.0 /d4e            6.0 1b      16.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       79.0       82.0                  *         87.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOEI (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                 2.1         2.7         1.0
OCCUDIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (,)                         ..         .          ,                 76.0        80.0 A       5-0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ,,         ,,       63. Ofdj            23.o        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         1. 13.0 /d                    7.0        33.0
CONSUAPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0       78.0       76.0                45.0       126.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        5.0        7.0 Ld              8.0         2.0        84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            23.0      124.0      164.0               235.0       307.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.7        1.0        1.4                 2.0         3.5        18.9
SEE----------NOTES-------------AND--_-_-___DEFINITI--------------________-S-____ON-------REVERSE_---___---___-
SEE NCOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
G CNP per capita data are based on the World Atlas methodiolgy (1974-76 basis).
Althoagh Japan's GNP per capita is much higher than that of Thailand, Japan has been selected as an objective country because Thailand's
develapnent process can reasonably be measured against that of Japan, an Asian country which is highly trade oriented, haa noved from an
agriculturally based to an industrially based economy, and in doing so has retained its cultural distinction.
THAILAND          1960    ta  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to econo.mislly active population age 11 and over;    /b  Econonically
active population age 11 and over          /c  1962-63, rural only;    /d  1962.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economically active population age 11 and over;    lb  Economically
active population age 11 and over;    /c  Rural only;    /d  1964-66;    /e  Public schools, which include technical
education at the post-secondary level.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE        Ia  1976;    /b  Bangkok only;    /c  1969-71 average;    /d  1971;    Ie  Public schools Which include
technical education at the post-secondary level;    /f  4s percent of population in Bangkok metro-
politrs  area;    /g  Other 67 provinces.
PHILIPPINES       1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational schools.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  Government estimate is 38.0;    /b  As percentage of employnent;    /c  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;
/d  Wster piped inside.
R12, August 16, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATDgS
Land Area (thbo  krao)                                                                       Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total sorface arta comprising land area and inland waters.                             mai.  nd female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Asric. - Most rocent estimate of agricuitorsl area used temporarily or perma-                  auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, tarket 6 kitchen gardens or to lie falls.                      PsPulstion per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and priv te general and specialised hsspitsl and
GNP per capita  (U1$) - GNP per capit. estimatess a  current  acrket prices,                    rehabilitation centers; e*cludes nursing homes and eatabliahlents for
calculated by same conversEis, method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (i  of requirsemnts) - Compated from energy
equivalent sf net fo-d supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic!                                                                av ilsble supplies comprise domestic pr-duction, imports less eaports, and
Population (mid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                   changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estimatss; 1960, 1970 ad 1975 data.                                          in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements wers  tscimated
by FAD based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Population density - per square km - Mid-year pupulation per square kilometer                  ering envirorommeal remperature, body weights, age and sex distribstioma  of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                                population, and allowing 107 for waste at beusehold level.
Population density - per souare be of agric. land - Computed as above for                    Per capita supely of prortin (arems per day) - Protein  -ontent of per capica
agricultural land only.                                                                      net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as aboye; require-
mesct  for a11  oountries established by USDA Exonsmic Resesrch Services
Vital statistics                                                                                provide fsr a mini-ma   allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. average - Annual live births per thousand of                     20 gram  of animal and puls  protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arith  etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 gras of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                               and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand, verage - Annual deatbe per thousand of mid-year                  in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritheetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from anil1 and puls  - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                        derived from animals and pulses in gras per day.
Infant mortality rate (i/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rats  (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                    years, to children in this age group; sggested as an indicator of
Life sxpecrascy at birth (vrs) - Average nombar of yeasrs of lifE  remainig o                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                             Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                  Adjusted  nrolleaunt ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11  ges as per-
in her nora l reproductivo poriod if she e. periences pr sent ago-specific                   centage of primary sbshol-age population; includes children Saed 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                    universal education, enrollmant nay emceed 1007 since some pupils are below
Population growth rate (7) - total - Compound annual growth rate  of mid-year                   or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adjusted earollomnt ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; seconday
Population growth rate  (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                        education requires at least four years of spproved primary ipstroction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                  provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupilx
data among countries,                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses soe generally ecluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 years of schooling provide d(fiste and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability of data among countries.                  schooling; at Secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially Or
completely excluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                  Vocational enrollment (7 of sacondary) - Vocational institutions  in ludc
and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                      technical, industrial or other program  which operate independently or as
Ago depexdency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   departmeots of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy rate (X) - Literate adulis (able to read and wtite) as per-
icotnoic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to                     rentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over
the labor force in ago group of 15-64 years.
faolly planning - accepturs (cuoulative,  thou) - Cumulative cmber of acceptors               Sousingi
of birth-coctrol devices under auspic-s of national family planning program                 Persons per room (urban) - Average s-bhr of persons per room in occupied
since inceptionP                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban arras; dwellings  -clode non-pe-manent
Family PlanninR - users (7 of married women) - Percentages of married women of                  structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married                occupied dwellings witrbot piped water (%) - Occupied convextional dwellings
women i, sane age group.                                                                      in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
E.mPloyVset                                                                                   Access to electricity (% of a11 dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Econoically active persons, including armed                      electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                   rural aress.
in variou  countries are not comparable.                                                    Rural dwellings connected to electricity (t) - Computed as sbove for rural
Labor force in agriculture (t) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Uneployed (% of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who                  Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out               Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for rsdio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimua  period not exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed recoives
oek; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                     in countries and in years when registration of radio nets was in effect;
of unemployed and semrco of data, e.g., employment office statitcs, sample                    data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance                                                    licensing.
Passenger care (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
Incom  distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                      less than eight persons; secludes ombulances, hearses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electricity (khb/yr per cap) - Annual consomption of industrial, commercial
public and private electricity in kilowtt hours perc capita, genst..lly
Distribution of land pvnership - Percentage- of land owned by we1athiest 107                    based on production data, without al11nsanne for losses in grids but allow-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                                ing for imports and exports of eleetricity.
Ne,aprint (kg/yr nor cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                             estimated from domestic production plus net imports of neesprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by utber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl.



ANNEX L
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                         _   Protected          w_ troth rates (Z) __                   1975 share
1965      1'970      1974       1975      1976/.      1977       1985    1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1965-9O  of LOP ()
A.  National Accounts
(Million 01$ at 1975 prices)
1.  Gross domestic product                7,045.8  10,627.8  13,827.7  14,590.0  15,503.0  16,619.3  27,494.0            7.6       6.7       6.5       6.5       100.0
2. Gains from terms of trade                -84.5      137.3      593.3         -       -46.6    -706.2    -919.2         -         -         -         -           -
3.  Gross doestic incone                  6,961.3  10,765.1  14,421.0  14,590.0  15,456.4  15,913.1  26,574.8             7.7      4.4       6.6       6.2       100.0
4.  Imports                               1,704.2   3,035.1   3,661.7   3,557.1   3,877.3   4,258.7   6,765.0            7.6       9.4       6.0       b.2        24.4
5.  Exports - volume                      1,619.1   2,215.7   2,710.3   2,852.3   3,478.2   4,118.5   6,845.4            5.0      20.2       6.0       7.5        19.5
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT            1,534.5   2,353.0   3,303.7   2,852.3   3,431.7   3,381.3   5,926.2            6.4       8.9       7.3       6.4        19.5
7.  Resource gap - adjusted for TOT         169.7      682.0      358.0      704.8      445.6      877.4      838.8            -         -              -           -
B,  Total consumption                     5,733.6   8,404.1  11,283.6  11,384.8  11,737.0  12,366.7  20,238.9            7.1       4.2       b.4       6.1        78.0
9.  -nvostneot                            1,397.4   3,043.2   3,495.4   3,910.0   4,211.4   4,423.8   7,174.7    10.8              6.4       6.2       6.4        26.8
10.  Domestic savings adjusted for TOT  1,227.7   2,361.0   3,137.4   3,205.2   3,719.0   3,546.4   6,335.9    10.1                 5.2       7.5       4.5        2'.0
11.  GDP at current 0$S                    4,052.9   6,543.3  13,450.0  14,590.0  16,199.0  18,796.2  53,533.2    13.7             13.5      14.U      15.8
S. Doctor Output
(Share of GOP)
1.  Agriculture                              0.343      0.304      0.276      0.273      0.265      0.263      0.218
2.  Codustry                                 0.230      0.251      0.273      0.275      0.279      0.285      0,320
3.  Services                                 0.427      0.445      0.451      0.452      0.456      0.452      0.462
C.  Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price index                        43.6       49.3      113.8      100.0      101.9       90.2      169.7      8.7      -3.0       8.2       5.b
2.  Import pri-e index                        46.0        46.4      93.4      100.0      103.2      109.9      188.0      0.1       4.8       7.0       6.8
3.  Terms of trade index                      94.8       106.2      121.9     100.0        98.7      82.1       8b.6      0.5      -9.4       0.7      -1.0
4.  GDP deflator (US$)                         57.5       61.6       97.3      100.0      104.8      108.8     187.5       5.7      4.3       7.0       8.7
5.  Annual average exchange rate               20.8       20.8       20.0      20.0       20.0
D.  Selected Indicators                         1965-75  1575-77  1977-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                    3.13      4.16      3.82      3.78
2.  Import elasticity                       1.00      1.40      0.92      0.96
3.  Average national savings rate           0.21      0.22      0.23      0.23
4.  M4arginal national savings rate         0.21      1).21     0.23      0.23
5.  Imports/GDP                             0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25
6.  Investrent/GOP                          0.26      0.26      0.26      0.26
7.  Resource gap/GDP                        0.03      3.04      0.02      0.01
Value added /b                         Labor force /c                      V.A. per gorier /b /c
E.  Output. Labor Force and Productivitv in 1975                 US$ million              X                million              7                US5             X of average
1.  Agriculture                                                  4,559              31.3               13.4              75.7                340                 41.5
2.  Industry                                                     4,442              30.4                1.4               7.9              3,170                356.7
3.  Services                                                     5,588              38.3                2,9              16.4              1,930                235.4
Total/average                                             14,589            100.0               17.7              100.0                a20                100.0
F.  Public Finance (X of GDP)                    1965       1970       1974       1975      1976        1977/c
(Central Government)
1.  Current revenue                            13.5      13.8       14.5       13.6       13.4
2.  Tax revenue                                12.3       12.5       13.5       12.0       12.1
3.  Current empeditures                        10.5       12.6       10.7      12.1        13.0
4.  Budgetary savings                           2.9        1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4
5.  Total public investment                     6.5        7.7       3.8        4.9        5.3
C.  Fuel Imports (Ctrrent US0  millions)           65.0      112.0      628.6      711.7      833.7      923.0
(% of total iports incl. NFS)                  8.3        8.0       18.4       20.0       21.1       19.7
/a  Prelininary.
/b  At current market prices.
Lc  Estimate.



ANNEX I
Fe.9 4 nf 4
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS, EXTCBRNAL ASSISTANCE, DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
(Current US$ millions)
Actual                                                 Projeted
1971        1972        1973         1974        1975       1976/a        1977        1985          1990
Suar  c-   Blace o   aect
E          -ports Icccluding NFS)                           1,210.0    1,532.0    2,084.7    3,085.8    2,851.4           3,560.4     3,714.9    11,618.4    22,065.8
Impcrts (iccluding NFS)                                     1,429.6     1,627.0    2,258.3    3,420:2    3,557.1          3,990.3    4,680.3    12,718.2    23,771.6
Re...rc.  nal- ece                                           -219.6       -95.0       -173.6      -334.4      -705.7       -430.1      -965.4    -1,099.8    -1,705.8
Net factor nervice i.co.e                                        1.4      -15.8        -20.8        -0.7          5.6       -42.4       -25.0        -567.8    -1,341.8
Net interest pay-eets                                        28.0         10.0         7.0        36.0         69.0        26.1        41.6        -375.3       -411.8
Of ahich oe public M 6 LT Icons                           -18.6       -19.9       -25.1        -28.1       -34.5       -46.7        -56.5       -308.7        -553.0
Direct ionestent income                                     -27.0       -26.0       -28.0        -37.0       -64.0        -68.5       -66.6       -192.5        -530.0
Workre      i-                                                              -           -           -            -           -            -           -              -
C-rrect tracefer-  (net)                                       43.5         59.5       145.5       245.9         81.7        23.2         50.0        100.0         300.0
3aLance on currentrnccoont                                   -174.7       -51.3        -48.9       -89.2      -618.4       -449.3      -94U.4    -1,567.6    -2,747.7
Pliea-o di-oct investn_nt                                      39.0         56.0        67.0       137.0         65.0        66.3       100.0         450.0      1,200.0
Grants & geant-like flivt
Poblic M & LT loane
Disburse_ents                                                47.9        50.4         69.0        95.9       149.2        241.7       333.4         827.7      1,183.8
Acnoreceotico                                               -21.8       -23.7       -29.8        -32.3       -38.7         43.4       -45.1       -252.5        -398.7
Nec dib.-osemr-t-                                            26.0        26.7         39.2        63.6       110.5        198.3       288.3         575.2        785.1
Oiher M & LT 1cant
Di----cemenes                                               234.0       247.0        179.0       416.0       392.0       360.2        525.0      1,462.9       3,081.6
AnocceLzation                                              -176.0      -167.0      -226.0       -229.0      -304.0        311.3      -375.0    -1,135.9    -2,324.2
N., disbr-eentsc                                             58.0        80.0       -47.0        187.0        88.0         48.8       150.0        327.0         757.4
Uteof'  resouccet                                                -            -           - .                      -         77.6
Sl-oce-te-n capital trannactlons                                 7.0        33.0        42.0        63.0        132.0       138.9       100.7         150.0        200.0
Capitol teansactioons NEI                                      54.5         47.6        60.7       120.6         27.0        -5.6           -         121.0        273.4
Change vT1 reserves (- = itccooc,                             -10.0      -192.0       -113.0      -482.0        195.0       -75.0       301.4          55.6       -468.3
Net frlcign eocingr-esorv-  /b (ed of peciod)                 777.0       969.0      1.082.0    1,564.0    1.369.0        1,444.0     1,347.8      2, 126.4      3,969.9
Official geacts-                                                              -           -           -
lotal p.lIic 9 & LT Ioas                                       61.9        141.4        41.1       436.5        223.4       372.3
IBRD                                                         27.0        81.3         15.0       142.0        95.3        158.0
100                                                            _           -          25.0         7.0          -            _
Oicee  oltllacecal                                          18.0         23.0         4.4        77.2         62.7        92.1
Co-eciseoc-                                                  15.8         37.4        24.0       200.5        47.7         22.2
Of  hich centrally planned economies /c
Sopplier_                                                     1.1                       -           -
Financial i-uit-coeo                                           -            -         16.7         9.7        18.0        100.0
NenceanonDum00ep
irantceleeno   of total co=~itments (l)                        23.3         30.6        47.4        31.4          0.2
Average Ineereet 7Y.)                                            6.4         6.0         3.9          5.7         7.6
Ador_ge _aturity  (ye-s)                                        19.9        28.9        29.3        23.8         23.2
Medin- and Lon-Teen Debt D     ibo     e      )
I'eal dbt ootl tanding (DOD end ol period)                    790.9        897.9       906.3     1,160.7      1,293.2     1,606.5
Includingondlubucned                                          956.3     1,162.5      1,184.8    1,770.0    2,029.2    2,403.7
Fubtic debt aeceict                                           -4U.5       -43.6       -54.9        -60.4       -73.2       -94.2
Icera                                                       -10.6       -19.9       -25.1        -28.1       -34.5       -46.7
Doher M & LIT dolt untoice                                    -I99.0      1i91 -525               -298.6      -383.4       -361.4
Total debl s-ei-ce                                           -239.5      -235.1       -313.6      -359.0      -456.6       -475.6
L9.8        15.3        15.0        11.6         16.5        13.4
Debt oervice ratio /d                                          22.0         17.0        16.4        12.8         18.3        15.7
Debe  -ervice/GDP                                                3.4         3.0         3.0         2.7          3.1         2.9
FPblic dObnt tortlcollceercneent enon                           4.1          4.0         4.3         3.2          4.3         4.3
I,t ... Ion total 0OD/total DOD                                 5.2          5.1         5.7         5.5          5.6         5.7
Total  nebt neei_ e/total DOI                                   11.3        11.2        12.4        11.8         11.9        11.5
Dependencv cation fcr M9 & iT Debt (Y)
Gioso disbursesents/ipurtm  (iSuloding NFS)                     19.7        18.3        11.0        15.0         15.2        17.5
tet teaneler!iapoets (unoi-diog NF0)                            3.0          3.8        -2.9         4.5         2.4          3.3
Net ta.ssfer/gros.  disbbrsm_ ents                             15.0         21.0       -26.4        29.9        15.6         22.7
inceaunre (7.)
I8DR disbursepents/gross ttotl dlsnoentn                        6.9         1.1I        14.8         6.6          7.6         7.2
Book ironG   dtsbcrseneetaIgenea total dieborseneot             6.9         10.1        14.8         6.8         801          8.3
IBRD DOD/totol DOD                                             21.4        21.3         24.1        20.8        20.0         18.6
Back Geoup DOD/total DOD                                       21.4         21.3        24.1        20.9        20.3         19.2
I000  debt tenle/tonab debt -eeeite                             9.1          4.2         7.9         7.7          7.0         7.6
Bank Group debft seeelcn/toE debt -ervice                       8.1          8.2         7.9         7.7          7.0         7.6
intera Deb  )ltore ony]staudin0 12/31776
(Correct L'55 milIlooc)                                     dteount         f
IbRD                                                          298.4        36.3
lank Geoup                                                    309.0         37.6
otine mutll-lo -1a                                            107. 1        13 .0
Othercu    iael                                               248.9        30.3
Of etic   __ cotrally planned ec_o_oi_e  -/
Suppli-rs                                                      17.0          2.1
Financial in-titotics                                        138.6         16.9
Bond s
PFblic debt no-
Iotal publie                                                  8 & Li debt  821.7  100.0
Other pablic M 6 LT debt                                      704.8         95.5
Other 0i & LT debt                                            784.8         95.5
Totol publie dePt (70ntiding  nndisb-rsed)                  1,606.5        195.5
Tocal n & LT debt (itoclding  _odisbur-ed)                  2,403.7       292.5
/a Preliai-ary.
/b Net foroigo onsets: USi eqni-ale-t of Line 31.
/c Includen COMA cocutries, People- cepublie of Chi.n, North EKe-a, Nerth Vint N-Ba.
/d Inelading set direot investeet isn.oe.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                           Less Cancellations
Credit No.   Year    Borrower                  Purpose         Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans fully disbursed                             374.4       -        -
822-TH        1972       RTG                   Education       15.4       -      8.8
864-TH        1972       TOT                   Telecomm        37.0       -      7.0
870-TH        1972       RTG                   Highways        28.6       -      2.8
369-TH        1973       RTG                   Education          -   19.5       8.3
379-TH        1973       RTG                   Irrigation         -    5.5       0.1
898-TH        1973       SRT                   Railways        15.0       -      0.5
461-TH        1974       RTG                   Irrigation         -    7.0       3.1
977-TH        1974       EGAT                  Power           75.0       -    33.7
992-TH        1974       IF'CT                 Industry        12.0       -      1.9
1021-TH       1974       MVWA                  Water           55.0       -    28.6
1149-TH       1975       RI'G                  Irrigation    95.0         -    85.5
1198T-TH ISF 1976        RIG                   Rural Dev.      21.0       -    19.2
1199T-TH ISF 1976        RT'G                  Livestock        5.0       -      4.8
1243-TH       1976       RT'G                  Rubber          50.0       -    47.6
1253-TH       1976       TOT                   Telecomm        26.0       -    21.3
1271-TH       1976       RT'G                  Education       31.0       -    29.8
1327-TH       1976       IIPCT                 Industry        25.0       -    24.7
1393-TH       1977       R1'G                  Agriculture   28.0         -    27.7
1468-TH       1977       R1'G                  Irrigation    55.0         -    54.8
1485-TH       1977       EGAT                  Power           50.0       -    47.6
1492-TH       1977       IEAT                  Industry         4.8       -     4.8
767-TH /a    1978        RTG                   Population        -      33.1   33.1
Total                                           1,003.2    65.1  495.7
of which has been repaid                        166.2       -
Total now outsitanding                             837.0    65.1
Amount sold /b                      68.5
of which has been repaid          32.5           36.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    801.0    65.1
Total undisbursed                                 451.1    44.6
/a  Signed in February, 1978 but not yet effective.  In March 1978, two loans
of $25 million and $110 million for rural electrification (1527-TH) and
provincial roads (1519-TH) respectively were signed but are not yet
effective.
/b Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amounts ($ million)
Year          Company             Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                  0.30       -      0.30
1964   IFCT                       Industry                   -   0.38       0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group          Cement and Construc-
tion Materials       18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group          Cement and
Construction
Materials            10.00       -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund                Capital Market
Company Limited                                     -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar               Food and Food
Terminal Limited          Processing            2.50   0.20       2.70
Total gross commitments /a                       31.13   4.63    35.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          20.03   2.35    22.38
Net held by the Corporation                      11.10   2.28    13.38
/a In March, 1978, a credit of $2 million to Siam Commercial Bank was
approved but not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1978)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This project involves development of Kasetsart University and
the relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical
assistance and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule,
civil works are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in
furniture and equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to:
(a) an initial 15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an
18-month delay in completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in
contracting civil works. The situation of contract awards is improving:
about 75% of the civil works and 50% of equipment packages have been awarded,
and remaining bid packages for civil works ($6.0 million) are in the process
of being awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages will be
contracted in late 1978.  Contracted construction is progressing well, and the
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. All the
fellowships have been awarcded; 84 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 36%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projec:ts in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. The procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed and $36.1 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed. The balance of $0.9 million will be
committed in 1978. About 77% of the local telephone network expansion has
been completed and the balance will be completed by July 1978. Procurement of
long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan has been delayed
which will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979, two years
and nine months behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action has been initiated on all components of the
project. The Loan is expected to be fully committed by in FY78. Civil
works are in progress. Local network expansion is expected to be completed as
per schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's delay in tender award for trans-
mission equipment under a bilateral loan, the long-distance network expansion
for the project is only expected to be completed by September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976.  Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1977
About $504,000 remaining in the project account was cancelled on
February 15, 1978.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Dalte: June 30, 1978
The project is albout 90% complete and should be completed by June
1978. Construction has been somewhat delayed because of procurement difficul-
ties for civil works. However, disbursements are in line with appraisal
estimates. Yields and cropping intensities on the completed parts of the
project are roughly equal to appraisal estimates. A project extension service
has been set up and is operating satisfactorily.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is aLbout one year behind schedule due to delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace of construc-
tion, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is being made in developing agricultural extension
services in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million,
or about 96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due
to price inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large
part of the increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over
the entire project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has improved due to strengthened project management and organization.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about a
year, prospects are good that the revised schedule can be adhered to. A
contract was recently awarded for the first of four major civil works contracts;
tenders have been received for the second contract; and most of the equipment
for the project is delivered or on order. The on-farm works are proceeding on



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
schedule, with four pilot projects in operation. The consulting services for
the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident staff
and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for monitor-
ing project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established and
the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the Loan, has been completed, and
the next phase is continuing. Work will begin soon on a feasibility study for
the Phitsanulok II Project. Consultants are being selected for the RID
Administration and Organization Study.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. The upland crop component has been
delayed by staffing and organizational problems.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory.  The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date:  January 14, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progress:Lng satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1393    National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well; costs remain close to
the appraisal estimate, but disbursements are slightly behind schedule, mainly
due to lengthy procurement procedures. Disbursements are expected to be close
to, or ahead of, the appraisal estimate in 1978. Additional supervisory staff
appointments at district and provincial level will be made and the overall
system of training and visits will be further improved. Proposals for monitor-
ing are being prepared, a project accounting system is being established, and
monthly reports are presented in a timely manner.
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao NerL Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1485    Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory. The main civil works
contract was awarded in October 1977 and preparatory works are under way.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 cu m/day capacity and
transmission tunnels and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) includes trunk mains, distribution pipes,
tubewells and purchase of water meters. All contracts of the IBRD project
have been awarded and construction accomplishment, as measured by contractor



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
earnings, is 43%. Due to delays in the award of contracts, the project
completion will probably be delayed by about 18 months to the last half of
1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's
financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the
water tariffs in line with the increased operating costs, shelved by the
previous Government, have now been submitted to the new Government.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327    Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.
Loan No. 1492    The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million of December 5. 1977; Effective Date: March 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Declared effective on March 24, 1978.
Credit No. 767   Population Project; $33.1 Million of February 27, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Credit signed but not yet effective.
Loan No. 1527    The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
of March 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Loan signed but not yet effective.
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
of March 23, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Loan signed but not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of approximately one
year: mid-1976 to mid-1977.
(b) The project was prepared by the National Housing Authority.
(c) The project was first proposed to the Bank in late 1975.
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  July 1977.
(e) Completion of negotiations: February 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: none
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i) exchange viiews with the Bank regarding any changes proposed
in NHA's financial arrangements, criteria for cost recovery
and/or construction program (para. 32);
(ii)  share with the Bank the results of the review of Thai legisla-
tion affecting privately owned land in slum areas and take such
action as required to enable improvements to be undertaken in
such areas (para. 33);
(iii)  compensate adequately those families who must be relocated due
to slum improvements (para. 40); and
(iv) ensure that Krung Thai Bank provides adequate staff and loan
funds to make small business loans available to project benefici-
aries (para. 47).
(b) The NHA has agreed to:
(i) apply criteria for determining eligibility of participants
in the Sites and services scheme at Tung Song Hong and terms
for the hire purchase agreement which are acceptable to the Bank
(para. 39),



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) elicit the views and support of residents in slums to be improved
concerning works to be undertaken (para. 41);
(iii) keep separate accounts for project activities (para. 46);
(iv) assign adequate staff to the project (para. 48);
(v) establish an inter-agency committee to coordinate assistance to
small businesses (para. 48); and
(vi) recover, to the maximum extent feasible, the cost of the
project from its beneficiaries (para. 52).
(c) An additional condition of effectiveness is the execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and NRA (para. 51).



iBRD 12389R
CHAROENPHOL  <  j"",                                         / z.? , 1C0BANGKOK  SITES AND SERVICES AND
C3 . 1l=t __/ fj' / ~~~SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
k - KING  PE TCH SLUM  IMPROVEMENT PLAN
X  X      t                 X               /                                                      t79   Mul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.tif-up-sC-mnn-ty Facilities  lmen.
_   -     /     0-  /                   <          4?                                                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~We S.pply L- 2575- Po  Lih lnd[ust  y
0       2,0     41       6,0      31      100                        _    =~-      Kl..gs and Ri-es
-METERS 
FEET                                                                                                         MARCHI197r5






lORD IS129R
THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TUNG SONG HONG SITES AND SERVICES
Proposed Site Layout
rYPIC-AL LOT LAYOUTS
0   2o    40  0    o p 1' 0   12 0 lao   ItO  'CO
\\___|.: Residential Are-                  Mai Road                                                                                                     METEPS
Com-unty Faciliry      :          Secondary Roads               *    Tub-we Is
[ EducationalFaoRlites -t-                 M ain PedestrianRoRds              Waste WaerTreatment-Plant          r
i  II Commer-ial Facility                  Foot Path                                                                                       rmr ,tho o,oSoooo
Oip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sp.c. P.,k,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00m0 ic 000
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- W                                         -F                                                                                                      -1=- T ;[ 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPICAL  -------- IY2 '-2"G I Pip.                      ~TYP CAL       -----V Shape(30Cm Wide 15Cm Deep)TYIA                                      -----1   .              T,ty
WATER SUPPLY      ---10Cm  AC Pipe                                          STORM DRAIN    ---Reorang lorl(50 Cm Wide;30Cm.Deep)                          SEWERAGE       --      15 Cm.-20Cm AC Pipe(Laeals|\)
NETWORK                 20 C. Mam AC                                        NETWORK                               - W,d.,25Cm.D-p)                      NETWORK                25Cm-30Cm R C. Pip. (Tnk)
25Cm Mai:AC                                                        -    R -t-gubr(30C.WId.;30Cm,D-P)3 -30                                                C--50Cm R. C. Ppeip. iarTruLk)                   BANGKOK           &           t
t      rreHydrants                                                         Trape..sdalR80Cm.90C- SROCDDeeP)                                      0    Man  sa.    _-.






THAILAND
BANGKOK SITES AND SERVICES AND                                 /                                                          RANGSIT
SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                        \
_ S  rte and seruices area                                                 1fr&       i
*  0 Slum 'inpruueirint oreas                                                       ;       \_ 
LAND USE, 1976\
_ouucrrment areas 0_s tX
U tiaes ermine areasst\_t  
5  Industrl areps 
Paris arid opan rpacesS                                                 8     \     t
EZ   onserc-al -nd htgh density housing areas
E      ium  density housngareas                                                 /
Laf density h-sing areas
[111 Vcant or agricultural oes/g                  $       Jf                              t
E5XSTING
M\ain at ter,arI reads       l          -           1            -f    \\_
+-u--m -t-mil-ay
t loogs and riceis    oS                     r_NG 
KI-g -                                                                 't      rs    , 
TUGSONG 
'-=<~~~~di
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
THAILAND           THOBUR
a C      Rucuku
rittupui1N3 tich  e=~Yf 
hudrS   5hpt   5o'5m#/; ///tS ; _ .:,
5 - LEPEOmPLE'  V E~T NfJ.-,>                                            4r\/                /      < 
<      gg DE~~M REPIJELIC                                 ;          i!,re           J 
a         .T,  r:.l of  >   't                                                     :     C
I   H A I L A N D    \qi                                               y     -       ;      v.                                           _
5  1   2  5   4  5  u                              f 5  5  T                                                       net
3    __ _,, Su                               f oft  uir
-A, ,AY5                                                                               ,oiood



