CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1556 TH
Project Agreement
(Bangkok Sites and Services
and Slum Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
Dated June 15, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1556 TH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY (hereinafter called NHA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million six
hundred thousand dollars ($8,600,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NHA
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as herein-
after set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and NHA, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to NHA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NHA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NHA shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide,


﻿-2-
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds (including
an adequate amount of working capital), facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Section, NHA shall: (i) continue to
employ a Project Manager responsible for the efficient carrying
out of the Project, whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, and assign a Deputy Project Manager and
an Accountant to assist him; (ii) establish, in a timely manner,
implementation teams to which shall be assigned an adequate number
of qualified and experienced staff, responsible to the Project
Manager; (iii) assign to or, if necessary, recruit sufficient
qualified and experienced staff for its Slum Upgrading Office,
its Commercial Section and Site Administration Office at Tung Song
Hong, to enable NRA to undertake the additional work involved in
carrying out the Project; and (iv) establish and maintain in
existence until the completion of the Project, a committee to
coordinate the provision of small-scale business loans under Parts
A (vi) and B (iii) of the Project, whose composition and pro-
cedures shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist NHA in reviewing and im-
proving its (i) organization and financial management procedures;
(ii) estate management procedures; (iii) small-scale business
promotion procedures; (iv) engineering design standards; and (v)
project monitoring and evaluation procedures, NHA shall promptly
employ financial management, estate management, business promo-
tion, engineering design and project evaluation consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement by NHA of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NHA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by NHA to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 3 -
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to NHA by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) NHA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) NHA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (ili) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost, its administration
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
NRA, NHA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost P.d
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Bank and NHA of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. NHA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NHA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NHA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the acquisition of the land or rights in respect of land


﻿required by NHA for carrying out the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) NHA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by NHA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. NHA shall, in carrying out Part A of the
Project:
(a) Establish beneficiary selection criteria that are
satisfactory to the Bank for: (i) residential sites; and (ii)
sites for commercial use and for small-scale industry.
(b) Determine, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
prices for the sale of residential sites and for the sale or lease
of sites for commercial use or for small-scale industry that are
sufficient to recover the full cost of the land, earthworks,
on-site infrastructure, core housing and commercial or industrial
facilities; and (ii) a monthly service charge, based on the
size of the site, to be paid by each beneficiary that will be
sufficient to recover the full recurrent costs of site adminis-
tration and of operating and maintaining the infrastructure (to
the extent that such costs are not recovered through taxes and
utility charges) and the full cost of the water wells and sewage
treatment plant in the sites and services area in Tung Song
Hong.
(c) Prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a standard
agreement for the sale of residential sites that provides, inter
alia, that the beneficiary: (i) will pay a purchase price for the
site that has been determined in accordance with the provisions of
sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this Section; (ii) must physically occupy
the site within one year of its being ready for occupation; (iii)
may not, within five years of the site being ready for occupation,
sub-let the whole of the site or transfer the lease in respect of
the site, without the written approval of NHA; (iv) will not be
given a freehold title to the site, as opposed to a right of
occupancy, until NHA has been paid the full purchase price of such
plot; (v) must make a downpayment of not less than 10% of such
purchase price prior to the signature of the agreement of sale and


﻿-5-
pay the balance, plus interest at the rate of 12% per annum,
within 20 years; and (vi) must promptly pay to NHA the service
charge provided for in sub-paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section
within 30 days of it becoming due and payable.
(d) Prepare, in consultation with the Bank and by June 30,
1978, standard agreements for the sale or lease of sites for
commercial use and for small-scale industry that provide, inter
alia, that: (i) the purchase price of each site to be sold
shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, with a downpayment of not less
than 20% of such purchase price and the balance, plus interest at
the rate of 12% per annum, to be paid within 15 years; and (ii)
the rental for each site to be leased shall be calculated in
accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this
Section, plus interest at the rate of 12% per annum over a period
of 20 years.
(e) Review with the Bank, at least once each year until
the completion of the Project and revise, if necessary, and
in consultation with the Bank, the terms and conditions included
in the agreements of sale or lease that are referred to above.
Section 2.09. NHA shall, prior to making a final decision on
the nature and extent of the upgrading and infrastructure services
to be provided in the areas included in Part B of the Project,
continue to elicit the views of the residents in these areas on,
and seek their support for, the provision of such upgrading and
infrastructure services.
Section 2.10. NHA shall, in carrying out Part B of the
Project and, to the extent possible, in all future slum improve-
ment projects undertaken by NHA: (i) grant, to residents on land
owned by the Borrower, 20 year leases to residents in the five
slum improvement areas included in this Part of the Project on
terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank and which
provide, inter alia, that the rental to be paid under the lease
will be sufficient to recover the full cost of the footpaths,
drainage, canal dredging and solid waste disposal facilities and
services constructed or undertaken in such areas, together with
interest thereon at the rate of 12% per annum over a period of 10
years; (ii) use its best efforts to ensure that long term leases
on substantially similar terms are granted to residents in such
areas whose plots or houses are not owned or controlled by NHA,
with the owner of such plots or houses assuming responsibility for


﻿- 6 -
the payment to NHA of the infrastructure costs specified in
sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) review with the Bank, at least
once each year until the completion of the Project and revise, if
necessary, and in consultation with the Bank, the terms and
conditions included in the lease agreements referred to above.
Section 2ll. NHA shall, in consultation with K.TB and NISD,
assist residents in the Project Areas to obtain, when this is
appropriate, the small-scale business loans and other assistance
specified in Parts A (vi), B (iii) and C of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NHA
Section 3.01. NHA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. NHA shall: (i) provide the Bank with copies
of the reports prepared by the consultants referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement, promptly after their completion; (ii)
exchange views with the Bank regarding the recommendations made
by such consultants in their reports; and (iii) take, or cause
to be taken, the action necessary to implement the recommenda-
tions mutually acceptable to the Bank and to NHA.
Section 3.03. NHA shall, at all times, manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate town
planning, technical, financial and administrative practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NHA shall: (i) maintain separate Project
accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices its operations and financial condition in respect of the
Project; (ii) open a separate Project bank account to which will
be credited the proceeds of the Loan made available to NHA under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) ensure that, at all


﻿-7-
times, an adequate working capital balance is maintained in such
Project bank account with which to finance the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.02. NHA shall: (i) have its Project accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the Project accounts and financial statements of NHA
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of NHA thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Bank shall promptly so notify NHA.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provision&
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 8 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NHA:
National Housing Authority
Klongchan
Bankapi
Bangkok 24
Thailand
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NHA may be taken or executed by the
Governor of NHA or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and NHA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿-9-
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Bangkok,
Thailand, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Stanley Please
Director
Country Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
By /s/ Narongdej Prasit
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for civil
works shall be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For civil works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project, NHA shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. NRA shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, NHA may:
(i) award contracts for land filling, access roads in Tung Song
Hong and slum improvement works by means of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with NHA's normal procedures;
(ii) when the Bank and NRA agree that this is appropriate, under-
take civil works for slum improvement by force account, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) purchase
equipment under Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 through
prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations;
and (iv) procure materials for house completion that are made
available under Category (2) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement by means of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with NHA's normal procedures, except that materials


﻿- 11 -
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000 may
be purchased through prudent shopping.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the following pro-
cedures shall apply to all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, NHA shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NHA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform NHA and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan that, with the agreement of the Bank, are
excluded from the procedure set forth in the preceding paragraph,
NHA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the


﻿- 12 -
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably requesL. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and NHA and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


