RESTRICTED
Report No. PE-46a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized orpnizations
or persons. It rmay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
CAMEROON
June 6, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALINTS
1 US Dollar            = CFA Francs 255.8
CFA Franc 1           = US$ 0.0039
CFA Francs 100         = US$ 0.39
CFA Francs 1 million  = US$ 3,909
Measures
1 M2        = 1.196 sq. yd.
1 m2        - 10.764 sq. ft.
1 kn2       = 0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare   = 2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Note: Since this appraisal report was written, the Governments of
East and West Cameroon have been consolidated into one central
government, and the Federal Republic of Cameroon has become
the United Republic of Cameroon.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....       ..................   i
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................          1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ........................           2
Background .......       .............................   2
Economic Development Strategy ....      .............    3
III.   EDUCATION SECTOR ..............................           3
The Education System and Strategy ....     .........     3
Education Finance .......      ......................    9
External Aid .........     .........................    11
IV.   THIE  PROJECT   ...................................      12
General .    .......................................    12
Primary Teacher Training Colleges - Garoua,
Nkongsamba and Kumba ......      ..................   13
Ecole Normale Superieure (E.N.S.), Yaounde              13
Demonstration Upper Secondary School (Lycee),
Yaounde ............    .........................     13
Technical Secondary Schools and Teacher
Training Section, Garoua and Douala    .........      13
Adult Vocational Guidance and Training
Center (CESPE), Douala .....      .................   14
Pre-Investment Study of Agricultural and
Rural Training .......      .......................   14
Pre-Investment Study of Technical Education and
Vocational Training Requirements in the
Northern Region .......      ......................   15
Technical Assistance ......      ....................   15
Cost of the Project ......      .....................   16
Recurrent Costs ..............                          17
V.   IMPLEMENTATION .......       .........................   18
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATION    .........       19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Federal Republic of Cameroon in November/December 1971. The mission consisted
of Messrs. A. Salmon (General Educator), A. C. Tsantis (Economist), R. Lesire
(Agricultural Educator, FAO), C. L. Molineaux (Architect-Consultant) and
G. Motel (Technical Educator, ILO).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
APPENDICES
I    The Education and Training System
II    The Principles of the Reform
III    Manpower Requirements
IV    Education Finance
V    External Aid
VI    Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1    Comparative Indicators
2    General Education Development
3    Public Recurrent Expenditures on Education
and Training (1965-70)
4    Capital Expenditures on Education and Training
and Sources of Finance (1966-76)
5    The Project Items
6    The Project Costs by Types of Expenditures
7    Unit Capital Cost and Use Factor
8    Contingency Allowance
9    Project Implementation Schedule
10    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
I    Organization of Federal and Federated
Educational Authorities
II    Structure of the Education System
III    Organization of the Federal Ministry of Education,
Culture and Vocational Training
IV    Educational Pyramid (1970-71)
MAP



GLOSSARY
Baccalaureat:       Upper secondary diploma (French system)
Brevet:             Lower general secondary diploma (French system)
C.A.P.:             Lower technical secondary certificate (French system)
(Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle)
C.A.P.C.E.G:        Lower secondary school teacher degree (Certificat
d'Aptitude au Professorat de Collge d'Enseignement General)
C.A.P.E.:           Junior Primary Teacher Diploma (Certificat d'Aptitude
Pe'dagogique El6mentaire)
C.A.P.E.S.:         Upper secondary school teacher degree (Certificat
d'Aptitude au Professorat de l'Enseignement Secondaire)
C.A.S.T.:           College of Arts, Science and Technology (West Cameroon
upper secondary school)
C.E.G. or C.E.S.:   Lower general secondary school (College d'Enseignement
Gdn4ral - College d'Enseignement Secondaire)
C.E.S.P.E.:         Adult vocational guidance and training center (Centre de
S6lection, de Formation et de Perfectionnement
professionnel du personnel des Entreprises)
C.E.T.:             Lower technical secondary school (College d'Enseignement
Technique)
C.F.Z.V.;           Veterinary secondary school (Centre de Formation
Zoo-V4t4rinaire)
D.E.S.:             University degree awarded after completion of second cycle
studies at the Faculty of Arts, Science or Law (Diplome
d'Etudes Superieure
D.U.iE.L./D.U.E.S.: University degrees awarded after completion of first
cycle studies at the Faculty of Arts or Science
(DiplOme Universitaire d'Jktudes Litt4raires ou
Scientifiques)
Ecole Normale bu-   Secondary teacher, primary inspector  and youth and
p4rieure or E.N.S.:  sports inspector training college
t.F.6.A.:           Federal higher school of agriculture (Ecole Fe'dgrale
Superieure d'Agriculture)
E.T.A.;             Lower secondary school of agriculture (Ecole Technique
d'Agriculture)
F.,a.Ge:            French bilateral aid agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)



GLOSbARY (Continued)
Fa. *D.             European Conmmimity aid agency (Fonds Europgen
de Ddveloppement)
G.C.L. A'Level:     Upper secondary diploma (British system) (General
Certificate of Education - Advanced Level)
G.C.E. O'Level:     Lower secondary diploma (British system) (General
Certificate of Education - Ordinary Level)
Ingenieur agronoae: Agronomist (Professional level)
I.P.A.R.:           Primary education reform center (Institut de Pedagogie
Appliquee a Vocation Rurale)
License:            University degree awarded after three years (Arts and
Science) and four years (Law) of faculty studies
Lycee:              Upper general secondary school
Lyce'e Technique:    Upper technical secondary school
M.E.G.:             East Cameroon junior primary teacher trained over two
years after primary school (Maitre d'Enseignement
G&n4ral)
"Post Primary":     Vocational training (craft, domestic science, home
economics) offered after primary school but not usually
considered as secondary technical education
P.T.T.C.:           Primary teacher training college.



CAMEROON
BASIC DATA(1)
(1970-73)
Population                               5.9 million
Annual growth rate                       2.1%
National distribution                    Francophone 6ast Cameroon 80%
Anglophone West Cameroon 20%
Rural population                         4.6 million (78%)
Economically active population           3.1 million
Modern sector employment                 170,000 (5.5% of active population)
Traditional sector employment            2.9 million (mostly in agriculture)
GDP growth rate (1967-1971)              6.4% p.a. (in constant prices)
GDP per capita                           $187
Levels of            Student                        Enrollzents
Education            Numbers                          Ratio .
Primary              934,000   (92.3%)                  74%
Secondary              75,400   ( 7.4%)                  8%
Higher                  2,700   ( 0.3%)               0.3%
Public expenditures on education and training (1969-70)        CFAF 8.4 billion
As percentage of GDP                                         3%
As percentage of consolidated expenditures                  20%
/ Also see Annex I for Comparative Education Data
2/ As percentage of age group






SUMMARY ANT) CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project for Cameroon
for which an IDA credit of US$9.0 million is proposed. The project would
provide further assistance in the priority areas included within the first
education project - primary and secondary educational reform, teacher
training, and technical secondary education. It would also provide assist-
ance for non-formal adult vocational training and agricultural and rural
education. Both projects would help modernize and improve the training of
the personnel required for the balanced development of the various economic
sectors and regions of Cameroon.
ii.       The complex administrative and socio-political structure of
Cameroon, a result of its dual Anglo-French colonial history, poses serious
obstacles to developing a modern educational system capable of meeting the
country's development needs. English-speaking West Cameroon and French-
speaking East Cameroon, the two states of the republic, follow different
educational patterns; this, together with original regional and ethnic
differences, has created a country where regional differences predominate.
The government would like to use education to assist in achieving its aim
of unifying the country and redressing regional imbalances; yet, the educa-
ition system itself suffers from the same deficiencies it would have to
cure.
iii.      In the circumstances, the government has devised an educational
development strategy which places highest priority on creating an inte-
grated education system for the entire country, and also on expanding and
upgrading education in those regions of the country most hampered by its
lack, particularly the northern region of East Cameroon. Levels of educa-
tion which are most prominent within this overall strategy are primary and
secondary education where reform is intended to provide the underlying
framework for further development of the entire system.
iv.       Aside from, though related to, these general education requirements,
the country has immediate need for trained technicians and skilled workers
to meet its economic development targets over the decade. Increasing short-
ages of such workers became apparent in the late 1960's when industry and
commerce grew rapidly. Moreover, a large proportion of professional (85%)
and sub-professional (46%) staffs are expatriates. The current vocational
and technical education system is unable to produce sufficient and appro-
priately trained numbers of workers needed for employment in modern industry
and commerce. For this reason, the government is placing importance in its
present planning on expanding and improving vocational and technical training.
It would also like to draw up similar specific plans for training agricultural
personnel as it is generally recognized that a need exists for significant
numbers of them to achieve agricultural growth; but at the present time, there
is not a base on which to build an agricultural and rural training plan. This
can be mainly attributed to the dispersion of responsibility for agricultural
training among three state ministries and to the absence of a federal ministry
of agriculture (Chart I).



- ii -
v.        The proposed project would assist the government in implementing
its general educational strategy and in meeting specific needs in techni-
cal training. Primary and secondary teachers would be trained under the
project in accordance with the reform that has been planned to integrate
and improve education at these levels; and the widespread adoption of pri-
mary curriculum reform in West Cameroon would be supported. With the help
of the proposed project, skilled workers, technicians and technical teachers
would be trained in the areas of the country most in need of them; the pro-
posed technician training college in the north would be the first and only
such institution in that region. A pre-investment study of technical educa-
tion and vocational training requirements in the northern region, initiated
after the results of the on-going labor market study expected in June 1972,
would assist the government in adjusting its educational plans to new prior-
ities in the region. In addition, the government would be assisted in for-
mulating an agricultural and rural training development policy through the
provision of a pre-investment study in this field.
vi.        Specifically the project would consist of:
(a) construction and equipment for:
-  three primary teacher training colleges (one new and
two extended); one of these would include a center for
primary education reform and teaching material produc-
tion;
-  extension of one secondary teacher and primary inspector
training college;
-  one new demonstration upper general secondary school;
-  two new technical secondary schools; one would include
a workshop teacher training section; and
-  one new adult vocational training center;
(b) pre-investment studies regarding agricultural education and
rural training on a national basis and technical education
and vocational training requirements in the northern region;
and
(c) related technical assistance to implement the program and
fellowships for the training of counterparts.
vii.      The project implementation unit of the first project would be
appropriately reinforced to provide overall supervision of the second proj-
ect as well, and its related costs would be included within the project
cost. Contracts for all civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded in conformity with the Association's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids,
manufacturers in Cameroon or in the Customs Union of Central African States



- iii -
would be accorded a margin of preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports, or the generally applicable existing level of customs
duties, whichever is the lower. All imported materials and services related
to the Project would, however, be exempted from duties and taxes.
viii.     The proposed project is estimated to cost US$11.4 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$7.9 million (about 70% of the total cost).
The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$9.0 million, equal
to 80% of the total cost of the project, which would meet the full estimated
foreign exchange component and 32% of the local costs.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A first IDA education project in Cameroon (Credit No. 161-CM,
signed in September, 1969) provided US$10.5 million to assist the govern-
ment in improving education by expanding and upgrading: (a) primary and
secondary teacher training, (b) general and technical secondary education,
and (c) agricultural secondary and higher education. Because of delays in
selecting architects and agreeing on schedules of accommodations for proj-
ect institutions, implementation is nine months behind schedule in East
Cameroon and 12 months in West Cameroon. Bids received for the construc-
tion of the project schools were 50% to 92% above the estimated costs; de-
signs are now being revised and new tenders will be invited.
1.02      The first project will meet the immediate identifiable needs of
West Cameroon, but does not cover all those presently defined for East
Cameroon. For this reason, the proposed second project was developed to
meet primarily these needs in East Cameroon and to provide assistance in
defining further the needs in West Cameroon. A Unesco mission to Cameroon
in November, 1970, identified this second education project for IDA fi-
nancing. After brief IDA reconnaissance missions in June and October 1971,
agreement was reached with the government on the project items, which were
prepared in October-November 1971 with Unesco assistance. The project was
appraised in November-December 1971 by a mission comprising Messrs.
A. Salmon (general educator), A. C. Tsantis (economist), R. Lesire (agri-
cultural educator-FAO), C. L. Molineaux (architect-consultant) and G. Motel
(technical educator-ILO).
1.03      During appraisal the project was modified as follows:  (a) a lower
technical school was deleted because of an insufficient projected supply of
qualified students; (b) three agricultural and one veterinary secondary
schools were deleted because of incomplete planning; (c) expansion of a
Higher School of Agriculture was deleted because the proposed new facilities
were intended for uneconomically small groups; (d) technical assistance for
technical schools was eliminated because of expected bilateral financing;
and (e) a pre-investment study of agricultural training was added in order
to determine the needs of this sub-sector and how they might best be met.
1.04      During negotiations, a pre-investment study of technical education
and vocational training requirements in the northern region was added to as-
sist the government in adjusting its educational plans to new priorities.
1.05      The project, as modified, would now provide financing for:
(a)  teacher training at primary and secondary levels and
primary curriculum reform development;
(b)  technical secondary and adult vocational training,
including teacher training;



- 2 -
(c)  pre-investment studies regarding agricultural educa-
tion and rural training on a national basis and tech-
nical education and vocational training requirements
in the northern region; and
(d)  related technical assistance to organize and implement
training programs.
1.06      All project institutions would be in East Cameroon, except one
primary teacher training college with the center for primary education
curricular reform and teaching material production.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Background
2.01      Cameroon is a federal republic composed of two states with dif-
ferent languages and administrative traditions. Since its establishment
as a unified country in 1961, Cameroon has made substantial progress in
the difficult path of unification of both states. Yet, there are still
marked differences, in addition to a major language barrier between the
two states: francophone East Cameroon extends over 90% of the country's
area and in 1971 had 80% of the total population of 5.9 million; it has a
variety of climatic conditions and mineral resources and is much more de-
veloped industrially than anglophone West Cameroon which is almost ex-
clusively rural. East Cameroon, however, also includes a particularly
underdeveloped northern region (see Map). In addition, there are reli-
gious and ethnic differences within the states. Together with language,
these differences limit inter-regional migration except among the highly
educated and bilingual. A consequence of this limited mobility is that
most institutions operate on a regional basis.
2.02      A large majority of the population (78%) lives in rural areas
and, in spite of considerable migration to towns, 68% is still expected
to be on the land in 1980/81. Agriculture contributed 38% of GDP in 1970
and is highly diversified. It remains, however, essentially traditional:
95% of cultivated land consists of small holdings of an average of three
to five acres and 5% is commercial farming. Among the obstacles to agri-
cultural growth are the shortage of qualified extension workers and the
lack of effective mechanisms for transmitting to farmers the results of
local agricultural research.   Average annual farmers' income is only $90
while GDP per capita is double that amount.
2.03      The main stimulus to recent economic growth has been the rapid ex-
pansion in the late 60's of industry and commerce which account for about 50%
of GDP. However, this expansion, primarily a result of the development of im-
port substitution industries, is now tapering off and growth in the sectors'
employment, estimated at 63,000 in 1971, is expected to be moderate and de-
termined by plant expansion rather than new large undertakings, with a few



-3-
notable exceptions. Regional disparities are marked. The largest and most
modern commercial and industrial establishments are concentrated in the
coastal region of East Cameroon, particularly around the port of Douala. In
this area, there is one wage earner for every 14 inhabitants as compared with
a ratio of 1:160 in the north, and the national average of 1:35. Cameroonian
workers represent the large majority of skilled workers, but expatriates still
fill a large number of posts at professional (85%) and sub-professional (46%)
levels. Public services have greatly expanded in recent years and now account
for about 12% of GDP and employ 30% of wage earners.
Economic Development Strategy
2.04      The government's priority objective established in 1960 is to
double GDP per capita by 1980. The third five-year development plan,
1971/76, reflects a continuation of the government's efforts, which have
so far been successful in meeting this objective. While the development
thrust is to continue in the industrial and commercial sectors, the govern-
ment's strategy also aims at reducing regional income and growth disparities
by emphasizing programs that would stimulate the dormant secondary sector
of the northern region and improve rural living standards generally. Plans
for developing the industrial potential of the northern region include the
construction of a hydro-electric plant, the development of bauxite extrac-
tion, and the extension of better transport to the area.
2.05      Public investment will be mainly concentrated on improving in-
frastructure facilities, but significant attention will also be devoted
to education and rural development which, combined, are allotted 28% of
the Third Plan's public funds. Agricultural development will be based on
integrated programs and on an effort to modernize production. In order to
obtain more substantial returns from the modernization policy, programs for
extension and farmer training adapted to local needs must be established.
III. EDUCATION SECTOR
The Education System and Strategy (Appendix I, Charts I and II)
3.01      Underlying the low efficiency throughout Cameroon education is a
lack of adequate coordination between the various public and private author-
ities sponsoring all types of education at the federal and state levels.
This situation is further complicated by the colonial inheritance of two
different education systems in francophone East and anglophone West Came-
roon (para. 2.01) which has resulted in marked differences in administra-
tion, structure, curricula and examinations, as well as language of in-
struction. These differences have made difficult the development of an
integrated national educational system and have prevented comprehensive
educational planning at the national level, despite competent federal and
state ministerial staff. Uncontrolled enrollment growth, which has out-
paced provision of both facilities and qualified teachers, has been the
result, together with uneven regional development of education, with the
northern region being neglected.



- 4 -
3.02      A particularly important barrier to effective educational planning
and controlled development is still the strong influence of private educa-
tion at primary and secondary levels; this is particularly the case in West
Cameroon where, for instance, all primary schools and all but one of twelve
primary teacher training colleges are private, and 86% of all secondary
enrollments are in private institutions. In East Cameroon, 43% of primary
and 65% of secondary enrollments are in private schools. Although the
teaching staffs of private schools are paid by public funds, private schools
are not under the effective control of the supporting state or federal
governments.
3.03      To overcome these many difficulties, the government, in its
Third Plan (1971-76), focuses on developing an integrated primary and
secondary education system. In order to achieve its goal of an integra-
ted system by 1980, the government intends to (a) introduce a uniform educa-
tion structure in East and West Cameroon, together with associated curricular
reform at both primary and secondary levels to create a system adapted to
the local environment and designed to meet the requirements of a modern
economy in Cameroon (Appendix II), (b) create a national planning mecha-
nism, (c) develop local administration and supervision over schools, par-
ticularly private ones, and (d) correct regional imbalances by strengthen-
ing education, particularly primary education and teacher training, in the
northern region (para. 2.01). Since higher education is already organized
on a federal basis, the plan with respect to higher education deals only
with expanding enrollments.
3.04      As yet, reform measures have only been partially introduced:
planning for a structural reform at the national level has been completed
and is expected to be implemented between 1971-76; a new secondary curri-
culum has been developed by a joint East-West commission and is being pro-
gressively introduced in East Cameroon; a new primary curriculum developed
by a Unesco-Cameroonian team for East Cameroon is being introduced in that
state, and will be extended to West Cameroon.
3.05      The further refinement and implementation of these and other re-
form measures is expected to be greatly improved by the proposed establish-
ment of a national planning department which will be responsible for plan-
ning of all levels of education for East and West Cameroon. At present,
the existing planning unit of the Federal Ministry (Chart III) deals main-
ly with secondary education. Technical assistance provided under the first
IDA education project will assist in developing this planning department.
Eventually the department will become a part of a National Institute of
Education which is to be established with possible UNDP and bilateral as-
sistance during the Third Plan period.
3.06      Primary Education.  The social demand for primary education,
which is the responsibility of state governments, has been particularly
strong; in 1970, total primary school enrollment reached 934,000 corres-
ponding to 74% of the age-group concerned, a high percentage for a devel-
oping country (Annex 1). The percentage varies greatly from region to



-5-
region, and ranges from 90% in the southern part to 20% in the northern
part of East Cameroon and 67% in West Cameroon. Between 1965 and 1970,
primary enrollments increased by 6.4% and 3.6% p.a. in West and East
Cameroon respectively, accelerated principally by the uncontrolled growth
of private schools (enrolling in 1970, 100% and 43% of primary pupils in
West and East Cameroon respectively). This rate of expansion has outpaced
the supply of qualified teachers and has lowered the quality of an already
poor primary school system. Public and private schools both suffer from
a lack of qualified teachers: in 1970, only 20% of 19,500 primary school
teachers were qualified; the others, primary school leavers, included
3,500 with two to three years of training and 12,200 without any training.
The resulting low standards of both public and private primary schools are
further aggravated by the continued use of an outmoded curriculum (para.
3.03), and are reflected in high dropout and repeater rates.
3.07      Both the state and federal governments have developed plans to
deal with these problems in primary education. To limit annual enrollment
increases to 3.0% p.a. progressively over the decade, both state govern-
ments plan to enforce strictly the age and repetition regulations and, in
some cases, charge fees to reduce repetition of grades. West Cameroon,
where this problem has been more critical, has already begun to enforce
these measures with visible success; East Cameroon intends to implement
controls by 1975. The federal government, in cooperation with state gov-
ernments, intends to develop more control over private schools (paras.
3.01, 3.02) by selectively reducing support for the least efficient
schools and by expanding local supervision and administration (para. 3.03).
The proposed project would assist in training local inspectors and in ex-
tending the primary curriculum reform to West Cameroon.
3.08      Secondary Education.  The main problem of secondary education is
the system's unsuitable structure (chart II) which channels pupils at too
early an age (after primary school) into either general, vocational, tech-
nical or agricultural training with little possibility of changing courses
later. In addition, the system suffers from undue emphasis upon examina-
tions (promotion tests between all grades, and leaving and entrance exam-
inations between cycles) which create blockages in promotion and repetitions
and dropouts at all levels.
3.09      The secondary education reform (para. 3.03) will postpone spec-
ialization by offering all pupils a common two-year academic course (grades
7, 8) before routing them to either further general studies or terminal
skilled worker training. Academic course pupils, upon completion of grade
10, will have a choice between enrolling in a three year university pre-
paration program, a one year teacher training course or technical courses
of two or three years' duration. To reduce wastage, the reform will also
introduce a pupil guidance program system which will assist pupils in de-
ciding between the options available to them, and will regulate the enroll-
ment flow between the various programs according to employment opportuni-
ties. UNDP will assist the guidance development programs by providing



-6-
experts. The reform of secondary education was initiated in 1971 in East
Cameroon and will be applied progressively to East and West Cameroon over
the decade.
3.10      General secondary education has problems similar to those in
primary: uncontrolled expansion of enrollments, general low quality and
efficiency, unadapted curricula and underqualified staff. Between 1965
and 1970, enrollments increased at the high annual rates of 13% in the
lower cycle and 20% in the upper cycle. Total enrollment reached 56,000
in 1970/71, corresponding to 8% of the relevant age group. Forty percent
of entrants drop out before the end of the lower cycle, only 8% complete
the upper course, and 5% pass the final examination, which has resulted
in shortage of qualified university applicants.
3.11      To improve the quality of general secondary education, the gov-
ermnent plans to reduce the annual rate of enrollment increase in the lower
and upper cycles to 7% and 10% respectively by 1975 and 5% and 7% respectively
by 1980. Total enrollments are expected to reach 83,000 by 1975 and 120,000
by 1980 (100,000 in the lower and 20,000 in the upper cycle), which would be
sufficient to provide the various subsequent types of education with qualified
candidates and to meet labor market needs. The secondary schools financed
under the first IDA project (para. 1.01) and by bilateral agencies and FED
will make possible the planned enrollment increase in the various regions
of Cameroon.
3.12      In addition, as part of the secondary education reform (paras.
3.03, 3.09), new curricula have been designed which will allow students
leaving school at all levels to be prepared for employment while at the
same time providing the background required for those continuing their
studies. The proposed project would include one new upper secondary school
which would be utilized to demonstrate these reforms and to provide suitable
teaching practice in the new curricula for teacher trainees.
3.13      Teacher Training.  The existing primary teacher training system
in 1970/71 produced an estimated 800 graduates (500 in East and 300 in
West Cameroon) and will have to produce 1370 annually by 1977 to satisfy
the needs resulting from the expected increases in primary school enroll-
ments. More than a quantitative increase will be required, however, as
about one-third of present graduates of teacher training colleges have
completed only primary education and two years of training and, therefore,
although certified as "qualified", are underqualified in terms of educa-
tional background.
3.14      For primary teacher training, the government has developed a
plan, acceptable to both states, that would upgrade and expand the system
to provide a sufficient supply (27,000) of better qualified teachers by
1980 (Annex 2). The up-grading would be accomplished by 1981 as follows:
(a) 12,500 currently underqualified teachers will be given four months'
in-service training sessions over a period of approximately six years;



- 7 -
(b) teachers beginning their training in 1972-73 will be required to have
at least four years of secondary education, thereby phasing out the recruit-
ment of primary school leavers; (c) visiting inspectors will provide more
frequent and more effective follow-up support to newly trained teachers by
1975; (d) ineffective institutions (para. 3.02) will be phased out as pri-
mary teacher training colleges and will be replaced by new public training
colleges. The capacity of the system will be increased through the first
and the proposed second IDA projects by adding a total of about 900 student
places to existing public institutions.
3.15      The supply of properly trained teachers for general secondary
education is inadequate, and the government has had to hire underqualified
teachers (54% of a total of 2,200) and expatriate teachers (35%). By 1980,
it is estimated that about 4,500 general secondary teachers (3,650 lower
and 850 upper secondary teachers) will be required. The only general
secondary teacher training college in Cameroon is the Ecole Normale Supe-
rieure (ENS), which has its main campus in Yaounde, East Cameroon, and an
annex in Bambili, West Cameroon. In 1971, it graduated a total from both
campuses of only 51 lower secondary teachers and 26 upper secondary teach-
ers. To meet the need for secondary teachers, the ENS must train about
400 teachers annually (300 lower and 100 upper teachers) from 1976 onward.
Although the quality of training is good, the institution at present has
an enrollment capacity of only 250; this is to be increased with the as-
sistance of the first IDA education project and the proposed project to
850 by 1976-77, which would provide 400 graduate general secondary teach-
ers (380) and inspectors (20) annually by 1978. This number would be suf-
ficient for enrollment increases and replacement for teacher attrition, and
would also permit progressive replacement of expatriates; the proportion of
local general secondary teachers would be increased from the present 65%
to 85% of the total staff by 1980.
3.16      Technical and Vocational Education.  As it is constituted at present,
the technical and vocational education system is inadequate, both quantitatively
and qualitatively, to meet the needs of Cameroon for trained technical person-
nel. Total output is 130 technicians and 750 skilled workers per year, com-
pared with an annual need of 560 technicians and 1,600 skilled workers. This
demand is expected to increase to 600 technicians and 2,000 skilled workers
per year after 1976 (Appendix III).
3.17      Even more serious is the low quality of training that is offered.
This is due to a number of factors: outdated and excessively theoretical
curricula; insufficient and obsolete equipment; inadequate facilities, par-
ticularly workshops; and most importantly, insufficient numbers of quali-
fied classroom teachers and workshop instructors.
3.18      The government is aware of these deficiencies and has placed high
priority on expanding and modernizing vocational and technical training.
Structural deficiencies in the vocational and training system will be cor-
rected as a part of the secondary education reform (paras. 3.03, 3.09).



Technical options will be offered at various points along the academic ladder
(Annex to Appendix II). These options will be of shorter duration but will
place greater emphasis upon practical work. As recruitment will be delayed
for nearly all courses until completion of grades 8 or 10, students will have
a better general education background. New and more practical curricula,
which have already been developed, will be introduced, together with modern
equipment and better facilities. The proposed project would include two new
technical secondary schools which would demonstrate the new structure and re-
forms.
3.19      However, because of the timing of the first IDA project (para.
1.01) and bilateral assistance from Canada and FED, significant increases
in output will not occur until 1976. By then, the first IDA project will
provide 620 student places with an annual output of 200. The proposed proj-
ect would provide 1,065 student places with an annual output of 340 by 1978.
Both projects combined would meet about 17% of the estimated need for skilled
workers and technicians over the decade. Bilateral assistance from Canada
and FED will provide an additional 13%, the existing system, 37%, and the
remainder (33%O) will be met by on-the-job training.
3.20      To ensure that the formal technical training system will be
responsive to the actual needs of local industry and business, the gov-
ernment intends to establish governing boards of technical schools which
will include appropriate representation by local industry and business.
As such representation would improve the relevance of the two project
technical schools, the government has provided an assurance that it will
establish the governing boards of these schools, as described above, no
later than October 1975, approximately one year prior to their scheduled
opening. In addition, a non-formal vocational guidance and training
center (CESPE), jointly managed by the Ministry of Education and the
private sector, will be established with the assistance of the proposed
project.
3.21      Agricultural Training.  The formal agricultural training system
consists of eleven agricultural secondary schools and one four year post-
secondary institution for professional agronomists. In 1971, this system
produced 120 skilled workers and technicians and 15 agronomists. There is
a generally recognized, but as yet unquantified, need for much larger num-
bers of trained middle level agricultural personnel if the efficiency and
quality of the government's services at farm level are to be improved suffi-
ciently to meet the government's agricultural and related development programs.
The development of a satisfactory agricultural training system has been ham-
pered by budgetary constraints and a lack of clear and coordinated government
policy. The latter can be attributed to the dispersion of responsibility for
agricultural training among three state ministries and to the absence of a
federal ministry of agriculture (Chart I). The project would assist the gov-
ernment in undertaking a study that would analyze the quality and capacity of
the existing uneconomically small public formal institutions and the various
bilateral and private training programs, and determine how they might best be
integrated into a more rational training effort commensurate with the identi-
fiable needs of the proposed agricultural development strategies of both East
and West Cameroon.



3.22      Rural Training (Appendix 1) is offered in programs in 34 pri-
vate centers separately administered by various agencies and 13 types of
training programs operated by four ministries. The public and private
programs are run in a variety of facilities in villages scattered over the
country. There is no coordination of these programs and little information
about them is available because of inadequate supervision and the absence
of an appropriate survey.
3.23      During the third plan period (1971/76), the government intends to
reorganize and develop rural training in order to (a) give an appropriate
instructional complement to primary school leavers, 80% of whom remain on
the land; (b) give unschooled children the educational basis that will ena-
ble them to take part in modernized agricultural production and (c) train
adults to improve their cultivation and management techniques. The nation-
al and bilateral programs (Appendix I) that have proved efficient will be
expanded and will consolidate isolated programs after the analysis included
in the above proposed pre-investment study is completed. The findings and
recommendations of this study are expected to provide a suitable basis for
a subsequent Bank Group project in rural training as well as formal agri-
cultural training.
3.24      The government intends to develop and improve higher education
particularly in medicine, science and teacher training. In addition to
provision of teachers, bilateral and multilateral aid will be focused on
the extension of the medicine and health science institute and the creation
of a polytechnic institute to train higher technicians, engineers and tech-
nical upper secondary teachers.
Education Finance (Appendix IV and Annexes 3 and 4)
3.25      The responsibility for financing public education expenditures
is divided between (a) the federal government which is responsible for fi-
nancing construction materials for primary schools and all capital and re-
current expenditures at secondary and post-secondary levels, and (b) the
state governments which are responsible for minor construction for primary
schools and the recurrent costs of primary education, primary teacher train-
ing, and the vocational training schemes of various ministries. In 1969/70,
total public educational expenditures amounted to CFAF 8.4 billion and ac-
counted for 20% of the combined budgets of the federal, East and West Cam-
eroon governments and 3% of GDP. When separated into federal and state ex-
penditures, the proportion of educational expenditures in the states is high,
as shown below:



- 10 -
Educational Expenditures, 1969/70
Federal Government       East Cameroon         West Cameroon
% of                 % of
CFAF    % of Federal    CFAF       State       CFAF       State
(billions)    Total      (billions)  Total    (billions)  Total
Expenditures            Expenditures         Expenditures
Total Public        4.2          14%           3.1        30%    1.1         38%
Public Recurrent   3.8           15%           3.0        30%    1.1         42%
3.26      Public capital expenditures on education and training amounted to
about CFAF 500 million in 1969/70, of which about 80% were undertaken by
the federal government and most of the remainder, CFAF 100 million, by East
Cameroon. The capital expenditures of West Cameroon were minimal due to
the government's ban on the opening of new primary schools since 1966 in
order to form more economical school units.
3.27      Private schools are a major element of the education system in
both East and West Cameroon, and are heavily subsidized by the federal and
state governments. The operation of private schools absorbed CFAF 2 bil-
lion of public recurrent education expenditures and an additional CFAF 2
billion from the private sector, making a total of approximately 40% of
total recurrent educational expenditures. West Cameroon spent CFAF 1.07
billion of its total recurrent education expenditures of CFAF 1.1 billion
on private primary schools and teacher training institutions.
3.28      The recurrent education expenditures of the state governments are
heavily taxing the states' financial resources, which are limited to direct
taxes, and in the case of West Cameroon also include a substantial annual
federal subsidly amounting to 60% of the state's total expenditures. Their
high level illustrates the public commitment to education in Cameroon,
but also provides evidence that further enrollment expansion will not be
possible without substantial improvements in the efficiency of the education
systems or alternate arrangements for education financing. Already, the
states have taken appropriate action to meet financial constraints. Unable
to pay teachers' salaries in 1970/71, the West Cameroon government discharged
1,000 unqualified teachers and used a supplementary federal subsidy to pay
the remaining salary bill. It then instituted various stringent measures,
effective with the 1971/72 fiscal year, to generate sufficient internal savings
and new funds to meet the expenditures of new primary enrollments (Appendix IV).
These measures included newly imposed charges on repeaters which are expect-
ed to reduce repeaters from 22% to about 10% of primary enrollments, ration-
alization of teacher training, increases in the primary student/teacher
ratio from 1:37 to 1:45, the institution of controls in the subsidies to
private schools; and various other measures designed to eliminate waste,
and to increase revenues. The savings to be realized by these measures
would add about CFAF 200 million to the government's revenues, which should
be sufficient to finance the proposed 3.0% p.a. increase in primary enroll-
ment in the state (para. 3.07).



- 11 -
3.29      Mindful of West Cameroon's experience and of its own financial
constraints, the Secretariat of State for Primary Education in East Cameroon
has revised the projection of primary enrollment expansion from 200,000 new
students in 1971-76 to 125,000, and has issued strict orders for the enforce-
ment of regulations pertaining to repeaters and overaged students, who
jointly account for 45% of the primary enrollments. The savings to be
realized from a reduction of repeaters to 20% would be sufficient to finance
the new primary enrollments. To ensure the enforcement of these regulations,
which in the past have exercised only a marginal impact on enrollments, the
government is strengthening its inspectorate by doubling its national field
staff of 40 by 1975 and quadrupling it by 1980 (paras. 3.03 and 3.07).
3.30      The federal governments's objective is to federalize gradually most
state activities. It has already been assuming some of the states' responsi-
bilities, recently those of transportation, police and public works (the lat-
ter only for West Cameroon). Concurrently, the federal government has at-
tempted to increase the states' revenue base (corporate tax reform). The
ultimate goal of the government is to eliminate the subsidy to West Cameroon,
but until the state can effectively broaden its revenue base, the government
will continue its financial support particularly when such assistance is re-
quired for the education sector.
3.31      Irrespective of any action in this field, the share of the federal
government's own expenditures on education will be steadily increasing be-
cause of its responsibility to finance secondary and post-secondary levels
which currently are the fastest growing and most expensive sub-sectors.  If
the third plan's enrollment targets are to be met, recurrent expenditure
at the secondary level would have to double the 1969 level to CFAF 2.7 bil-
lion and at the university level increase from about CFAF 1.1 billion to
CFAF 4.2 billion. It is unlikely that, in competition with other priority
sectors, the government can afford such an enrollment expansion, particu-
larly at the university level. As the plan's enrollment targets at these
levels have been established independently of manpower projections, the
targets must be reviewed and amended, as required, when the results of the
new labor market study are analyzed, to determine priorities in the alloca-
tion of capital and recurrent funds which, in the Third Plan, highly favor
general education.
External Aid (Appendix V)
3.32      Education and training programs have been assisted extensively
through grants and loans from public, private, bilateral, and multilateral
agencies. This assistance has been provided to all levels and types of
education and is expected to continue at a high level during the third five
year plan in which CFAF 9 billion (or 41% of the anticipated capital expendi-
tures on education) is expected to be externally financed. The principle
agencies assisting in the development of the sector are F.A.C. and F.E.D.
F.A.C.'s annual support to the sector amounts to about US$12 million or
40% of its total assistance to Cameroon. F.A.C's interest is now limited
to the provision of teachers and the support of three higher education



- 12 -
projects (The Faculty of Health and Medicine, the Higher Technical Insti-
tute and the Post and Telecommunication Institute). F.E.D. is now involved
in its second phase of assistance allocating about US$14.5 million for
1972-74, primarily for construction of primary and secondary school class-
rooms and staff housing.
IV. THE PROJECT
General (Annex 5)
4.01      The proposed project would assist in financing (a) the construc-
tion and equipment of new institutions and the extension of existing ones
as listed below and (b) technical assistance both for the project institu-
tions and for pre-investment studies related to agricultural and technical
education and rural training. These project items would complement the
first project (paras. 1.01 and 1.02) by (a) expanding and improving pri-
mary and secondary educational staff training and demonstrating the second-
ary education reforms, (b) extending primary education reform to West
Cameroon, (c) expanding technical education, (d) introducing non-formal
adult vocational training and (e) initiating a national study of agricul-
tural education and rural training, and a study of technical education and
vocational training requirements in the northern region.
Additional Accommodations
Student Places    Student           Staff
Type of Institution         Grades   Additional  Total  Boarding    Housing Units
Three Primary Teacher
Training Colleges
(new and extended)          11          280       630      230              4
One Ecole Normale
Superieure (extended)       14-17       350       850       240              -
One Demonstration Second-
ary School (new)           11-13      1,000    1,000        -                2
Two Technical Secondary
Schools and Teacher
Training Section (new)      7-13      1,115    1,115        200              3
One Adult Vocational
Training Center (new)   Ungraded        250       250       60              3
TOTAL                         2,995    3,845       730             12



- 13 -
Primary Teacher Training Colleges - Garoua, Nkongsamba and Kumba
4.02      The three colleges assisted - including the one at Garoua which
would be the first teacher training institution in the north (paras. 3.01,
3.06) - would provide a total of 280 additional student places. These, to-
gether with the 630 student places financed by the first IDA education proj-
ect, would represent 45% of the system's capacity in 1976/77 and would be
sufficient to meet the requirements for 1977/78. The training would also
be designed to prepare teachers to become village leaders, and would there-
fore include courses in community development techniques, school guidance
and administration. Trainees would be given civil service status and would
be conmitted to a ten year teaching assignment upon admission. At the end
of the training year they would receive the C.A.P.E. or Grade II diploma.
Ecole Normale Superieure (E.N.S.), Yaounde (Appendix II)
4.03      The proposed expansion of this college, the only secondary teacher
training institution in Cameroon, would provide an added yearly output of
150 by 1980, thereby raising total and yearly output to 400 (280 lower sec-
ondary teachers, 100 upper secondary teachers and 20 primary inspectors).
4.04      The expansion and quality improvement is necessary because of:
(a) the increase of general secondary enrollments caused by the structural
reform (para. 3.09) which institutionalizes a two-year lower secondary course
for all secondary students, (b) FAC's policy to reduce technical assistance
in general secondary teachers, and (c) the increase of primary inspectors
required to ensure control over primary schools (para. 3.06). As with pri-
mary teachers, E.N.S. trainees are given the status of civil servants and
committed to teach for ten years. As experience indicates that scholarships
are necessary to attract applicants, the government has provided an assur-
ance that a sufficient number of scholarships would be awarded to ensure full
enrollment.
Demonstration Upper Secondary School (Lycee), Yaounde
4.05      This new demonstration upper secondary school (Lycee) would pro-
vide practice teaching experience in the new secondary curricula for the
ENS teacher trainees and serve as an innovation center in secondary curri-
culum development. The new school would replace the upper secondary section
of an overcrowded existing secondary school. The proposed Lycee would be
used for sunmner vacation seminars and upgrading sessions organized by the
E.N.S. for an estimated 200 upper secondary teachers annually.
Technical Secondary Schools and Teacher Training Section, Garoua and Douala
4.06      The two new schools would be:  (a) an upper secondary school at
Garoua (Lycee Technique) and (b) a lower secondary CET in Douala, includ-
ing a teacher training section for lower secondary workshop teachers. The
Lycee Technique at Garoua, which would be the only technician training
institution in the northern region, would produce 90 technicians annually



- 14 -
who would be employed in the region or go on for higher technical studies.
The lower school (CET) in Douala would have an annual output of 250 skilled
workers. It would be the only public institution of that type in the coastal
region and include a post-secondary workshop teacher training section which
would be an annex of the ENS. Teacher trainees would be recruited on a na-
tional basis from among qualified working technicians. The curriculum has
been developed and is already being applied in a temporary technical teacher
training program in the Douala Lycee Technique.
4.07      The new secondary structural and curricular reforms (para. 3.09)
would be applied to both schools which would be the pilot schools in tech-
nical education. Both schools would be used to train approximately 2,000
semi-skilled workers in evening classes and upgrading sessions during sum-
mer vacations.
Adult Vocational Guidance and Training Center (CESPE), Douala
4.08      This non-formal training center would offer short training and
upgrading courses (1 to 5 weeks), for about 2,000 employees p.a. in all
specializations represented in local industry at semi-skilled, skilled and
technician levels; a minimum of 1,500 would attend training courses oroan-
ized by CESPE itself and 500 would attend special ones organized on the
specific request of firms through the Chamber of Commerce. The Center
would be a public institution, sponsored by the Ministry of Education
(Chart III), and jointly managed by public administration and private sec-
tor representatives. The Lycee Technique in Garoua (para. 4.06) would be
the annex of the CESPE in the northern region. During negotiations, it
was agreed that the law which would establish and prescribe the regula-
tions of the CESPE, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition
of disbursement for this project item.
Pre-Investment Study of Agricultural and Rural Training
4.09      The objective of this study would be to assist the government
in determining (a) the numbers and types of trained agricultural person-
nel required by the proposed agricultural and related development programs
and (b) how the present ineffective and uneconomically small formal and
non-formal training programs operated by the government, bilateral agen-
cies, and private organizations might best be organized to meet the above
needs and the more general needs of the rural population. Particular at-
tention would be given to the training of country women and special con-
sideration would be given to the less developed northern region and West
Cameroon. The project would provide the equivalent of three man-years
of expert services to carry out the pre-investment study. The experts as
well as terms and conditions of their employment would be acceptable to
the Association. It is understood that the 1973-76 UNDP program for
Cameroon had already been formulated and that it did not include provision
for this study.



- 15 -
Pre-Investment Study of Technical Education and Vocational Training
Requirements in Northern Cameroon
4.10      The objective of this study would be to assist the government in
determining (a) the needs of Northern Cameroon for various levels and types
of technically trained personnel, (b) the corresponding required training
institutions, equipment, and staff, and (c) the feasibility of a lower tech-
nical secondary school in Ngaoundere. The study would be initiated after
the results of the on-going labor market study (now expected in June, 1972).
The project would provide the equivalent of one man-year of specialists'
services. The specialists, and the conditions of their employment, as well
as the terms of reference of the study, would be acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Technical Assistance
4.11      In addition, the project would provide for (a) 17 man-years of
specialist services for the organization and implementation of training
programs and the training of national counterparts and (b) five man-years
of scholarships for these counterparts, as described in Appendix VI. All
experts and counterparts as well as terms and conditions of their employ-
ment would be acceptable to the Association. The time schedule of the
technical assistance program is given in the Annex to Appendix VI.



-16-
t _f the Project
1 2   The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various project
items are summarized below:
C.F.A.F. (Billions)      LUS $ (M.illions)        % of
Local Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign. Total    Total
A. General Education
Primary Teacher
Training Colleges (3)      0.11    0.26     0.37   0.43    1.04    1.47       16
Ecole Normale
Sup6rieure                 0.08    0.17     0.25   0.29    0.67    0.96       11
Demonstration Secondary
School                     0.06    0.14     0.20   0.23    0.55    0.78
Sub-Total                  0.25    0.57     0.82   0-95    2.26    3.21       36
B. Technical Education
Technical Secondary
Schools (2)                0.26    0.62      0.88   1.07    2.40    3.47      38
Adult Vocational
Training Center            0.07    0.15     0.22   0.26    0.58    0.84        3
Sub-Total                  0.33   0.77      l.lo   1.33    2.98    4.31       47
C,. Professional Fees           o.o4    o.o8      0.12   0.16    0.30    0.46       .f
D. Pre-Investment Studies       0.01    0.03      0.04   0.04    0.10    0.14       1
F. Technical Assistanoe         0.04    0.13     0.17   0.14    0.55    0.69        8
F. Project Administration       0.02    0.04      0.06   0.06    0.19    0.25        3
Sub-Total (A+B+C4D+E+F)   o.69    1.62       2.31   2.68    6.38    9.06     100
Contingencies
(a) Physical increase        0.05    0.10     0.15   0.20    0.39    0.59        6
(b) Price increase           0.16    0.28     0.44  0.61    1.11    1.72        19
Sub-Total                  0.21    0.38      0.59  0.81    1.51    2.32       25
TOTAL PPSJECT COST            0.90    2.00      2.90   3.49    7.89   11.38
-_      =      _          -  _    _



- 17 -
4.13      The distribution of cost by category of expenditure would be as
follows:  Academic and communal facilities would account for 27% of the
project cost, boarding 12%, equipment and furniture 35%, and professional
services 5% (Annex 6). Cost estimates are net of import duties and local
taxes. The accommodation would have an economical use factor ranging from
65% to 89% (Annex 7).
4.14      The project cost would include a contingency allowance for unfore-
seen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated cost of civil works
and 5% for furniture and equipment (Annex 8). Total contingencies would re-
present 25% of the total project costs without contingencies and 20% of the
total costs including contingencies. Price increases have been calculated
on the basis of the average increase over the last 5 years.
4.15      The foreign exchange comnonent of about $7.9 million has been
calculated as follows: (i) building construction and site development 58%;
(ii) furniture 50%; (iii) equipment 91%; (iv) professional services 65%;
(v) technical assistance 78% (experts 75% and fellowships 100%) and (vi) proj-
ect administration 76%. The foreign exchange costs represent about 70% of
the total project costs (US$11.4 million).
4.16      The cost estimates for project institutions are derived from a
study of recent school building costs in Cameroon and based upon informa-
tion obtained from public and private enterprises. The estimated average
school construction cost is equivalent to US$154 per m2 of gross area. Lo-
cal cost adjustments varying between 10% to 30% of basic prices have been
made for buildings in rural areas to compensate for the high transportation
costs. Construction costs are high by international standards but are not
excessive in comparison with other countries in West Africa.
Recurrent Costs
4.17      In 1975/76, when all project institutions and programs would be
operative, an additional CFAF 280 million would be required for their opera-
tion. The costs for scholarships and allowances for the trainees, where
applicable, would amount to an additional CFAF 250 million per year. Ex-
cept for half of the recurrent cost of CESPE (CFAF 16 million), which would
be met by the private sector, all costs would be borne by the federal and
state governments and would be distributed as follows: federal government
73%, East Cameroon 22% and West Cameroon 5%. These costs would represent
about 3.8% of the combined public recurrent expenditures on education in
1975, or about 5%, 2%, 2%, respectively for the federal government, East
and West Cameroon recurrent expenditures in that year. Because the govern-
ment has assigned high priority to the reform of the system which the proj-
ect institutions would introduce and to the vocational preparation of key
personnel required for the development of the economy, the Ministry of Fi-
nance has already pledged to provide the funds required for the proper oper-
ation and maintenance of the proiect institutions. This was confirmed dur-
ing negotiations.



- 18 -
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administration.  The Project Unit established under the first
IDA Credit would be responsible also for supervision of this project. The
Project Unit would include the principal posts of Project Director, Proj-
ect Architect (who would also serve as Deputy Project Director) and Pro-
curement Specialist, and would be provided with additional supporting staff.
Confirmation of the appointment of the present Project Director and the ap-
pointment of an architect, acceptable to the Association, on a full-time
basis to the post of Project Architect would be additional conditions of ef-
fectiveness of the Credit Agreement. It was agreed during negotiations that
the Project Unit Director would be made responsible directly to the Minister
of Education. The other ministries involved in the project would designate
senior representatives to liaise with the Project Unit, as required. The
Credit would finance the total cost of the architect and procurement spe-
cialist's services and additional equipment and furniture to facilitate the
Unit's expanded operations. All other project Unit costs would be borne by
the government. During negotiations, it was agreed that the government
would appropriately expand the Project Unit and provide it with adequate
facilities. With the proposed strengthening of the Project Unit, it is ex-
pected that some delays experienced in the case of the first project will
be avoided.
5.02      Professional Services.  Professional services available in Cameroon
are not sufficient to handle the planning and supervision of the construction
of the project institutions, and it is likely that the services of expatriate
consultant architects will be required for this project. As the implementa-
tion of the first project was delayed by approximately one year because of
delays in appointing consultant architects, arrangements by the borrower, sa-
tisfactory to the Association, for the appointment of consulting architectural
firms, acceptable to the Association, and on terms and conditions agreeable to
the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
5.03      Sites.  Of the eight project institutions, three are existing
schools to be expanded, upgraded, and/or partially converted on their
present adequate sites. During negotiations, the government provided
assurances that all required sites, acceptable to the Association, would
be legally acquired before construction is scheduled to start. The cost
of land acquisition would be borne by the government and is not included
in the project cost.
5.04      Procurement.  All contracts for construction and for supply of
furniture and equipment would be awarded in conformity with the Associa-
tion's guidelines for international competitive bidding. Forms of the
contract documents and procedures for prequalification of civil works con-
tractors would be acceptable to the Association. During negotiations, the
government provided an assurance that it would employ civil works contrac-
tors acceptable to the Association under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association. Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be pre-
pared during the design stages of project implementation and would be re-



- 19 -
viewed by the Association prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk pro-
curement. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, manufacturers
in Cameroon and in the Customs Union of the Central African States (UDEAC)
would be accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of cus-
toms duty generally applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f.
prices, whichever is lower. However, the government intends that all
imported materials and services related to the Project would be exempted
from duties and taxes. Therefore, preferential trade agreements with the
European Common Market would not be a factor in comparing bids by various
foreign suppliers.
5.05      Implementation period.  The period of implementation would be about
6 years; construction would be completed within about 3-1/4 years from the
date of signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 9). The project is within the
capacity of the Cameroonian construction industry to implement and it is ex-
pected that locally-based firms would win all awards. Total building con-
struction estimated annually under the project would correspond to about 8%
of the value of expected annual building activity in the country.
5.06      Disbursements.  The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis
of (a) 100% of the total costs of furniture and equipment, pre-investment
studies, technical assistance, the salaries of the Project Unit Architect and
Procurement Specialist, and professional services; and (b) 58% of the costs
of site development and construction estimated at US$4.4 million (Annex 6).
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 10. Undisbursed
funds would be available for cancellation. The proposed credit of US$9.0
million, equal to 80% of the total cost of the project would meet 100% of
the foreign exchange component (US$7.9 million) and 32% (US$1.1 million) of
the local costs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, it was agreed that the government would:
(i) establish governing boards for the two project technical
schools which would include appropriate representation by
local industry and business (para. 3.20);
(ii) allocate to ENS a sufficient number of scholarships to
ensure full enrollment (para. 4.04);
(iii) appropriately expand the Project Unit and provide it with
adequate facilities (para. 5.01); and
(iv) legally acquire the required sites, acceptable to the
Association, for the five new institutions before the
scheduled initiation of construction (para. 5.03).



- 20 -
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) the confirmation of the
appointment of the present Project Director and the appointment on a full-
time basis of a Project Architect, agreeable to the Association (paras.
5.01 and 5.02) and (b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for
the appointment of consultant architects, acceptable to the Association,
and on terms and conditions agreeable to the Association.
6.03      A con4ition of disbursement for the CESPE would be the approval
by the Association of the law establishing this Center (para. 4.08).
6.04      The project would provide a satisfactory basis for a development
credit of US$9.0 million to Cameroon.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        The responsibility for education and training is distributed be-
tween federal and state authorities: (a) at federal level, the Ministry of
Education, Culture and Vocational Training is responsible for the planning
of all levels and types of education though it administers only general and
technical secondary as well as higher education; literacy and adult educa-
tion depend on the Ministry of Youth and Sports; other ministries and tech-
nical departments such as the National Railroad Company have their own
training institutions; (b) at the state level, each of the two states is
responsible for primary education and primary teacher training as well as
agricultural and veterinary secondary education through its various appro-
priate secretariats of state; (c) private associations and firms also run
a few training schemes. There is no adequate coordination between all
these sponsoring authorities and, for primary education in particular, the
splitting of planning and administration between federal and state minis-
tries raises some difficulty.
2.        There is a majority of private institutions, mainly religious, es-
pecially in West Cameroon (Annex 1 to this Appendix). Public administration
has not been able to exert adequate control over these schools though it sub-
sidizes them considerably. The quality of private schools is unequal and
particularly poor in non-denominational schools.
3.        East and West Cameroon have different systems of primary and sec-
ondary education: In East Cameroon, French is the language of instruction
and the system follows the French pattern providing six years of primary
education followed either by a secondary course with a four-year lower cycle
(grades 7-10) and an upper cycle (grades 11-13) or by two to three years of
"post primary" vocational training (grades 7-9). In West Cameroon, English
is the language of instruction and the system follows the British pattern
which provides seven years of primary education followed by a secondary
five-year lower course (grades 8-12) and a two-year upper course (grades
13-14) or by a one- or three-year vocational training course (grades 8 or
8-10).
4.        Higher education in both states is given on a federal bilingual
basis. It lasts two to six years and is offered in eleven institutions in-
cluding five faculties (of which two faculties of theology) and six higher
schools and institutes.
5.        Primarv education accounts for 92.3% of overall enrollment, second-
ary education for 7.4% (of which 5.5% for general and 1.9% for technical
courses) -- agricultural secondary education is negligible -- and higher edu-
cation for 0.3%.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
Primary Education
6.         In 1970/71, total primary enrollment amounted to 934,000, including
74% of age groups concerned, which is a high ratio for a developing country;
but the ratio was very unequal according to the regions and ranged from about
85-90% in the coastal and Yaounde regions to 20% in the northern region. East
and West Cameroons presented different characteristics summed up as follows:
%  of             Female
fully          Enrollment
Age--                                              qual-  Pupil/    as %
Group   Enroll-  Enrollment Ratios   Teaching  ified Teacher  of total
State Coverage  ments  Unadjusted Adjusted   Staff    staff  Ratio  enrollment
(000's)                        (in 000's)
East    6-11      725.5      108%        76%        13.9      16%   52:1         43%
West    6-12    208.5         84%        67%         5.6      29%   37:1         32%
The shortage of qualified staff, more acute in East Cameroon, mainly accounts
for the low efficiency of the system: About 50% of Grade I entrants drop out
before the end of the course (40% before the end of the fourth year); about
20% pass the leaving examination and 10% are admitted to the next level of
education. Private schools, sponsored mostly by catholic and protestant
churches, enroll 100% of West Cameroon and 43% of East Cameroon pupils. The
quality is unequal in these schools and rather poor in non-denominational
ones. Though subsidized by the state, private schools are not properly con-
trolled:  The main reason is the shortage of qualified inspectors (68 of whom
41 in the field in East Cameroon).
7.         Between 1965-66 and 1970-71, the annual average growth in enroll-
ments has been 3.6% in East Cameroon and 6.4%  in West Cameroon.  Repeaters re-
presented 22% and 35% of enrollments in West and East Cameroons respectively.
In East Cameroon, the annual average growth in teachers has run parallel to
that of enrollments (3.7%) in order to keep the average pupils/teacher ratio
about 52:1; but an increasing number of underqualified people has had to be
hired. In West Cameroon, the corresponding growth rate has been only 2.2%.
This accounts for the rise of the pupils/teacher ratio from 30:1 in 1965/66
to 37:1 in 1970/71. In 1971, financial constraints impelled the government
in West Cameroon to cut down by about 1000 the number of underqualified
teachers: This raised the ratio to about 45:1. In both Cameroons, govern-
ments intend to stabilize primary enrollment growth progressively to 3% p.a.,
and improve internal flows by strictly enforcing age regulations and reducing
repetition (Appendix IV), which will give more intake possibilities and
raise enrollment ratio. The FED program ending in 1974 schedules the con-
struction of 712 classes, many of them in the northern region where the gov-
ernment will focus on raising the low enrollment. The region accounts for
9% of overall primary enrollment although 27% of Cameroon's population lives
there.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
8.        The curriculum has just been reformed very satisfactorily in East
Cameroon in order to meet environmental and economic requirements (Appendix
II para. 2).   This reform will be extended progressively to West Cameroon
with a view to unifying primary education on a federal basis.
Primary Teacher Training
9.        There are three kinds of primary teacher training programs (Chart
II), but the levels of recruitment and duration of training vary in East and
West Cameroons as follows:
Training
course
Qualification               Background                 duration
(East:MEG                                       ) 6 years  2 years
(a) (or                         Primary Education  )
(West:Grade III Teachers                        ) 7 years  3 years
Secondary      (East:Instituteur Adjoint                        ) 4 years  1 year
Education (b) (or                          Secondary Education)
(West:Grade II Teachers                         ) 3 years  2 years
(East:Instituteur                               ) 4 years  3 years
(c) (or                         Secondary Education)
(West:Grade I Teachers                          ) 5 years  2 years
Ordinary primary school leavers without any training have even been engaged
as primary school teachers. In 1970-71, this resulted in unqualified staff
accounting for 72% (9,960 out of 13,900) in East Cameroon and 40% (2,200 out
of 5,600) in West Cameroon. Underqualified teachers (MEG and Grade III) re-
presented respectively 12% (1,700) and 32% (1,800) of the staff in East and
West Cameroons.
10.       A general reform of the training system (Appendix II para. 2) is
taking place in East Cameroon and will be progressively extended to the whole
of Cameroon parallel with the reform of primary education (para. 8 above).
IEG and Grade III categories are being progressively suppressed. Instituteurs
Adjoints and Grade II teachers will become the basic standard teachers. Insti-
tuteurs and Grade I teachers will be most employed as headmasters, advisors,
teacher trainers and inspectors after adequate additional training given in
primary education reform centers (IPAR's).
11.       In East Cameroon there are five public training institutions:  Ex-
cept for that in Yaounde training only "instituteurs" over three years and
retraining teachers, headmasters, inspectors and teacher trainers, these in-
stitutions train jointly two or three categories of teachers. In 1972/73,
they will train over one year only "Instituteurs adjoints" recruited at
"brevet" level. Private institutions (11) mainly produce underqualified
teachers (MEG's). The system is very inefficient: There were 1800 trainees
in East Cameroon in 1970/71 for an output of 460 (of whom 240 fully quali-



APPENDIX I
Page 4
fied). In West Cameroon, there are 12 training institutions, of which only
one is public (Kumba): In 1970/71, their enrollment amounted to 2,400 half
of whom being ordinary secondary students.  In both Cameroon, most private
institutions will be converted into secondary schools as the public teacher
training college network expands. This network extended through IDA proj-
ects to a total of seven colleges would raise the number of student places
to1,650 by 1977 and make it possible to retrain an overall 12,500 unquali-
fied teachers and train 100% and 57% of the new teachers respectively needed
in East (1,000) and West Cameroon (370). Three private colleges able to pro-
duce qualified teachers would provide the complement required in West Came-
roon.
Secondary Education
General
12.       In 1970-71, there were 75,430 students in secondary schools giving
an adjusted enrollment ratio of 8%, which is close to that of comparable
countries.  The basic data for East and West Cameroons were as follows:
%  of            Female
fully          Enrollment
Age-                                              qual-  Pupil/    as %
State  Group   Enroll-  Enrollment Ratios   Teaching  ified Teacher  of total
Type  Coverage  ments  Unadjusted Adjusted   Staff    staff  Ratio  enrollment
East   12-18   66,670       10.1       9.2       2,725      45    24:1       East
General  "      50,510       7.7       7.0       1,920      45    26:1        26%
Tech-
nical   "      15,930       2.4       2.2         770      39    20:1        37%
Agricul-
tural   "         230       0.04     0.04          35     100      6:1        -
West   13-19    8,760        4.8       4.8         377       50    23:1      West
General  "       5,520       3.0       3.0         280      49    20:1        30%
Tech-
nical   "       3,200       1.8       1.8         90       49    35:1        23%
Agricul-
tural   "          40       0.02     0.02           7     100      6:1        -
General Secondary Education
13.       The most striking feature is the high average annual growth rates
of enrollments between 1965-66 and 1970-71 due to a very strong social de-
mand: 13% in the lower cycle and 20% in the upper cycle. In 1969-70 and
1970-71, they tended to stabilize around 15% in the lower cycle but reached
28% in the upper cycle in East Cameroon and 34% at intake (Grade 7) in West
Cameroon. The internal flow, except in the lower cycle in East Cameroon, is



APPENDIX I
Page 5
not smooth and repeaters tend to increase in higher grades. There is also
imbalance between the two cycles, the upper cycle representing only 14%
(7000) and 7% (400) of enrollment in East and West Cameroons respectively.
There is no adequate regulation or planning in keeping with financial and man-
power requirements. As the Ecole Normale Superieure has not been yet in a
position to produce the same proportion of teachers, many underqualified
teachers and expatriates had to be hired. They represented respectively 54%
(1200) and 35% (780) of the teaching staff in 1970/71. A majority of enroll-
ments (64% in East Cameroon and 83% in West Cameroon) is found in private in-
stitutions of unequal quality. The efficiency of the system is rather low.
The entrance test (added to the primary leaving examination) does not carry
out a satisfactory selection. Forty percent of general secondary entrants
drop out before the end of the lower cycle. In East Cameroon, over the last
five years, 40% of them have passed the Brevet (about 4000 in 1970) and, in
West Cameroon, about 30% the GCE level (an estimated 350 in 1970). About 6%
have passed the Baccalaureat (491 in 1970). In 1970, an estimated 100 passed
the GCE A'level in West Cameroon, the secondary examinations of which are
still corrected in Britain. This output is not sufficient to provide adequate
higher education recruits. The development of secondary education in the
northern region is still impaired by the shortage of primary leavers (para. 6
above). In 1970-71, there were only 2000 general secondary pupils i.e. 4%
of East Cameroon and 3.5% of the Federal Republic general secondary enroll-
ment distributed between nine schools (out of a national total of 169). Female
enrollment hardly amounted to 200 (10%). General improvement is expected
from the increasing number of qualified teachers trained at ENS, new curri-
cula (Appendix II para. 2) and school guidance progressively developed at
four levels: Secondary intake, end of the second year, and of lower and up-
per cycles. In most schools, there is too little instructional equipment
and almost no maintenance.
Secondary Teacher, Primary Inspector, Youth & Sports Inspector Training
14.       The Ecole Normale Superieure trains lower and upper secondary
teachers (over respectively two and four years), primary inspectors and
youth and sports inspectors (over three years) as shown in Annex 2 to this
appendix. Recruitment depends on entrance competitive examinations follow-
ing completion of secondary education. The structure of ENS is flexible:
it joins secondary teacher and inspector training and operates in close col-
laboration with the University. It gives in-service personnel an opportu-
nity to be upgraded at all levels. All trainees are either civil servants
or state bursary holders (with a ten year binding engagement). Over the last
five years, the overall enrollment has increased from 175 to 396. Repeti-
tion is exceptional through the courses and the trainees that fail in exami-
nations are appointed teachers under contract and allowed to sit for their
examinations again later. Drop out is very limited. Enrollments are almost
equally distributed over arts and sciences. The teaching staff amounts to
39 of whom 25 Cameroonians and 14 expatriates, all fully qualified.  In 1971,
the graduates amounted to 51 lower and 26 upper secondary teachers, and 7
primary and youth and sports inspectors. Lower secondary teachers for West
Cameroon are trained at the ENS annex included in the CAST at Bambili (West



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Cameroon) where the present enrollment is 46. The government's intention
is to curb down the annual increase rate of secondary enrollments to 7% in
the lower cycle and 10% in the upper cycle by 1976 and to 5% and 7% respec-
tively by 1981. The extension of ENS in Yaounde to 850 student places from
1975 and the 80 places provided at the West Cameroon annex under thie first
IDA project would make it possible to dispose of (i) 3,800 qualified Came-
roonian teachers out of the 4,500 secondary teachers required by 1980/81
(Annex I) - raising the proportion of national teachers from  the present
65% to 85% - and (ii) 150 inspectors to supervise the reform and follow-up
27,000 primary teachers efficiently (ratio 1:180). The new training pro-
grams, harmonized with primary and secondary education reforms, are satis-
factory. They comprise more than 50% of experimental work in laboratories
and teaching practice.
Vocational and Technical Education
15.       In 1970/71, secondary vocational and technical education enrollment
amounted to 19,130:15,930 in East Cameroon and 3200 in West Cameroon. Of
these students, 15,300 were industrial and commercial skilled worker and tech-
nician trainees. In East Cameroon, there were four types of institutions:
(a) Rural craft and domestic science sections offering a post-primary vo-
cational course of two years to 1,730 pupils (of whom 230 girls), (b) home
economics schools giving a terminal vocational course of three years to 1,130
girls, (c) C.E.T.'s in which 10,650 pupils, recruited after completion of prin--
ary education, attended a four year course to become skilled workers in indus-
try and commerce and (d) "Lycees Techniques" in which 1,490 pupils, recruited
after four years of general secondary education, prepared technician diplomas
or "baccalaureats techniques" (for admittance into higher education) over a
three-year upper secondary course. These "lycees techniques" still included
930 students attending lower general secondary classes which will progressive-
ly disapppear from these institutions according to the new structure (Appendix
II).   In West Cameroon, the 3,200 lower technical secondary pupils, recruited
after completion of primary education, were trained over five years in private
schools (preparing for the examinations of the City & Guilds of London Insti-
tute) and four years in the only public school at Ombe, the curricula and ex-
aminations of which are unified with those of East Cameroon schools.
16.       Between 1965-66 and 1970-71, technical education enrollments grew
by about 200% in East Cameroon and 240% in West Cameroon owing to the social
demand. The number of private schools of unequal quality also increased:
In 1970/71, they represented respectively 69% and 94% of enrollments in East
and West Cameroon. There is still no public skilled worker training school in
the coastal region where 75% of the national qualified labor force is employed.
The efficiency of the system is low, particularly in the private schools: In
East Cameroon, 40% of CET entrants reach the end of the skilled worker training
course (4 years) and 23% obtain their certificate (43% in public schools and
only 11% in private institutions). As to the three year upper course, 46% of
entrants drop out before the end and only 25% obtain their diploma. In West
Canmeroon, 63% of enitrants drop out before the fifth and last year of training.
On average, it takes 7.2 years/student (instead of 4) in East Cameroon and



APPENDIX I
Page 7
10.7 (instead of 5) in West Cameroon to train a skilled worker. In 1971, 750
technical and commercial skilled workers completed their training course suc-
cessfully and 144 upper secondary pupils obtained their upper secondary di-
ploma (of whom 133 technicians) respectively out of 2,370 and 293 candidates.
The students/teacher ratio is 21:1 in East Cameroon but 61% of the 770 teach-
ers are underqualified especially workshop teachers. In West Cameroon, 49%
of the 90 teachers are qualified and the students/teacher ratio is 35:1.
Most of the schools are very poorly equipped. The government intends to
make technical education more relevant to economic needs in quantity, through
moderate extension of schools, and quality through structural and curricular
reforms (Appendix II) and up-to-date equipment.
17.       The northern region which has a privileged place in the government's
development strategy is particularly poor in technical institutions (4 out of
a federal total of 82). Technical education enrollment is also very limited:
188 lower secondary pupils (of whom 172 in three CET's and 16 in the home eco-
nomics school) and 289 pupils in vocational rural craft and domestic science
sections.  Female enrollment only amounts to 48 out of a total of 477 pupils,
i.e. 10% of total enrollment versus a federal average of 35%.
Non-formal Vocational Training
18.       Beside the training given in the rural craft, domestic science and
home economics sections of formal technical education, vocational training is
offered in piecemeal schemes organized by private firms for their own person-
nel - such as the National Railroad Company, Regifercam, or the Renault car
firm - by private inter-enterprise associatons - especially for small and mid-
dle firm managers and bank staff -, by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or
by the Ministry of Labor which sponsors three small accelerated vocational
training centers, one for industry with 25 places and two for commerce with a
total of 80 places. ILO and UNIDO assist two of these programs. In 1970/71,
all these non-formal schemes trained or upgraded 1,270 skilled workers and em-
ployees (510), technicians (470) and firm managers (290). There is no ade-
quate coordination between all these programs which are too limited, dispersed
and narrowly organized to complement formal technical education.
Agricultural Education
19.       Agricultural secondary education aims almost exclusively at train-
ing a limited number of civil servants at skilled worker and technician lev-
els in agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and cooperative management.
It has been offered over the last six years in eight small, dispersed insti-
tutions in East Cameroon and three institutions in West Cameroon to an aver-
age overall enrollment of 250 p.a. with a total teaching staff of about 40,
which gives a teacher/pupils ratio of 1:6. Since 1960, 100 veterinary agents
have been produced by the CFZV in Maroua which consists of one classroom and
one laboratory; the four lower schools of agriculture (ETA's) have had an
overall output of 160 agents since 1965. In East Caneroon, the training net-
work is complete: It includes the skilled worker and technician levels in
the four above-mentioned branches; in West Cameroon, only agriculture tech-
nicians, veterinary skilled workers and cooperative agents are trained, re-
spectively at the College of Arts, Science and Technology in Bambili (where



APPENDIX I
Page 8
100 places will be reserved to agriculture students under the first IDA proj-
ect), the Livestock Investment Center at Jakiri and the Cooperative School at
Mungo. All training institutions are public; the teaching staff is qualified
and includes 55% of Cameroonians. There is almost no drop-out and the output
enters the Civil Service almost exclusively.
20.       So far, technician trainees have been recruited at Brevet or G.C.E.
Ordinary Level (after four or five years of secondary education) and trained
over three years in East Cameroon (two years only for cooperative mnanagement
technicians) and two years in West Cameroon, with satisfactory results. Skill-
ed workers, on the other hand, have been recruited after completion of primary
education only and their lack of academic background (added to the lack of ade-
quate equipment in most schools) has kept them from reaching an adequate level
of efficiency as extension agents even after a specific training of one year
in West Cameroon or two years in East Cameroon (one year only for cooperative
management skilled clerks). The governments of East and West Cameroon are de-
termined to institutionalize the recruitment of skilled worker trainees after
a minimum of two years of secondary education in the intermediate future to
remedy this deficiency. Curricula are being progressively renewed with a
view to giving all students a general technical approach before specializa-
tion, more experimental work and a closer contact with rural environment.
21.       The West Cameroon government intends to extend its education sys-
tem to (i) agriculture at skilled worker level, (ii) animal husbandry at
technician level and (iii) forestry at both levels. However, as regards
forestry and animal husbandry, the annual number of trainees that the budget
would allow to be hired upon graduation would be very limited (about 10
skilled workers and 5 technicians for each). The Livestock Investment Cen-
ter at Jakiri, which already trains 10 skilled workers p.a., is adequately
equipped and staffed to train 10 technicians over two years. In forestry,
the school at Mbalmayo in East Cameroon could train the required agents - as
the linguistic problem which kept English speaking West Cameroonians from
joining this school will be solved by the recruitment of skilled trainees af-
ter two years of secondary education (during which language teaching will be
reinforced according to the new curricula). As to agriculture students, the
first IDA project will provide sufficient facilities (100 student places).
Rural Training
22.       Rural training is offered to young and adult farmers through various
schemes with a duration ranging from 15 days to one year. Public ministries
(Youth and Sports, Planning & Territorial Development, Secretariats of State
for Rural Development of East and West Cameroons) provide technical, socio-
economic, management and community development training in 13 types of schemes,
many of which duplicate one another. Private organizations (bilateral, multi-
lateral and religious) offer training in 34 centers (30 in East Cameroon and
4 in West Cameroon). Trainee recruitment, training programs and methods, fi-
nancing and efficiency vary to a great extent. There is no proper coordina-
tion between these schemes and precise data as to their working and efficiency
are still unknown for lack of an appropriate analytical survey.



APPENDIX I
Page 9
23.       Higher Education is given on a federal bilingual basis in eleven
institutions comprising five faculties (including two faculties of theology)
and six higher schools or institutes (including the ENS). Courses last from
two to six years. The upper secondary diploma (Baccalaureat or GCE A'level)
gives direct admission into faculties but admission into higher schools and
institutes depends on entrance examinations. Enrollments have increased from
1,275 in 1965-66 to 2,700 in 1970-71, i.e. (211%) over five years. In 1970-71,
enrollments were distributed as follows: 1,095 students took law and economics
and 110 management; 450 arts, 25 journalism and 105 theology; 430 sciences, 90
medicine and 45 agronomy; 335 education and 15 sports and community develop-
ment. In terms of enrollment and output, the distribution over the four main
categories ran as follows:
As % of          As % of
total  Female  Category          As % of         As % of
Enroll- Enroll- Enroll-  Enroll-            total  Female category
Category        ment    ment    ment       ment   Output output  Output  Output
Law, economics,
business    1,210      45%      52        4.3%    180    44%        5      3.6%
Arts and
theology       580     21%      68      11.7%    113    27%       15      13.2%
Scientific
subjects       560     21%      43        7.7%     38      9%      4      10.5%
Education        350      13%     47       13.4%     84    20%        6      7.0%
Total    2,700              210       7.8%    415              30       7.2%
Drop-out is considerable in Sciences.  The estimated number of students abroad
was about 600. The teaching staff amounted to 220, all qualified, of whom 126
(57%) expatriates. Beside provision of teachers, external aid is mainly fo-
cussed on the extension of the Medicine and Health Science Institute and the
creation of the "Institut Polytechnique" (to train jointly higher technicians,
engineers and technical upper secondary teachers).






ANNEX 1 TO APPENDIX I
ENROLLMENTS and TEACHING STAFF (1970-71)
Enrollments                      Teachers
As % of
Overall
Enroll-             As % of                     As % of
Total   nents      Private    Total     Total  Private   Total
1. Primary       East    725,500    71.7     315,000      43      13,900    6,500     47
West    208,500    20.6     208,500    100       5,600    5,600    100
Total  934,000    92.3    523,500       56      19,500   12,100      62
2. Secondary    East    66,670       6.6      43,400     65        2,725    1,765     65
West      8,760     0.8       7,550     86          377      300     80
Total    75,430     7.4      50,950     68       3,102    2,065      67
a) General      East     50,510     5.0      32,350      64       1,920    1,350     70
Secondary   West       5,520     0.5       4,550     83          280      220     79
Total    56,010     5.5      36,90      66       2,200    1,570      71
b) Technical    East i/ 15,930      1.6      11,050      69         770      415     54
Secondary   West       3,200     0.3       3,000      94          90       80     89
Total    19,130     1.9      14,050     74          860      495     57
c) Agricul-    East         230    negl         -         0          35      -        0
tural       West         40                           0           7      -        0
Secondary
Total       270                          0 -  o     42                0
3. Higher        Total     2,700    0.3           104      4         220      19      8.5
4. GRAND TOTAL         1,012,000    100      574,500      57      22,800   14,300     62
(rounded)
1/ Including the 930 students of general classes still part of technical schools
and the 2860 trainees of T"post primnary" pre-vocational sections (Rural craft,
domestic science and home economics).






ANNEX 2 TO APPENDIX I
CAMEROON
STRUCTURE OF THE ECOLE NORMALE SUPERIEURE
(1970)
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING SECTION                                         INSPECTOR TRAINING SECTION
Entrance                                                    Entrance
Examination                                                 Examination   -          Grade I primary
-  .,.              teachers and
1st year   v                                                    C                   civil servants
1l st year         I     ii                                                                           holding an
[      j                                                     [~J                    upper secondary
diploma
Promotion test
Common
Cycle                        Promotion test                                                         Entrance         Lower general
examination   secondary teachers
(with 2 years'
seniority)
2nd year22
Promotion test
Entrance
| CAPCEG  |      University degree                                             examination   Upper secondary
(DUEL/DUJES)                                                                teachers
Lower secondary
teachers
Entrance selection
(1)   |               ~~~~~~~(2)
3rd Year                                                             CAIP
University degree                                                                      Youth and
("License")                                                                            sports inspectors
Entrance
examination                                                               Primary
inspectors
"License" or
Bachelor's degree
4th year            4                   holders
other than
ENS students
|CAPES|
Upper secondary  4
teachers
NOTES: 1CAIP   =  Certificat d'Aptitude a l'Inspection Primaire (Primary inspector's degree)
2CAIJESEP  =  Certificat d'Aptitude a l'lnspection de la Jeunesse, des Sports et de l'Education Physique
(Youth and sports inspector's degree)
World Bank-6566(2R)






APPENDIX II
Page 1
The Principles of the Reform
1.        The reform of secondary education structures, jointly undertaken
by East and West Cameroon authorities, is based on: (a) the creation of a
two-year common course of general education for all students, or orientation
cycle, followed by (b) a lower cycle consisting either of (i) two to three-
year training courses for agricultural and industrial skilled workers or (ii)
continuation for another two years of general education; (c) the students
having completed four years of general education will choose between either
(i) one to three-year training courses for primary teachers, commercial
skilled clerks and agricultural, industrial or commercial technicians re-
spectively or (ii) a three-year senior primary teacher training course or
(iii) various three-year streams preparing for university. Moreover, at
the beginning of each agricultural or technical training course, all stud-
ents will attend a six month to one year common course providing general
knowledge and practice in the sector chosen. This will broaden the range
of general technical acquisitions and permit a wider choice of specializa-
tion thereafter. The reform will shorten skilled worker training by one or
two years for industrial trainees and by two to three years for commercial
trainees thereby substantially accelerating enrollment turnover. In addi-
tion, for industrial skilled worker trainees, it will reduce general courses
to seven hours a week in sciences, mathematics, and language in the third
year basically devoted to in-plant practice. School guidance will be de-
veloped parallel with the structural reform to steer students to the most
appropriate educational courses: at secondary intake, after the two-year
orientation cycle, after the general education lower cycle (para. bii above)
and at the end of the upper cycle preparing for university (para. ciii above).
2.        The reform of curricula aims at the same time at educating ade-
quately for employment the students leaving school at the end of a cycle
and giving the required background to those who will continue their studies:
(a)  In primary education, a competent Unesco and Cameroonian
team has developed (i) a new primary curriculum based on
the knowledge of local environment and practical acquisi-
tions including agricultural, workshop and domestic science
practice and (ii) semi-programmed teaching techniques aiming
primarily at the development of child's creativity and know-
how. Primary teacher training has been reorganized in view
of the new curricula and focussed on the acquisition of ex-
perimental teaching techniques adapted to the nei4 teaching
materials, thie production of which has already started. The
training also aims at making teachers village leaders and
includes community development, school guidance and admin-
istration techniques. A complete training and upgrading
program hias been produced and its implementation initiated
for teachers, teacher trainers, school administrators and
inspectors.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
(b)  In general secondary education, curricula have been pro-
duced by a joint East and West Cameroonian commission.
English and French have been reinforced; social sciences
have been focussed on national and contemporary realities;
industrial arts have been introduced into all lower sec-
tions; experimental practice has been reinforced in science
and language teaching. Economics, statistics and management
have been included, not only in the newly created economic
section, but also in arts sections so that arts leavers
could be prepared, not only for further education, but
also for immediate employment. Secondary teacher training
programs have been harmonized with the new curricula which
are progressively introduced. The acquisition of profes-
sional knowledge and teaching practice have been reinforced.
(c) In technical education curricula, the reform will increase
the proportion of professional knowledge and practice in
the lower cycle (from 68% to 79% in industrial sections and
from 57% to 65% in commercial ones). In the industrial upper
cycle, 70% of the weekly schedule will be exclusively devoted
to professional training. Training conditions will be im-
proved by the introduction of up-to-date equipment in keeping
with the requirements of modern techniques.
Representatives of industry and commerce will be introduced
into the boards of technical schools and will take a direct
part in the organization of the compulsory in-plant practice
program (one year for skilled workers and one semester for
sub-professional technicians). The common participation of
the private sector in the management of technical education
and non-formal vocational training will contribute to make
technical training a better integrated scheme. A technical
teacher training program initiated in 1970-71 will be em-
phasized so as to produce the lower cycle teachers required
along the lines of the above-mentioned reform. Upper cycle
teachers will go on being trained abroad until the opening
of the Institut Polytechnique, a higher technical institu-
tion to be built with French assistance.
(d) At all levels of agricultural education, the new programs
emphasize laboratory and field work which represent 50% to
60% of the schedule. They also introduce rural socio-economy
and management as well as compulsory extension practice in
villages during summer vacations. This more practical and
experimental trend implies larger expenditures for the modern-
ization of equipment. In higher agricultural education, the
programs will go on integrating teaching, research and exten-
sion practice in view of the polyvalent role played by the
graduates. Agricultural secondary teachers will be produced
by the Higher School of Agriculture (EFSA) in keeping with
the new trends and curricula referred to above.



REFORMED STRUCTURE
S3       54           Skilled worker training (Agriculture)
{ 55 3       Junior primary teacher training
S      kil6          eSkilled worker training (Commerce)
S5       S-{6{i    Si     f >    General education- . . . . WUniversity
S 5      S6       S7            Technician training
Senior primary teacher training
Skilled worker training (Industry)
SiH      +- *52C               Craft training
LOWER                                          UPPER
Primary                                                                                 Secondary                                                                          2
m
x
NOTES: (1) In GradesS5, 6 and 7, general education comprisesdiversified programs in Arts, Sciencesand Techniquespreparing for                                                                  -X
higher education.
(2) Grade 55 is devoted to in-plant practice (except for seven hours of reinforcement courses at school).                                                                              >a
m
0   Guidance tests and orientation.                                                                                                                                                   2U
x
World Bank-6679(R)






APPENDIX III
Page 1
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1.        Detailed information on labor market characteristics is scanty.
lanpower projections for the third five year plan are based on a 1971 labor
market survey 1/ and they will be corrected as required when an ongoing ela-
borate labor market study is finished shortly. Wage employment has increased
at a compounded annual rate of 5.5% in the last five years (5.8% for the priv-
ate sector and 5% for the public). A small drop in the annual overall growth
rate is expected in the next ten years, to about 5%, as the rate of expansion
of new job opportunities in the private sector will be slightly reduced.  By
1980, employment in the modern sector is estimated to be, on the basis of pre-
sent indicators, of the order of 280,000 or one wage earner per 26 inhabi-
tants. Of the 170,000 wage earners in 1971, about 30% were in the public sec-
tor and the rest in the private and semi-public sectors. In East Cameroon the
secondary sector employed about 42% of the wage earners and the primary sec-
tor 25%. The respective percentages for West Cameroon were 6% and 83%.
2.        Projections over the third five year development plan are from
S.E.D.E.S.'s study and estimates (para. 1) which have been carried out separ-
ately for the private and public sectors. Two methods have been used in this
study to assess the demand for manpower: the conventional method based on ag-
gregate sectoral growth rates and the micro approach determining the jobs
that new or extended projects would create. The private sector's manpower re-
quirements of the third five year plan were summarily assessed as follows:
primary sector 10,160; secondary sector 14,820; and, tertiary sector 8,470.
In addition, the annual attrition rate of Cameroonian personnel has been
fixed at 2.7% and the Cameroonization of 1,950 posts was included in the
plan's estimates.
3.        The annual growth rate of the public sector's labor absorption was
estimated at 5%, with civil servants, contractual employees and local council
workers increasing at 6% p.a. and auxiliary and miscellaneous employees at
4% p.a. A public sector expansion of the order of 14,000 employees is antici-
pated in the plan. In addition, the annual turnover rate was fixed at 3.3%
for civil servants and 2.7% for non-civil service personnel of the sectors.
Finally, estimates for Cameroonization of 30% of posts held by foreign profes-
sionals and almost complete replacement of all other expatriates were included.
The total number of jobs to be offered by the public sector were estimated in
the order of 22,000 by 1975/76. The sector would still account for 30% of the
wage employment in that year.
1/   Emploi et Formation au Cameroun, Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement
Economique et Social, Paris, Juin 1971.



APPENDIX III
Page 2
4.        Because there are no sufficient data that can be used for long term
projections, pending the completion of the on-going in-depth labor market sur-
vey, about the same growth rates of employment in the private and public sec-
tors were used to obtain an order of magnitude of the wage sector employment
in 1976/81. More specifically, the assumptions for these estimates were: a
5% (versus 5.1% in the third plan) compounded growth rate of the private sec-
tor's employment and similarly for the public sector. Attrition rates were
fixed at 2.7% p.a. for the private sector and 3% p.a. for civil servants (ver-
sus 3.3% p.a. in the third plan). No special allowance was included for Ca-
meroonization of posts in view of (a) the almost all inclusive assumptions of
the third plan and (b) the fact that a few posts at professional and manage-
ment levels would always be occupied by non-Cameroonians.
5.        In addition, an analysis of the potential absorption of personnel
by the public and private sectors was used to identify agricultural manpower
requirements and a special 1971 labor survey of the northern region only was
used to estimate the manpower requirements for technicians and skilled labor
of that area.
6.        Estimates of requirements for technicians and skilled workers in
the coastal region are based on overall projections of the labor force (this
Appendix paras. 1-5) because of lack of a regional survey. Various sources
have established that the coastal region accounts for about 75% of the indus-
trial and commercial labor force in Cameroon. On this assumption, it is esti-
mated that the region's requirements would be in the minimum order of 6,500
skilled workers and 2,000 technicians during the third development plan and
7,500 and 2,200 respectively in 1977-81. They would be distributed almost
equally among the industrial and commercial sectors. (Domestic servants are
not included in these estimates). Because of the tentative base of these es-
timates (this Appendix, para. 1), they should be interpreted with caution and
in anticipation of the more reliable indicators to be developed by the on-
going in-depth labor market study.
7.        Because of the government's interest in the development of the
northern region, a special regional labor market survey was carried out in
early 1971 to assist in developing an understanding of the structure of the
wage sector in the northern region and an assessment of its requirements for
skilled manpower and technicians. 1/ The survey covered 90% of industrial
firms, 70% of construction, 88% of mechanics, 80% of commerce and transport,
100% of banks and 98% of the local communities. It was found that (a) none
of the 44 professionals working in northern Cameroon were locals, about 86%
were expatriates and the rest Cameroonians from other regions; (b) only 6%
of the 71 higher technicians were from northern Cameroon (20% were other
Cameroonians and 74% expatriates); (c) only 19% of the 195 technicians were
North Cameroonians (46% were other Cameroonians and 35% expatriates; and,
1/   "Enquete Emploi 1970/71", Region Administrative du Nord-Cameroun, In-
spection Federale de Garoua, 1971.



APPENDIX III
Page 3
(d) of the skilled and semi-skilled 50% and 75% respectively were North
Cameroonians. The requirements for the third plan were estimated on the
basis of the firms' own estimates of expansion and allowances for govern-
ment sponsored projects in the area. The requirements for 1971/76, includ-
ing attrition were estimated at about 550 skilled workers and 150 techni-
cians. These numbers represent about 65% of the total available manpower
in the respective fields which amounted to 1,100 at the time of the survey.
For the 1977/81 period a further increase of 60%, over 1975/76 levels was
assumed in view of the completion of key projects in the region by 1975/76.
Because of the predominantly young wage labor the attrition rate has been
assumed to be almost negligible, less than one percent per year. No re-
placement of expatriate personnel has been assumed in the 1971/76 estimates,
but a 50% replacement assumption has been incorporated in the estimates for
the latter period.






APPENDIX IV
Page 1
Education Finance
1.        The expansion of the education sector has been a priority objec-
tive of the government and, as a result, substantial funds have been com-
mitted for education capital expenditures and a high annual growth rate of
recurrent expenditures has been allowed in the development plans for the
sector. But, because of delays in project implementation and the long time
period required to increase substantially student flows throughout the sys-
tem, the sector's expenditures during the second plan period were substan-
tially below targeted levels. For example, realized public capital expend-
itures on education amounted to only 36% of the plan's allocations and,
when considering the private sector and foreign aid contributions, they
amounted to about 68% of the targeted total for the first four years of
the second plan for which data were available at the time of appraisal.
Similarly, in recurrent expenditures while the plan's indicative growth
rate for education was 14.7% p.a., the actual annual average was only 12.6%
thanks primarily to a 22% jump in these expenditures in 1970/71.
2.        The changing distribution of the responsibility of financing edu-
cation among the federal and the state governments is illustrated below for
1964/65 and 1969/70.
Public Recurrent Expenditures on Education and Training
(CFAF Millions)
1964-65                         1969-70
Expend-   As %              Expend-  As %               Rate
iture      of    Distrib-  iture on  of      Distrib-   of
on Edu-   Total  ution of  Educa-   Total   ution of  Growth
cation    Expend. Expend.  tion      Expend. Expend.    p.a.
East Cameroon         1,677     23.3    37%      2,993     27.9      38%     12.3%
West Cameroon           477     23.8    10%      1,100     41.7      14%     18.1%
Federal Government   2,390      13.5    53%      3,841     13.9      48%     10.9%
Total           4,544      18.7   100%     7,934      20.4    100%      11.8%
Allowing for a couple of percentage points of annual price increases, the
growth of education expenditures in East and West Cameroon have been sig-
nificantly higher than the growth of enrollments they have supported during
the same period. Had good control of these expenditures been instituted
earlier in the plan period, there would have been an appreciable gain in
the quality of educational services provided by the states or some funds
could have been reallocated to meet the needs of other priority sectors.



APPENDIX IV
Page 2
3.        This is particularly true for West Cameroon which is experiencing
a tight financial situation because of a limited revenue base and depends on
a federal subsidy to meet about 60% of its expenditures. This state's edu-
cation expenditures had soared until 1970/71 because of the lack of centrally
controlled planning, coordination and expenditure allocation among the var-
ious Voluntary Agencies that manage and operate almost exclusively, with
public subsidy, primary education and much of teacher training (Table). The
demands for funds f,r education placed upon the state government surpassed
the ability of the government to meet them and in 1970/71 it could not pay
the teacher salary bill. About 1,000 unqualified teachers had to be dis-
missed and the salary bill was met by supplementary federal subsidy. In
addition, drastic measures were taken to control the expansion and effi-
ciency of the system, and to increase education revenues.
West Cameroon Total Revenues and Expenditures on Primary
Education and Primary Teacher Training
(CFAF Millions)
Of which:
Revenues        Federal       Expenditures
Year           Total          Subsidy       on Education        c/a
(a)            (b)              (c)
1964/65       1,841            1,200            477      c        9%
1965/66       2,466            1,750            613            24.9%
1966/67       2,434            1,550            710            29.1%
1967/68       2,839            1,800            770            27.9%
1968/69       2,887            1,640            850            29.4%
1969/70       2,634            1,490          1,070 /1         40.6%
/1   Differs from the total mentioned elsewhere in the report because it
excludes all other training in West Cameroon which is also supported
by the federated budget.
4.        These measures included abolition of travel expatriation and var-
ious miscellaneous allowances for Voluntary Agency Education Secretaries; of
leave allowances for expatriates; of allowances to students undergoing teacher
training; of administrative expenses paid to Voluntary Agencies and which
amounted to CFAF 3,000 per teacher in senior primary schools and CFAF 7,000
per teacher in junior primary schools. Also, the pupil/teacher ratio was
fixed in the range of 35:1 to 45:1; the minimum number of teacher periods
in a teacher training College at 22 and of the Principal at 8; and the
miiiitimtusl age for school entrv was raised to six vears.  The government introduced



APPENDIX IV
Page 3
auditing control of expenditures by the Voluntary Agencies, changed promo-
tion procedures and also introduced a system of charges amounting to CFAF
100 per pupil/term in rural areas, CFAF 200 per pupil/term in semi-urban
areas and CFAF 300 per pupil/term in urban areas. A repeater's charge of
CFAF 500 was introduced and registration and administration charges were
also imposed. Along with other measures it is expected that the new charges
would raise from CFAF 150-200 million in addition to about CFAF 200 million
already raised from local education taxes but integrated in the State's
total revenues. These revenues would represent close to 50% of the primary
level recurrent expenditures in West Cameroon, and this proportion would
increase if the new tight control of the system and charges would reduce
the repeaters who account for about 22% of the enrollments. Data submitted
by a Voluntary Agency for the first quarter of the 1971/72 year showed re-
peaters to be only 8% but no sufficient information was available at the
time of appraisal to determine whether this reduction was also representative
of the structure of enrollments at other voluntary agencies.
5.        A study undertaken by the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Educa-
tion on primary education in East Cameroon for 1969/1970, assessed the ori-
gin of the total operational expenditures at that level and their distrib-
ution. As the table illustrates below, the state budget contributes about
65% of the expenditures, local communities about 29%, foreign assistance
only about 1% and other local agencies about 5%.
(CFAF Thousands)
Federated  Other Public    Local        External
Budget       Agencies   Communities    Aid       Total
Public                    1,887          189           393         30       2,499
Private-Catholic            390           -            491         13         894
Private-Protestant          227           -            231           6        465
Private Lay and Franco-
Arab                       47           -             41           1         88
Total                2,551          189        1,156          50       3,946
Percentage              64.6          4.8          29.3        1.3
The salaries for personnel account for 74% of the total recurrent expendi-
tures and in their majority they are met by the state budget (88%). The
remainder is met by the collections from parents. These collections also
account for almost all of the schools' expenditures on didactic and related
materials. The unit costs for the different schools varied,considerably.
They were estimated at:
CFAF 6,560 (US$26)         for the public schools;
CFAF 4,340 (US$17)         for the Catholic schools;
CFAF 4,720 (US$18)         for the Protestant schools;



APPENDIX IV
Page 4
CFAF 5,310 (US$21)         for the Lay and Franco-Arab schools.
The average was about CFAF 5,600 (US$22).
6.        Estimates of recurrent unit costs, including the real cost of
technical assistance that is assumed by Cameroon, have been estimated for
1969/70, the only year for which all required data has been gathered. The
costs are generally reasonable except for three University faculties for
which, however, substantial economies of scale would be realized from antic-
ipated expansion. The unit costs are given below:
Level             CFAF      US$    Level                          CFAF   US$
Primary East      5,120     20      Secondary Technical:
Primary West      4,350     17      1st Cycle                   132,660   378
Post Primary:                       2nd Cycle                   146,710   573
Rural training  28,930    113      Higher Education-Average:
Home Economics  47,420    185       Law                         116,000   453
Secondary General:                  Letters                     336,900 1,320
First Cycle     50,100    196       Sciences                    385,350 1,505
Second Cycle    72,800    284      Health                       928,090 3,620
Agriculture               1,546,780 6,040
Teacher Training            826,100 3,230
The unit costs of the Faculty of Agriculture are exorbitant because they
include research and extension activities which occupy about 75% of the
staff's time.
7.        The real cost to Cameroon of technical assistance varies.  The
government's contribution is CFAF 50,000 per month per man for the French
specialists and CFAF 38,000 for the English. The total cost to Cameroon
of each specialist, including the government's provision of housing, has
been estimated by the Ministry of Education Planning Unit at about CFAF
1.3 million for the French technical assistance, CFAF 1.2 million for the
English and about CFAF 800,000 for the rest.



APPENDIX V
External Aid
1.        Much of the expansion of the education system has been financed by
multilateral and bilateral agencies, which are expected to continue their
considerable involvement in the immediate future. This assistance has been
directed at meeting needs at all levels and types of education, and require-
ments, for teachers, technical assistance and fellowships. An aggregation
of such aid on a yearly basis is not possible because of commitments over
different periods of time and lack of data regarding project actual or plan-
ned expenditures over uniform time periods.
2.        Among the more important contributors are F.A.C. and F.E.D.  F.A.C.'s
support of the sector amounts to about US$12 million or 40% of its total as-
sistanice to Cameroon. Much of it is for technical assistance - 1,000 teachers -
but other operations such as construction and equipment for training facili-
ties, fellowships and subsidies for the operation of institutions have been
included in the Agency's operations. F.E.D. is in its second program for
Cameroon covering the period 1972-74. A total of US$14.5 million is sched-
uled to build over 700 primary school classrooms, 530 staff houses, support
the newT construction or strengthening of other institutions and provide fel-
lowships for their operations.
3.        Other donor countries or agencies include the U.K. which expends
annually about US$500,000 (primarily for technical assistance - 41 teachers
and fellowships). The British Government is also constructing an English
Department at the University. The United States Government has a large pro-
gram of support of the education sector that includes technical assistance -
73 teachers - scholarships, provision of equipment for the IPAR ($410,000),
the creation and financial support of the Agricultural Economics Department
in EFSA - for which US$10 million has been committed for 1970-75, assistance
to the Pan African Development Institute (US$155,000) and the Faculty of
Health and Medicine (US$3.5 million). Holland offered assistance of about
$1.5 million in 1970 for various programs and technical assistance. Canada's
involvement includes support of 80 teachers on technical assistance, $2.2
million for a Comprehensive Lycee, subsidies for 10 schools ($415,000) and
a commitment of future assistance to the Faculty of Health and Medicine of
$1.5 million. Switzerland has expended a total of Swiss Francs 8.9 million
for formal education and rural training schemes. The U.S.S.R. is extending
a forestry and an agricultural technician training centers estimated to cost
$4.4 million. Among the largest other donors extending assistance to the
education sector are Germany, Israel and Belgium.
4.        UNDP is also supporting a number of future projects including
office clerk training (ILO), educational planning (UNESCO), language teach-
ing (IJUNESCO), school guidance (UNESCO), rural youth training (FAO). At the
time of appraisal the approved projects amounted to $2.7 million for 1972
and $2.1 for 1973/76.



APPENDIX VI
Technical Assistance
1.        The project would include provision for 21 man-years of specialist
services and 5 man-years of fellowship training outside Cameroon distributed
as follows:
(a)  3 man-years of expert services for a pre-investment study
of rural training and agricultural education,
(b)  1 man-year of expert services for a pre-investment study
of technical education and vocational training require-
ments in Northern Cameroon,
(c)  6 man-years of expert services for three primary teacher
training specialists, one in each of the three colleges
included in the project. These specialists would assist
college directors in applying the new training and retrain-
ing programs,
(d)  11 man-years of expert services for four vocational training
specialists to assist the national director and teaching
staff in the initiation of the adult vocational guidance
and training center in Douala. The assistance would apply
to the following fields: administrative and technical man-
agement (3 man-years) vocational guidance (3 man-years),
workshop training, programming and management (3 man-years),
teaching aids and methods (2 man-years),
(e)  5 man-years of scholarships for the director and four national
specialists of the above-mentioned center. The fields of
specialization covered by the scholarship program would be
(i) those listed in para. (c) above and (ii) functional
literacy through vocational training.
2.        The detailed implementation schedule of this program is given in
the annex to this appendix.



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TIMETABLE
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      1976
Total    Quarter   Quarters  Quarters  Quarters  Quarters  Quarters  Quarters
Specialization                    Man/Months      4     1 2 3 h   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 h   1 2 3 h   1 2 3 h   1 2 3 4
1,    EXPERT SERVICES
1.01  Primary Teacher Training Specialists
(i) At Garoua                                   (24                 ba                                  Jl x xxx   x x x
(ii) At Nkongsamba                            72 (2h                    x   x x x x   x x x
(iii) At Kumba                                    (24                                         x   xx x x   x x x
1.02  Adult Vocational Guidance and Training
Specialists
(i) Administrative & Technical Management       (36                                       x x    x  x x x   x x x x   x x
(ii) Voca.tional Guidance                    132 (36                                       x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x
(iii) WorkshopTraining, Programming & Manag.    (36                                           x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x
(iv) Teaching Aids and Methods                   (2L                                             x x x x   x x x x
1.03 Pre-investment study of rural training and
agricutura.l education:
(i) Agricultural Economist                      (9              x x x
(ii) Agricultural Educator                    36 (9               x x x
(iii) Rural Training Specialists (2)              (18            ( x X x
1.04 Pre-investment study of technical education and
v c tional training requirements in the North
(i Economist                                 12 (6               x x
(ii) Educational Planner                         (6               x x
TOTAL EXPERTS SERVICES                         252
2.   SCHOLARSHIPS
2.01  Adult Vocational Guidance and Training
(i) Administra.tive & Technical Management      (12                                                  x x   x x                  0
(ii) Vocational Guidance                         (12                                                  x x   x x
(iii) Workshop Training, Programming & Mana.g.60 (12                                                     x   x x x
(iv) Teaching Aids and Methods                   (12                                                    x   x x x
(v) Functional Literacy through Vocational
Training                                  (12                                                    x   x x x
TOTAL FELLOWSHIPS                               60
/ 'Four months
bJ Two months






>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     r    S        fi WWt>Bsbir=QSYf 
t u ~~~~~hNVp:bW;X       2 OS9>"    -r o ?DR -~     
o                                   Y DrrwebZ> X~r'w               
a u e   a - W   X o   b D  2 8 8  se 8 = = D 8 >~~~~~~~~
s g t < 8 o g - _ r S 9 w w E 8 t cx n p g B a o B F < ffi g X g * n G 8~~
n~~~~~~~ e                                                                    -         8-oS8X=>aD        
~~~~~~~~~~~-sw-<                                                                                            -  
II                                          ,.g  W                                      0$-Oaoo  -Ovv  ggg WOWVOOWWOOOoS woow&o
er. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  00--Dww oo   ww>uopoow  W  zwsi- _ 
_ _->-D-vfflOffl~~~~~~ 0P00000   00000D@                                               @   N_0 W*                      000.wS _ 
W~~~~~~~~0                                  0   000wwva      WW    WW   W0W 0vvn 0VV 00-00n0-0 W 
wF                             oGs9g9n>oP<WOgHbotWgWs-      






CAMERO0GN6ECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GENERAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
(1970/71 - 1923O/-31)
Annual Enrollment Growth          EnrollmeLts                       Teachers               Students/Teacher Ratio
1970/7l   1975/76   1980/81   1970/71   1975/76   1980/81   1970/71   1975/76   1980/81   1970/71   1975/76   1980/81
(EAST    3.6      3.2         3      725,500   850,000   985,000   14,000    16,350    19,700       52        52         50
PRIMARY  (WEST    6.5       3.7        3      208,500   250,000   290,000    5,600      6,250     7,250       37        40        40
TOTAL    4.2       3.3        3      934,000 1,100,000 1,275,000   19,600    22,600    26,950        48        49        47
( EAST   12.9       7.7        7       43,5O0   63,000    88,400    1,600       2,250     3,150       27        28        28
(LOWER ( WEST   12.8       7.4        7       5,100     7,300     10,300       258       365       515      20         20        20
( C   (TOTAL   12.9        7.6        7       48,60o    70,300    98,700    1,858      2,615     3,665      26         27        27
~ (   ( EAST   21.5       11.5       10        7,000    12,000    19,400       322       500       810       22        24        24
(UPPER ( WEST   15        13.3       10          400       750     1,200        20        38        60       20        20        20
(TOTAL   21        11.5       10        7,400    12,750    20,600       342       538       870       22        24        24
TOTAL
SECONDARY      13.8       8.2        7.5    56,000    83,050   119,300    2,200        3,150     4,535      25        26         26
Notes: Enrollment in 1965-66
1.  Prinary                     2. General Secondary            3. Lower General Secondary       4. Upper General Secondary
EAST 609,500                    EAST  26,300                    EAST  23,650                     EAST  2,650
WEST  152,300                   WEST   3,000                    WEST  -2.800                     WEST    200
TOTAL  761,800                  TOTAL  29,300                   TOTAL  26,450                    TOTAL  2,850






CAMEROON
PUBLIC RECURRENT ElPt;NDITURiS ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1965/66-1969/70
(CFAF 000's)
1965/66    _       1966/7 6            1967/d8              19./ 9               169         _
Central Administration        218,969    4.2      233,619    3.9      251,030    3.9       329,693    4.7       376,847    4.8
Primary Education           2,240,408   43.1    2,769,961   46.4   2,795,083   43.5    3,062,590   43.4    3,479,880   43.8
Post-Primary Education         39,239     .8       38,508      .6      47,757      .7       52,138      .7       69,562      .9
Primary Teacher Training     127,019    2.4       161,661    2.7      249,748    3.9       258,253    3.7       320,079    4.1
Secondary General Ed.         884,882   17.0      968,481   16.2   1,100,414   17.1    1,134,500   16.1    1,210,092   15.2
Secondary Technical Ed.       330,201    6.3       342,610    5.7     382,358    6.o       424,526    6.o       489,908    6.1
Higher Education              694,493   13.3      779,650   13.1      860,690   13.4       975,289   13.8    1,143,667   14. 4
Youth and Sports              239,583    4.6       237,214    4.0     260,663    4.1       286,900    4.1       320,934    4.1
Agricultural Secondary Ed.   110,019    2.1       110,017    1.8      147,344    2.3       123,815    1.8       136,533    1.7
Other                         319,115    6.2      325,566    5.6      328,129    5.1       402,882    5.7       386,201    4.9
TOTAL           5,203,928  100.0    5,967,287  100.0   6,423,216  100.0    7,050,586  100.0    7,933,703  100.0
Source: Planning Unit, Ministry of Education



ANNEx 4
C AMEROON
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AND SOURCES OF FINANCE
(CFAF Millions)
A. Distribution of Capital Expenditures
Level of Education   Second Plan 1966/71   Percent Realized   Third Plan 1972/76
Plan         %            1966/70         Plan          %
Primary              2,275a/      24%             84%          5,350         25%
Secondary General    1,909         21%           109%          7,553         35%
Secondary Technical  1,300         14%            20%          2,812         13%
Higher               1,411         15%           112%          5,026         23%
Vocational Training)                                             100          .4%
Agricultural          2,424        26%            19%             140         .6%
Other              )                                             654         3.0%
Total            9,319       100              68%         21,635
B.  Financing of Plans
Public
State             24%                                      45%
Local Authori-
ties & Public
Bodies            4%                                       1%
External Aid      65%                                      42%
Private               7%                                      12%
a/ Local support and volunteer services are estimated at an additional
amount of Frs. lo Billion
Source: Ministries  of Education, Finance and Planning



CAMEROON SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE PROJECT ITEMS
STUDENT PLACES                           JOA,IslNG                               OUTPUT                                            lechnical
I                                                                                           l~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ousing  Assistance
I T E M S                                      Total           Additional            Total            Additional            Total            Additional             llnits           in-man-years
A.  GENERAL EDUCATION
1.  Primary Teacher Training
3/
(a) P.T.T.C.  Caroua                                210               210                 180                18(                   210              210                   4                   2
3/
(1-) P.T.T.C.  N'kongsamba                          210                -                  210                 -                    210                90                  -                   2
I/                                    2/                    3/
(c) P.T.T.C.  Kumba                                 210                70                 180                 sn                   210              140                                       2
4/
2.  Ecole Normale Superieure, Yaounde                     850               350                 550                240                  400               150                   -                   -
3.  I)emonstration "Lycee, Yaounde                      1,000             1,000                  -                  -                   300               300                   2                   -
Sub-Total                                     2,480       _     130                 1,120                470                1,130               890                   6                   6
B. 'I'ECHNICAL EDUCATION
1.  Formal Technical Education
(a) Upper Technical Schnol, Garoua                 325               325                 200                200                    90                90                  3
(b) Lower Technical School, Douala 5/              740               740                  -                  -                    250               250                  -
+ Workshop Teacher Training  -                50                50                  -                  -                     25               25                   -
6/
2.  Adult Vocational Center, Douala                       250               250                  60                 60                2,000        _    2_000                   3                  L6
Sub-Total                                     1,365             1,365                 260                260                2,365             2,365                   6                  16
C.  PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES
4
TOTALS                                        3,845             2,995               1,380                730                3,695             3,255                  12                  26
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                                                             .
TOTAL, (Without Contingencies)
Contingencies
TOTAL   (With Contingencies)
Foreign Exchange (69.37.)
Notes:
I/  The Primary Teacher Training Colle,,e in Kumba                                                        4/ 280 CAPCEG. + 100 CAPES + 20 Inspectors
inclucles a center for primary education reform.
5/ Included in the lower Technical School, Douala
2/  35 new places + 15 places obtained irom conversion of premises
6/ Trained and upgraded employees
3/ From 1980 onwards. Before this date, each P.T.T.C. will train
annually 105 new teachers and upgrade 315 in-service teachers



ANNEX 6
CAMEROON - SECOND EEWCATION PROJECT
PROJECT CO6TS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURES
C.F.A.F. (billions)      US $ (millions)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total      % of Total
1. Construction
Academic Communal
Facilities            0.27    0.36    0.63      1.04     1.44    2.48        27
Boarding                0.11    0.16    0.27      0.44     0.62    1.06        12
Staff Housing           0.02    0.03    0.05      0.09     0.12    0.21         2
Site Development        0.07    0.09    0.16      0.26     0.35    0.61         7
Professional Services   0.04    0.08    0.12      0.16     0.30    0.46        _
Sub-Total            0.51    0.72    1.23      1.99     2.83    4.82        53
2. Furniture               0.05    0.05    0.10      0.20     0.19    0.39         4
Equipment               0.06    0.65   0.71       0.25     2.52    2.77        31
Pre-InvestmentStUdies  0.01    0.03    0.04       0.04     0.10    0.14         1
Technical Assistance    0.04    0.13    0.17      0.14     0.55    0.69         8
Project Administration  0.02    0.04    o.o6      o.o6     0.19    0.25         3
Sub-Total             0.18    0.90    1.08      0.69     3.55    4.24        47
TOTAL PROJECT COST    0.69    1.62    2.31      2.68     6.38    9.06       100
(excluding contingencies)
3.  Contingencies         0.21    0.38    0.59      0.81     1.51    2.32        25
TOTAL PROJECT COST    0.90    2.00    2.90      3.49     7.89   11.38
(including contingencies)



CAMEROON - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIT CAPITAL COST AND USE FACTOR
Per Student Place                                             Use Factorl'
Area_       Site                                                                                                      Number of       Teacher:
Type of Facilities           Are2)  Development    Building   Furniture   Equipment             Total                              Laboratories  Weekly periods   Students
(in US$)       (in US$)   (in US$)    (in US$)          (in US$)              lassrooms   & Workshops        (one hour)!/   Ratio
- Primary Teacher Training College,
Garoua-Academic & Communal                 7.43          166          1,110       127          463       1,866-  ( 1,560 - 330)       79%          85%               36            1:20
Boarding                            7,40          178         1,191        107           -       1,476   ( 1,350 - 450)
- Demonstration General Secondary School,
Yaounde-Academic & Communal                4.31          101            503         82          93         779   ( 1,560 - 330)       78%           76%              36            1:20
- Lower Technical Secondary School
including a Teacher Training Section
Douala-Academic & Communal                 7.492/        114            757         78       1,994       2,943   ( 3,760 - 970)       75%           66%              40            1:20
1 :161!
- Upper Technical Secondarv School,
Garoca-Academic & Communal                 8.48          186          1,243        173         781       2,383   ( 3,760 - 970)       76%           65%              40            1:14
Boarding                            7.77          188          1,252        81           -        1,521   ( 1,350 - 450)
- Adult Vocational Training Center
Douala-Academic & Communal                10.25          163          1,085        119       1,361       2,728   ( 2,870 - 970)       73%           89%              40            1:21
Boarding                           10.10          223          1,487        89           -        1,799   ( 1,630 - 410)
Staff Housing/
- P.T.T,C., Garoua                              95       2,813         18,754         -            -      21,5675/ (20,700 - 6,600       -             -                 -            -
- Demonstration Secondary School,Yaounde        95       2,340         15,598         -            -      17,938   (20,700 - 6,600       -             -                 -            -
- Upper Technical Secondary School,Garoua    95          2,862         19,084         -            -      21,9465! (20,700 - 6,600       -             -                 -            -
- Adult Vocational Training Center,Douala    95          2,054         13,697         -            -      15,751   (20,700 - 6,600       -             -                 -            -
Notes:  1/  The number of weekly periods and the use factor concern only regular courses but not study hours, evening classes or any other extra curricular utilization of facilities,
2/ 50 teacher trainees use only classes and laboratories but not workshops in this school; 145 "3d year students" only use classes (7 hours a week), the remainder of the
schedule is in-plant practice: This reduces the "area per student" normally accepted for technical schools.
3/ In the teacher training section.
4/ Data referring to staff housing units.
5/ The costs per student place of the Primary Teacher Training College and the staff housing in Caroua exceed the corresponding costs in previously financed Bank projects
because of the prevailing high unit costs of construction in Cameroon and a 30% additional allowance for costly transportation of nearly all building materials into
the remote northern region.
Corresponding range in previous Bank or IDA projects.



CAMIIRPI'N - SPLINI) IDhUA.AIP. II.'..I
CLNJ I NPENCY AllOIUWANCI
- - 55 O  '00 5)       _
S     D 1 V1 DEPL.OPMENT       BU  LDl N(;                  FURN1I ISUMe               E 11. PM SN I             lI.R  I *SSIOAl SLiVICLi:           IILICAl ASSISIANCI.            PIRO.lECI UNII           TOTAL US SO 'S
lacal      Fzoreign       l.ocall     lorcio          Local<        Foreigo)     Local          lrorig5l ..ocal               Foreign            l.ocal          Foreign       local        FoITocal                   Foreign     TOTAL
PH) YIIYS I CAL INCLRASrS
(INIOSIIOSUN)                   1.          I OP           10            7 MO,          5%            57.           57            5/
b) PRICE INCREASP
(IESMAlAT ION)                  21 7        157.           245         177             257.          13Y           21/          18/0             237          17;                lIP              202           157          157
C) TOTAI.                            31'7        257            34/        27B             310%          2D'2           26/           237/             STY                              1(,            20?           157          1571.
TOTAl. PROUIIT  COSTl            2S7.3       355.4          1572.1    2171.1            194,5         194.5         2h9.5         2522.6            160.8       293.7               183.0           649.U         50.8;        190.0        2,677.2      S,38L.3        9,058.5
(W7'1fioUl CONTIN(:BNCIFS)
CON't LNGENCI ES
a) PIIYSICAI INTCEASE                 25.7        35.5           157.2      217-1             9.7           9.7          12.5          126.1           ----                             ---             ----          .---         ----            5         38.4           5935
1, Il'ICP  INCRUASE                   54.1        53.4           377.3      369.2            48.7          35.1          52.5          454.2            37.1         508                29.3           130.0          9.0          28.6         600.0      112L.3        1729.3
c) iPoTAl CONTINGENCIES               79.8        88.9           534.5       586.3           58.4          44.8          65.0          580.3            17.1         50.8               29.3            130.0          9.0          20.6        813.1       1509.7        0322.8
rOTAl. PKoJrcS cosr              337,1       444.3          2106.6      2757.4          252.9         239.3         314.5         3102.9            197.9       349.5              212.3            779.0         69.3         210.6       3u90.3        7001.0        IU8.3
(INCLUDINC CONTINGENCIEUS)
FORlIGN EXCILAN(E CMPONENNI'                    587.                       SET                            50i                        917                           6,5,                                78?                        767.



CAMEROON - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR                 1                      2                      3                        4                           5                          6
IMPLEMENTATION
QUARTERS      1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
I. Civil Works
A.
1.P.T.T.C. Garoua                       r*  **i+  + *  ** *4^++  *$$  $==  xxx  xxx   xxx  xxx   xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv
2. P.T.T.C. N'Kongsamba               #*   *++  *** *  *++  *      $$  $=   xxx  xxx   xxv  vvv   vvv   vvv   vv
3. P.T.T.C. Kumba                      #**  *++  ***  **+  +**   $5  $==  xxx  xxx   xxx  xxv   vvv   vvv   vvv   vv
4. E,N.S, Yaounde                      #**  ***  +**  ***  *++  *$$  $==  xxx  xxx   xxx  xxx   xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv
5. Lycee Yaounde                      #**  *    +**  ***  -*+  *$$  $=             xxx   xxx    xxx  xxx    xxx   xxx   vv w v w v w   Vv
B.
1. Lycee Technique Caroua             #S#*  *    +     **   *++  *$$  $=   xxs  xxx   xxx  xxx   xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv
2. C.E.T,1' Douala                    ##* ^   +**  ***  '++  *$$  $    xxx  xxx   xxx  xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv
3. C.E.S.P.E. Douala                   ##*  **+  +**  ***  *++  *$$  $=   xxx  xxx   xxx  xxx   xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv
II, Furniture                                                                              AAA  AAA   AAA   AAA   AAA
III.Equipment                                                                              AAA  AAA   AAA   AAA   AAA
IV. Technical Assistance                      000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000   000  000   000   oon   000   000   000   000   non   coo   ooo   000   000   000   000
(including Pre-investment
studies)
V.  Project Unit                         ooo  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000   000  000   000   000    ooo   000   000
# Survey of sites; * Design and construction document phase; + Review of design and construction documents;
$ Tendering of bids; = Review of bids and award of contracts; x Construction phase: v Guarantee phase;
A Procurement and installation;  o Employment of technical assistance specialists and Project Unit officers
1/ Including a Workship Teacher Training Section



ANNEX 10
CAMERON - SECOND XUJCATION PROJEC
1~b 1NATJJ UHBlIJUL.6 Ur' UJOUnO.MMMIib
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated        Undisbursed
Quarter        Disbursements         Disbursements         Balance
1*               -                      -                 900
2               001                    001                899
3               008                    009                891
4               008                    017                883
5               oo8                    025                875
6               010                    035                865
7               013                    o48                852
8               003                    o51                849
9               o43                    o94                806
10               058                    152                748
11               107                    259                641
12               144                    403                497
13               153                    556                344
14               169                    725                175
15               o88                    813                087
16               009                    822                078
17               012                    834                o66
18               013                    847                053
19               023                    870                0j0
20               007                    877                023
21               007                    884                016
22               004                "   885                012
23               oo4                    892                008
24               oo4                    896                004
25               004                    900                000
* Starting from the Date of Effectiveness



CAMEROON
ORGANIZATION OF FEDERAL & FEDERATED EDUCATIONAL AUTHORITIES
Federal Ministry of Education, Culture & Vocational Iraming
WEST CAMEROON                                                                                                        EAST CAMEROON
Secr.tarv of  S,,.c,rta'y of  Federal                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecretary of  S-cetary of        Secretary of
State for                    State for                            Ministry                                                                                  State for                      State for            State for
PrimarY                       Rural                               Cuttural                                                                                  Primary                         Rwlal               Animal
Education                  Development                             Delegate                                                                                 Education                    Development           Husbandry
Agricultural       General &                                                                       HihrPiayAgricultural                                                            Veterinary
Primary           Teacher            Secondary          Technical          Secondary             ESTechnicalHgePrmy                                                            Teacher             Secondary            Secondary
Schools           Training           Education          Secondar            School               AnxScday                              Education            Schools           Training              Schools               S,,hool
W.arid Bank -6489(R)          -






CAMEROON-STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
LOWER                                     UPPER
EAST  CAMEROON                                                              Rural Craft Sections
Domestic Science Sections
=            2
Junior Primary Teacher Tra ling
AgricIltrce,Veter nary SkllIed Agents
HOME ECONOMICS SCHOOLS                       Traning 
< I    s-ri.m ary T-aher T-minig                                 ( 9es 
GENERAL & TECHNICAL                        G.. Grtn1a, led _trialI &Comril crec
2  3  4  5  6        7              1         2          3          4                                                   HIGHER~~~~~~~~~  FCULY    NSTITUENOC ELTE  EDCN
-L-e W + t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~des)
VOCATIONAL                                 SCHOOLS                          (du11 2F45
T   T        T            ~~~~Legal Cle-ica St.d,es    i     FACULTY OF LAWVV"cns"
(capeeg)   ('license')  (ced=s)
WEST  CAMEROON                                                                   Elementary Primary          H,gh., ElementarV
Teacher T-.,niq        Primary Teacher Training                                            FACULTY OF THEOLOGY
1rimary   Veacher TERINARYHeneral CENTEducationRSCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT    HIGHER INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
=                 i        ~~~~~C, A.S.T       SCH O OL O F J OU R N;ALZIS
INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL COL l*} +34('ies"
HIGHER INSTITUTE OF HLALTH & MEDICINE
(capceg) (''license") (capes)
_{9 ~~VETERINARY CENTER rtr
I
~~~~___ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                                   LOWVER          /                  LtP P E     R  ,,/ 
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                                          SECONDARY EDUCATION                                                        HIGHER EDUCATION
*  Entrance  xm tln
*  Leaeing Enaminations
Wel,d 5B-k --6437i2 R)






CAMEROON
ORGANIZATION OF THE FEDERAL MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
CULTURE & VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Minister
Advisory Councils
Higher Council of National Education                                                                                                                                                                _
Council of Higher Education          1111111                                                                                                                   Services_
Council of General Secondary Education    I
Council of Technical Education                                                                                                                                                                     Westion
& Vocational Training                                                                                                                                                                         W
-   -   -_                         - - - - - - - - - - - - --
Scholarships &
ITrainin  Division
Directorate
Directorate                                     Directorate                       General                               Directorate                                  Directorate
General                                        Technical                       Secondary                                 Higher                                      Cultural
Administration                                    Education                        Education                               Education                                     Affairs
I     
Federal
Private                                               University
Education
Division
Board of
Administrators
Examinations                                           Vice Chancelor
Division ofDivision of                                                            Division                                                                                                      Clua  rtcin
ADivision of              Planning,              Health                                                                                                                       Cultural Extension             Education &
Administration &      Docu mentation &           Division                                                                                          etary General                   Division                   Research
Guidance (1)                                                                                                                                                                          Dvso
Dvision of
Pedagogy
()The first IDA Project Implementation Unit is a part of this division.                                          World Bank-6488(2R)         I
(1 )The first IDA Project Implementation Unit is a part of this division~                                                                                                                World Bank-6488(2R)






CAM EROON
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1970-71
FEMALE
ENROLLMENTS ENROLLMENT
%of         AS %OF         AS % OF
EAST CAMEROON                                             EST CAMEROON              EDUCATION       AGE GROUP        TOTAL
GRADE                                                                                                                           ENROLLMENT   (ESTIMATED)  ENROLLMENT
HIGHER                                                                                     2,u0.3%                                                  0.3%           7.8%
EDUCATION
SECONDARY
S7                                                                                   1,740
S6                                                                                   2,87
S5 ~   ~    ~     0000           1000             0,0             50,000             105,0
S4                                                                                   10    1,11 0W7.4%                                            8%            28.5l1(
S3                                                                                   5          5
S2                                                                              1,6
PRIMARY
P7
P6
P5
P4                     90                                           129,30                     ~~~~~      ~    ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~92,3%  74%  40.6%
P3                                             1460~VX13
P21340                                                                  R/ V11111fU
p 1               203,800      /       /          
KIND ER GARTEN
200,000         150,000         100,000          50,000             0             50,000
World Bankr-6481(R)






CAMEROON                                                                                  -
EDUCATION PROJECTSE-
ROADS                                   AIRPORTS                                                                 'ks r-                         en
Paved trunk roads              *        International                                                                                    ToSudan 
Unpaved trunk roads            A        National                                                                       P'Fo  l.ortnMy
Other main roads                                      Rw              RJjers  -                    __'                 PFirtFoure'uP.
RAILROADS                                                                                                      /      / 
-i-ii---ExCisting lines          -    -.- International boundaries                          To Maidugwi              '    '        \
ta..................  tte boundary              T                                   x   /
- -i-n -.--e  Under consrtruction        3          Notional capital                                 N J.' t
FIRST PRW3ECT SCHOOLS                                                             y      ,-
}'-<Morr            os  aE      
I PitMAEY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, NtGOUMOU        14 LYCEE, SANGMELIMA                                          /   '                                    EPUBLI
2 PItMARY TEACHEt TRAINING COLLEGE, BAFOUSSAM        15 LYCEE, EnEA                                            J>0  s\I
3 PRItARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, BERTOVA         16 LYCEE, BERTOtIA                                                                         S
4 ECOLE NORMALE SUPERIEURE, YAOUNDE                  17 LYCEE, GAROUA                                          I           A ~                  '                         TO      o
S C.E.G., FORT.FDUREAU                               18 COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE &TECHNOLOGY,                                  Moroua    N            /             FertArctemlt
6 CE.E., MOKOLO                                          EAMBILI lWC.)                                       j r                                7
7 C.E.O, YAGOUA                                      19 COLLEGE Of ARTS & SCIENCE,K tUMBA B.C.1                                                                 O
8 CEOG YOXADOUMA                                    20 LACEE TECtINIOUE, DOUALA                             t    Magadc i-                        't  \\        0  F
9 C.E.. BATDURt                                     21 C.E.T., EDEA                                    -./. 5'                          . e       I 
10 C.E.G., AKONOLINGA                                22 C.ET., EBOLOWA                                             F .__,---                      -
I1 C.E.G. NANA-EEOKO                                 23 TECHNICAL SCHOOL, KUMBA tW.C.I                             Figu
12 CE.G, ESEKA                                      24 E.F.S.A., NKOL-BlSQRIN                                     Fi' uil                                                Lol
13 LYCEOGRALA                                                                        Tn Niger River '-           >         '.                                C  HA  ATN
tpd Ehum                                  ,      s_      o\
SECOND PROJECT INSTITUTIONS                                            a\_        r        6        _                  Fort Aecthmrnboult
1 IPRtMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, GAROUA                                               (                    ,9
2 PRIMARY TEAC1NER TRAINING COLLEGE, RKONGSANRA MA
3 PRiMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, KIIMEA                                               ,
4 ECOLE NORMALE SUPERIEURE, YAOUNOE.
5 DEMONSTRATION LYCEE, YAOUNDE
6 LYCEE TECHNIiUE, GARtUA -A
7 C.E.T. Wniiint Tnmis T.Isn  Smj,r DOGUALA
8 ADULT YDCATIONAL GUIDANCE & TRAINING CENTER, DOUALA
O         50       100        150       200       250       300 Kilometers  j
0              50              100              150             200Mils                                         ,  Ngooundere/
N I G E R I A 
/  ~              ~               J                                    /                                    I   t   
oOr~~~~~~ Ax -._/ f FDI~~~~ere ,  m
tuEnugu                           ' Barrbilii J                                                                                                          CENTRAL
;~~    ~   %  2  ,4Fo~umban                                                  t                     0t  
/ Ct / ~~Dschan?  r-,--/  S)hFRICAN
To Coabor;      0<  :9    t8fussam                                                                                                                          A  Ff  R Ij      
!    S   V   f   'i                                                  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~
_5tZl /       j  v~~~~~Nkongsamba ts                  8faBe a                                              o1 aREP1    
Bafia  ~Betoa3REPUBLIC
Ku,;t\''tS    l9mb2a3,)yaba ssl                                 er       N.n;' X a   -                      ~'_ o1ABatouri'K.
,A:24           oAbonolingako
Eddo
Esnko,/   >   8   >    Mbolmayo                                   \                       Yokadoumo  
8
GUL F             I(nbtf           "t           <    S            %%14 ,
"&  --            - -             ~~~~~Sangm6ilima
,..~ ~'5-Ebolowo                                                    The boundaries shown  on th     , map do lot
,iply  cndo-sement or a.ceptance bv the
GUINCA                                                                                     World Bank and its affiliates
Compo                        i
A  F fl R I 0 A",                                                                       _     _         *)8 ,                                                              _
REPUBLIC OF                  i          REPUBLIC OF
EQUATRIAL                                  GABON                                 REPUBLIC OF CONGO    '.,
LZ1V r                                            GABONYIt                    > 
MARCH_   1972_IBRD__Lbre ville
MARCH  1972                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD  3843



