Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        E
Report No. 4900
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 320-CM
January 20, 1984
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
CAPE        =   Junior Primary Teacher Diploma/Certificat d'Aptitude
P6dagogique Elementaire
CENAFOP     =   Adult Vocational Training Center/Centre National de Formation
Professionnelle
CEPER       =   Ministry of Education's printing operation/Centre d'Edition
pour l'Enseignement et la Recherche
CET         =   Technical Lower Secondary School/Collage d'Enseignement
Technique
CTA         =   Chief Technical Advisor/Conseiller Technique Principal
ENI         =   Primary Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
ENIA            Junior Primary Training College/Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
Adjoints
ENS         =   Secondary Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Superieure
ENSET       =   Technical Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Superieure de
1'Enseignement Technique
FAC         =   French Bilateral Aid Agency/Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
LA          =   Demonstration Upper Secondary School/Lycee d'Application
LT          =   Technical Upper Secondary School/Lyc6e Technique
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CAMEROON
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 320-CM)
COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface         .............................................          i
Basic Data    ....................,,,,,,,,,,,,,                       ii
Highlights................. ... ::                                     v
I.         SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS...........................                 1
II.        PROJECT BACKGROUND. ...................................                3
Socioeconomic Context. ................................                3
Educational Setting. .3...............              ..     ....        3
Project Conception and Justification.                                  4
Project Description. .. .....n. .................. ......              5
Changes in the Project. ......c.... ..     ..     ....... . ...        8
III.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................                 9
Project Management ......................... * .........               9
Architectural and Engineering Services................                10
Civil Wors..........rks...........                                    10
Furniture and Equipment .. ... .............        ...........       11
Technical Assistance ............ . ....................              12
Implementation Delays......... l... .....................             13
Compliance with Special Credit Agreement Covenants....                13
Lesos..........................                                       14
IV.        PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING...........................               15
Costs......................*..........................                15
Financing.......................                                      16
V.         EDUCATIONAL OUTCOME. ..................................               17
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (ENI-ENIAs)                         17
Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS) and the
Bilingual High School (Lycee Bilingue), Yaounde                    20
Upper Secondary Technical School (Lycee Technique),
Garoua ......   . . .  . . ..  . .  . .  . . ...  . .  . . .       21
Adult Vocational Training Center (CENAFOP), Douala....                22
Preinvestment Studites.d     i...    ....   .   ... . .. . . ...      25
VI.        IDA PERFORMANCE         ...........            ..   .........         26



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES                                                                      Page No.
I    Comparison of Objectives, Means and Outcomes ....         ............. 27
2    Structure of the Education System     ...........................    28
3    Enrollments for Different Levels of Schooling (1970-81) ......       29
4    Comparison of Originally Required Premises and Actually Provided
Provided Premises     ........................................     30
5    Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actually Provided Gross
Construction Areas    ........................................     38
6    Comparison of Enrollments Originally Planned For, Enrollments
Actually Made Available, and Actual Enrollments ....       ........  39
7     Implementation Schedule     ....................................    40
8     Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants     ....      .............. 41
9    Comparison of Originally Estimated Costs and Actual Costs ....       43
10   Comparison of Credit Allocation and Actual Disbursement per
Category   ...........      .......................................  44
11 Schedule of Disbursements .46
12   Capacity and Enrollments at Project Teacher Training Colleges.       47
13   Lycee Bilingue, Yaounde:    Enrollments (1977/78-1981/82) .......    48
14   Lycee Technique, Garoua:    Enrollments by Section (1978/79-
1982/83) ..............      .....................................  49
15   Lycee Technique, Garoua:    Examination Results by Section
(1978/79-1981/82) ..........................................       50
16   Lycee Technique, Garoua:    Evolution of Teaching Staff since
1977   .    .....................................................  51
17   CENAFOP:   Calculation of Training Fees     ...................... 52
18 CENAFOP: Job Analyses .53
19 CENAFOP: Instructional Modules .54



PREFACE
This completion report compares the objectives of the Second
Education Project in Cameroon (Cr. 320-CM) with its results. The emphasis is
on the lessons learned in project design and implementation, which could be
applied to future education projects in Cameroon and elsewhere. The Credit
financed formal and non-formal educational components, emphasizing
improvements in the quality of primary and secondary teacher training, as well
as in vocational and technical training. The project was conceived to follow
up on the First Education Project.
There were three main sources of information for this report:
(a) IDA documents. These were correspondence files, supervision reports
and the Appraisal Report.
(b) Government documents. These included progress reports and papers on
vocational training and educational reform.
(c)  Persons consulted.  We held discussions with Bank staff involved with
the project, Government officials and employer representatives.
Participation of the Government in the preparation of this report
included a "Rapport de synthese" (March 1979), sets of data for each school,
and a detailed financial report. The Government showed unlimited dedication
and patience in answering the completion mission's questions and facilitating
school visits.
The Operations Evaluation Department decided not to audit the project
and sent the final draft of the Project Completion Report to the Government in
October 1983 for comment. No reply has been received from the Government.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
CAMEROON SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - (CREDIT 320-CM)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Expectation     Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                11.3               12.3
overrun (%                                                       8:8 ±
Credit Amount (tUS$ million)                     9.0                9.0
Disbursed                                       -                8.2
Cancelled                                       -                0.8
Repaid to                                       -                  -
Outstanding to                                  -                  -
Date Physical Components Completed          03/31/76           06/30/82
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)          100%               100%
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                     -               180%
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                           -
Financial Performance
Institutional Performance                       Good               Fair
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Appraisal Estimate       0.4    1.5    7.3    8.5    8.9    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0     9.0
Actual                     -      -      -    3.0    4.5    5.4    6.3    6.5    7.3    8.2
Actual as % of
Appraisal                -      -      -     35     51     60     70     72     81      91
1/   Project was scaled down (paras. 4.01 - 4.02).






- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                     Actual or
Plan           Revisions     Current Est.
First Mention in Files or
Timetable                                          -            1969
Government's Application             -               -            1970
Negotiations                     05/08/72            -         05/09/82
Board Approval                   06/20/72            -        06/20/72
Credit Agreement Date            06/28/72            -        06/28/72
Effectiveness Date               10/02/72       02/27/73      02/27/73
Closing Date                     06/30/79       06/30/82       11/26/82
Borrower:                        United Republic of Cameroon
Executing Agency:                Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year of
Borrower:                     July 1 - June 30
Follow-on Project Name:          Third Education Project
Loan Number:                  1245T-CM
Amount (US$):                 17.0 million
Loan Agreement Date:          July 2, 1976
MISSION DATA
Sent      Month,    No. of   No. of       No. of     Date of
Year     Weeks    Persons    Staffweeks    Report
Identification      Unesco      11/70     4.0        4         16.0         04/71
Reconnaissance     Unesco/IDA   06/71     1.2        2          2.4       07/07/71
Reconnaissance        IDA       10/71     1.0        1          1.0       11/12/71
Preparation          Unesco   10-11/71    6.2        3          18.6
Appraisal             IDA     11-12/71    4.16       5         20.8       06/06/72
Total                                                       58.8
Supervision
1 ARC                IDA       06/73     0.7        1          0.7       08/21773
2 ED                 IDA       09/73     0.7        1          0.7       10/10/73
3 ARC                IDA       02/74     0.7        1          0.7       03/27/74
4 ARC                IDA     10-11/74    0.5        1          0.5       12/17/74
5 ACR/EGR            IDA       07/75     0.3        2          0.6       08/14/75
6 ARC                IDA       09/75     0.6        1          0.6       10/29/75
7  TE                IDA       11/75     0.5        1          0.5       12/15/75
8  ARC/EDG/Cons.     IDA     09-10/76    0.8        3          2.4       11/16/76
9 ARC                IDA       02/77     1.2        1          1.2       03/25/77
10 ARC                IDA       07/77     0.9        1          0.9       10/13/77






- iv -
Supervision (cont'd)
Sent      Month,    No. of    No. of       No. of     Date of
By        Year     Weeks    Persons     Staffweeks   Report
11  EGR/TE            IDA       02/78      0.5        2           1.0       04/28/78
12  TE/EGR/ILO/EDG    IDA       07/78      0.25       4           1.0       07/31/78
13  ECN/TE/ARC        IDA       10/78      0.26       3          0.8        12/06/78
14 TE/GE/ARC          IDA       06/79      0.45       2          0.9        09/14/79
15  TE/CHF            IDA      10-11/79    0.3        2          0.6        11/14/79
16  TE/ARC            IDA       03/80      0.4        2           0.8       04/16/80
17  ECN/ARC/EDG/ED    IDA       07/80      0.2        4           0.8       10/17/80
18  ARC/ED            IDA       11/80      0.35       2          0.7        12/04/80
19  ED/TE/ARC         IDA      01-02/81    0.6        3           1.8       03/02/81
20  TE/ED/ARC/ECN     IDA      04-05/81    0.95       4           3.8       05/29/81
21  ED/ARC            IDA       11/81      0.3        2           0.6       01/08/82
22  ARC/CHF           IDA      03-04/82    0.75       2           1.5       04/20/82
Completion            IDA       10/82      2.0        3           6.0
Total                                                         29.1
Supervisions 1 through 8 together with Education I
Supervision 9 with Completion of Education I
Supervisions 10, 12-14, 16, 21-22 with supervision Education III
Supervision 11 with Supervision Education III and sector work
Supervisions 15, 17-19 with Supervision Education III and Identification
fourth project.
KEY:
ARC - Architect          ED - Educator            EGR - Engineer
EDG - Agric. Educator    TE - Technical Educator GE - General Educator
CHF - Division Chief     Cons.- Consultant
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)             CFA Francs (CFAF)
Year:                                       Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average (1971):               US$1 = CFAF 255.8
Intervening Years Average (1972-82):         US$1 = CFAF 251.7
Completion Year Average (1982):              US$1   CFAF 317.1






- v -
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       A Credit of US$9.0 million equivalent was signed in June 1972 to help
finance an education project in Cameroon. Total project costs were estimated
at US$11.3 million. The Credit was provided to finance:
a)   Design, construction, extension, conversion and/or rehabilitation,
furnishing and equipping of three primary teacher training colleges
(para. 2.10 (a) (i));
b)   Design, construction, furniture and equipment for the conversion and
extension of one general secondary teacher and primary inspector
training college (para. 2.10 (a) (ii));
c)   Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of one upper general
secondary school to serve as a practice school for upper general
secondary teacher trainees, and as a demonstration school for reforms
in the general secondary education structure and curricula (para.
2.10 (a) (iii));
d)   Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of two technical
secondary schools, one for lower technical secondary students,
including an industrial workshop teacher training section, and the
other for upper technical secondary students (para. 2.10 (b) (i));
e)   Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of one adult
vocational guidance and training center. This center would generate
an adequate output of semi-skilled and skilled workers and clerks, as
well as mid-level technicians, through in-service training (para.
2.10 (b) (ii));
f)   Provision of specialist services and of fellowships for:    (i)
carrying out a preinvestment study of agricultural education and
rural training in order to determine the needs of these subsectors;
(ii) carrying out a preinvestment study of technical and vocational
education requirements of the northern region, including a
feasibility study of a lower technical secondary school at
Ngaoundere; and (iii) the organization and implementation of training
programs (para. 2.10 (c) (i)); and
g)   Provision of specialist services and furniture and equipment for the
Project Unit.
The Credit Account was closed on June 30, 1982, three years after the original
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 (para. 3.21).
2.       The project experienced serious delays (about six years) in the
implementation of the adult vocational training component (paras. 3.06, 3.07,
3.09, 3.11, 3.12, 5.25 and 5.26). The lower technical secondary school was
transferred to the Third Education Project (paras. 2.11 and 4.01). The other
components were fully implemented with delays of one to three years. Total
project costs were above the appraisal estimate despite the transfer of one
component to the subsequent project (para. 4.02).



- vi -
3.       The table in Annex 1 presents an overview of the project by comparing
its objectives at appraisal with the means of achieving them and the actual
outcomes, which could be summarized as follows:
(a)    the three primary teacher training colleges (para. 5.13), and the
general secondary teacher training college and upper general
secondary school (para. 5.17) are functioning well, although, since
the expected educational reform has not yet been implemented, they
have not met the project's initial objectives;
(b)    the upper secondary technical school is operating satisfactorily,
although not quite as intended at appraisal, owing to insufficient
local industrial development (para. 5.24);
(c)    the adult vocational training center is in operation, despite
problems stemming from restricted space and the early departure of
technical assistance (para. 5.34); and
(d)    the preinvestment studies have been satisfactorily carried out and
used to define components of the subsequent project (paras. 5.36
and 5.37).
4.         The main lessons drawn from this project are:
(a)    the project's link with the educational reform:   The project was
conceived as an integral part of an educational reform that has yet
to be implemented. The report emphasizes the need to make an
effort to realistically appraise the prospects of implementation of
educational reforms, taking account of political forces and the
built-in inertia of long-existing institutions (paras. 5.13 (a) and
5-17);
(b)    the importance of issues of administrative responsibility for
project institutions: The report emphasizes the need to settle
issues of legal status and administrative responsibility early,
preferably prior to appraisal, to avoid implementation delays
(paras. 5.26 and 5.35 (a));
(c)    the need for strong project management:   The report emphasizes the
need to devote adequate human and financial resources to project
management (paras. 3.04, 3.05 and 3.23); and
(d)    the need for timely recruitment of qualified technical assistance:
The report reviews the implications of delays in the recruitment of
technical assistance and discusses the role of a "Chief Technical
Adviser" (paras. 3.19 and 3.28).



- 1 -
I. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Summary
1.01       The Second Education Project in Cameroon (Cr. 320-CM) had a set of formal
educational components which included three Primary Teacher Training Colleges,
a Secondary Teacher Training College, an Upper Secondary General School, and
an Upper Secondary Technical School. All these were completed and in
operation from about one to three years after the appraisal estimates; the
non-formal component (an Adult Vocational Training Center in Douala) was
completed about five years after appraisal and began operations about one year
later. There were also two pre-investment studies that were completed about
one year behind schedule. Total project costs were US$1 million above
appraisal estimates despite the transfer of one component to the Third
Education Project. Delays took place at all stages of project implementation
(Chapter III) and can be attributed partly to weak project management and
partly to both IDA and governmental inexperience in non-formal vocational
training.
1.02       Annex 1 presents in tabular form the project's objectives, the means of
achieving them and the outcomes at completion. The objectives of the project
were to: (a) improve the quality of primary and secondary education in the
context of educational reform and expansion; (b) develop technical and
vocational training to fill the needs of the industrial sector in general and
to help develop the northern region in particular; and (c) explore investment
prospects in agricultural and rural training.
1.03       All of these objectives were maintained although, for reasons lying
outside the project, the expected educational reforms have yet to be
instituted. This means that the institutions designed and expected to operate
for the reforms have been integrated (with no difficulties) into the existing
educational structures. They are well-run institutions and doing a credible
and needed job in the areas of secondary and technical education and teacher
training.
Recommendations
1.04       Project Formulation
(a)    When designing a project that is supposed to be a part of, or to
service, an educational reform that has yet to be implemented,
particular effort should be made to realistically appraise the
prospects of implementation. (Reforms are policy matters
determined by forces both inside and outside the educational
system.) Such an appraisal should include information from as
broad a spectrum of policy makers as is possible. In this context,
it should be remembered that there is built-in inertia in
institutions that have been in operation over a long period of
time. Therefore, we should understand that it is likely that
innovative aspects of project components within the formal system
will yield to the pressures of habit and tradition and, possibly,
be underused or not maintained as well as intended at appraisal
(paras. 5.13 and 5.15 - 5.17);



- 2 -
(b)    Particular consideration should be given to matters of
administrative authority or domain, especially for project
components that are outside the formal educational system.
Whenever possible, these matters should be settled prior to
appraisal (para. 5.35);
(c)    When a project component provides for increased enrollments of
students receiving scholarships, consideration should be given to
the Government's ability and/or willingness to make the necessary
budgetary provisions (paras. 5.13, 5.15).
1.05       Project Management.   More attention and resources should be devoted
to strengthening the Project Implementation Unit (para. 3.23).
1.06       Technical Assistance.   Careful consideration should be given to the
need for a chief technical advisor (CTA) especially when his role is to
coordinate rather than to participate in substantive activities. This would
be even more the case when the chief technical advisor is not a technician and
when his presence preceeds that of the other experts and that of the
component's operation. Greater care should be taken in selecting CTAs
including, perhaps, interviews with the concerned parties (paras. 3.19, 3.28).
1.07       Project Supervision.  Projects with educational objectives should
be closely supervised by educators who will look beyond the technical aspects
of construction and financing. This could possibly increase the likelihood of
the educational objectives being met (para. 6.04). Doing so would also be
particularly useful to the Bank in terms of monitoring expected project-
related developments in the educational system.



II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socioeconomic Context
2.01     At the time of the appraisal of the Second Education Project (1971),
there was particular concern for regional disparities. Disparities were quite
obvious, with the largest and most modern commercial and industrial
establishments being concentrated in the coastal region of east Cameroon,
particularly around the port of Douala. Cameroonian workers represented the
large majority of skilled workers, but expatriates still filled a large number
of posts at professional (85%) and sub-professional (46%) levels. Public
services accounted for about 12% of GDP and employed 30% of the wage earners.
2.02     The Government's priority, since 1960, was to double GDP per capita
by 1980. The third five-year development plan for 1971-76 reflected a
continuation of the Government's effort to meet this objective. While the
thrust of development was to continue in the industrial and commercial
sectors, the Government's strategy was also aimed at reducing regional income
and growth disparities. It was to do this by emphasizing programs that would
stimulate the dormant secondary sector of the northern region and improve
rural living standards generally.
Educational Setting
2.03     The Cameroonian system of general education (as it is now and was in
1971), follows the English pattern in the northwest and southwest provinces
(Anglophone Cameroon) and the French pattern in the five other provinces
(Francophone Cameroon). (See Annex 2.) The structure in Anglophone Cameroon
consists of seven years of primary school and a secondary program divided into
a five-year lower cycle and a two-year upper cycle. In Francophone Cameroon,
a 6 + 4 + 3 system prevails. Technical education is also provided at the
lower secondary level in both systems and at the upper secondary level in
Francophone Cameroon. The Ministry of National Education is responsible for
all levels of the formal education system, including technical and university
study. In 1971, there was a Ministry of Education, Culture and Vocational
Training. Now, industrial and commercial vocational training and upgrading
centers are the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor. Agricultural
training is offered in secondary and post-secondary schools under the
authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as in post-secondary schools
under the authority of the Ministry of Education.
2.04     Since Cameroon's independence in 1960, considerable progress has been
made in expanding educational opportunities: enrollments have steadily
increased at all levels (see Annex 3), a university has been built, and some
opportunities for professional training have been provided. In 1969-70, the
Government was spending about 20% of its recurrent budget on education (this
is now about 22%), a figure which is not excessive by West African standards,
but salary expenditures are taking an increasing share of the education
budget. The major problems to confront the educational system at the time the
project was identified were:
(a) the implementation of a unified educational system in both linguistic
regions;



- 4 -
(b) uncontrolled growth in enrollments which outpaced provision of
facilities and qualified teachers, thus adversely affecting the
quality of education;
(c) the weakness of key educational institutions;
(d) the absence of linkages between the education system and the
industrial sector to ensure a balance between manpower supplies and
demands; and
(e) geographically skewed access to education.
2.05     When this project was appraised, the Bank expected that a reform
of primary and secondary edu9ation would be implemented that would harmonize
the two educational systemsl! in terms of structure and curriculum. The
reform was to establish a uniform structure of six years for all primary
schools in both regions.  In addition to having a uniform curriculum in the
two regions, the reformed curriculum was to be based on knowledge of the local
environment and practical applications, including agricultural and practical
subjects.  It was also to use semi-programmed teaching techniques aimed
primarily at the development of children's creativity and cognitive
acquisition. Primary teacher training was to be reorganized in view of the
new curricula and focus on the acquisition of experimental teaching techniques
adapted to the new teaching materials. This training was intended to make
teachers into village leaders and was to include community development, school
guidance and administrative techniques. At the secondary level, the reform
was supposed to reinforce English and French language teaching as well as
introduce new curricula. While reform proposals had been prepared in detail
in the early 1970s and had Government approval in principle, implementation
has, in fact, not yet started. The differences still persist, not only in
terms of language but also with regard to structure, administrative
organization, and programs and examinations. Also, at the time of appraisal
the quality of education was adversely affected by acute shortages of primary
school textbooks and qualified teachers and inspectors, as well as by the
generally inadequate operating budget provided by the Government. This led to
a general underutilization of workshops and laboratories because of the
unavailability of necessary equipment and materials. These problems were
exacerbated by the fact that the Ministry of Education and other ministries
had few qualified and experienced administrators among their staffs, and
consequently lacked the organization and administrative capacities and
technical know-how to operate the system efficiently, let alone embark upon a
serious program of expansion or improvement.
Project Conception and Justification
2.06     The Second Education Project was designed to follow up on the
objectives of the First Education Project (Credit 161-CM, signed in September
1/   French-oriented in east Cameroon and British-oriented in west
Cameroon.



- 5 -
1979 and now completed) which provided US$10.5 million (later raised to
US$11.7 million) to assist the Government in expanding and upgrading (a)
primary teacher training, (b) general and technical secondary education, and
(c) post-secondary agricultural education. The project also provided
technical assistance for educational planning. The principal objective of the
First Project -- introduction of better quality and more practical education
in general secondary education -- was impeded by overcrowding, shortages of
appropriately qualified teachers, the absence of practical subjects in the
nationally prescribed curriculum and inadequate maintenance at project
schools. (See the Completion Report for the First Education Project.)
2.07     The Second Education Project was identified by a Unesco/IDA mission
that visited Cameroon in November 1970. This mission was followed by brief
IDA reconnaissance missions in June and October 1971. It was appraised in
November-December 1971. The identification mission surveyed the socioeconomic
and educational situations, identified projects in administration and
planning, teacher training, improvement of secondary school pedagogy and
curriculum, technical and vocational training, agricultural education and
rural training, and introduction of a common two-year academic program for all
secondary education students.
2.08     The project proposed by the appraisal mission was designed to build
on the achievements of the First Education Project, which was aimed at
expansion and reform of lower secondary education, expansion of technical
education, and primary and secondary teacher training. Particular emphasis
was placed on reinforcing the planned reform. While the First Education
Project was consistent with educational, social and economic development
objectives, three major developments occurred over the period of its
implementation:
(a)  educational enrollments quickly outgrew the labor market's absorptive
capacity for school leavers at the level of general lower secondary
education;
(b)  education expenditures grew faster than expected; and
(c)  the reform of secondary education was planned.
2.09     In this context, the Second Education Project was designed to:
(a)  improve the quality of primary and secondary education by the
development of teacher training and curriculum reform;
(b)  develop technical and vocational training in order to fill the needs
of the industrial sector; and
(c)  explore investment needs regarding agricultural education and rural
training on a national basis, and technical education and vocational
training for the northern region.
Project Description
2.10     The project was originally designed and appraised to consist of the
following:



- 6 -
(a) In order to improve the quality of primary and secondary education:
(i)     design, construction, extension, conversion and/or
rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of three Primary
Teacher Training colleges (Ecoles Normales d'Instituteurs
Adjoints -ENIA) in Garoua, Nkongsamba and Kumba. These
colleges -- including the one at Garoua, the first teacher
training institution in the north -- were expected to
provide a total of 280 additional student places. These,
together with the 630 student places financed by the First
IDA Education Project, were to represent 45% of the
system's capacity in 1976-77 and were supposed to have been
sufficient to meet the requirements for 1977-78. The
training would also be designed to prepare teachers to
become village leaders, and was therefore to include
courses in community development techniques, school
guidance and administration. Trainees were to be given
civil service status and were to be committed to a ten-year
teaching assignment upon admission. At the end of the
training year, they were to receive the CAPE or Grade II
diploma.
(ii)    design, construction, furniture and equipment for the
conversion and extension of the Secondary Teacher Training
College (Ecole Normale Superieure - ENS) in Yaounde. The
expansion of this college, the only secondary teacher
training institution in Cameroon in 1971, was to provide an
added yearly output of 150 by 1980, thereby raising total
and yearly output to 400 (280 lower secondary teachers, 100
upper secondary teachers and 20 primary inspectors). This
was deemed necessary because of the reform of secondary
education that was supposed to have been instituted in
1971.
(iii)   design, construction, furnishing and equipping of a
Demonstration Upper Secondary School (Lyc6e d'Application
-LA) in Yaound!&. This school was to replace the upper
secondary section of an overcrowded existing secondary
school and was expected to serve as a practice school for
upper general secondary teacher trainees, and as a
demonstration school for structure and curriculum reforms
that were supposed to be instituted. This Lycee was also
to be used for summer vacation seminars and upgrading
sessions organized by the ENS for an estimated 200 upper
secondary teachers annually.
(iv)    technical assistance for the Primary Teacher Training
Colleges to include six manyears of specialist services
with one specialist per college to assist the director in
applying the new training and retraining programs.



(b) In order to develop technical and vocational training:
(i) design, construction, furnishing and equipping of a Lower
Secondary Technical School (Coll6ge d'Enseignement
Technique - CET) in Douala and an Upper Secondary Technical
School (Lycee Technique - LT) in Garoua. The school in
Douala was to have a teacher training section for lower
secondary workshop teachers and the school in Garoua was to
be the only one of its kind in the northern region and was
to produce 90 technicians annually who would work in the
region or go on for higher technical studies. Both schools
were to be pilot schools in technical education for the
application of curricular reforms. They were also to train
approximately 2,000 semi-skilled workers in evening classes
and upgrading sessions during summer vacation.
(ii) design, construction, furnishing and equipping of an Adult
Vocational Guidance and Training Center (Centre National de
Formation Professionnelle - CENAFOP) in Douala. This was
to be a non-formal training center offering short training
and upgrading courses (one to five weeks) for about 2,000
employees per annum in all specializations represented in
local industry at the semi-skilled, skilled and technician
levels. A minimum of 1,500 were to attend training courses
organized by CENAFOP itself, and 500 were to attend special
courses organized at the specific request of firms through
the Chamber of Commerce. The Center was to be a public
institution, sponsored by the Ministry of Education,
Culture and Vocational Training and jointly managed by
public administration and private sector representatives.
The Lycee Technique in Garoua was to be the annex of the
CENAFOP in the northern region.
(iii)technical assistance including 11 manyears of specialist
services and five manyears of scholarships to further the
development of the project institutions.
(c) provision of specialist services for two preinvestment studies:
(i) a study of agricultural and rural training that was to
assist the Government in determining (a) the numbers and
types of trained agricultural personnel required by the
proposed agricultural and related development programs; and
(b) how the ineffective and uneconomically small formal and
non-formal training programs operated by the Government,
bilateral agencies, and private organizations might best be
organized to meet the needs listed above and the more
general needs of the rural population. Particular
attention was to be given to the training of country women
and special consideration given to the less developed
northern region and west Cameroon.
(ii) a study of technical education and vocational training
requirements in north Cameroon. The objective of this



- 8 -
study was to assist the Government in determining (a) the
needs of north Cameroon for various levels and types of
technically trained personnel; (b) the corresponding
required training institutions, equipment, and staff; and
(c) the feasibility of a Lower Secondary Technical School
in Ngaoundere.
Changes in the Project
2.11     The Lower Secondary Technical School (CET) in Douala was deleted from
this project and transferred to the Third Education Project (Loan 1245T-CM) in
order to avoid or minimize anticipated cost overruns. Also, the Closing Date
was postponed from June 30, 1979 to June 30, 1982.



-9-
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Xanagement
3.01     In accordance with Section 3.01(b) of the Credit Agreement, the
Project Unit established by the First Education Project (Credit 161-CM) was
maintained and expanded within the Ministry of Education, to be responsible
for overall management and coordination in the implementation of the project.
3.02     The Project Unit's location in the Ministry responsible for all
project components facilitated decision-making and pedagogical support; when
responsibility for one component was transferred to another Ministry (para.
5.30), communication problems resulted in increased delays. The Project
Unit's effectiveness has been hampered by the absence of formal status within
the Ministry. Hence, it has an uncertain hierarchical status despite the
upgraded "Direction" designation as recommended in the First Project PCR; this
uncertainty eventually proved to be detrimental both internally and
externally. In addition, the unit's physical installation, first in two
distant buildings, then in one building far from the Ministry, until it moved
into the Ministry's new buildings, in 1979, was also a problem.
3.03     The Project Unit's composition was appropriately reinforced (Credit
Agreement, Schedule 4) with an Architect/Deputy Director and a Procurement
Specialist financed under the Credit. An Educator would have been useful to
stimulate and coordinate pedagogical support from the Ministry's other
departments, as already mentioned in the First Project PCR. A Unesco
Technical Education Specialist, although originally not provided for in the
project, was financed for two years (July 1975-June 1977) under the Credit.
Installed in the Directorate of Technical Education, he was instrumental in
helping design all technical/vocational components.
3.04     The Project Unit's performance suffered from frequent turnovers,
delayed appointments, and inadequate incentives resulting in difficulties in
the recruitment of all the necessary motivated and competent local staff.
These staffing problems affected the leadership as well as the Unit's
administrative and technical efficiency, specific issues were:
(a)  Three Cameroonian Directors have been in charge.   The first left for
a World Bank assignment in March 1978. The second was not appointed
until August 1978, and, on IDA's recommendation, was replaced by a
more competent manager in October 1980.
(b)  Two Unesco Architects/Deputy Directors have been in place.   The first
was perceived by the Director as "a censor more than a collaborator,"
and was not replaced until nine months after his contract ended; the
second stayed from September 1974 to July 1979 and performed
satisfactorily. A Unesco Procurement Specialist was in place only
from August 1974 to August 1977. These two specialists were replaced
by their counterparts, who were expected to be capable of continuing
on their own. However persistent procurement and implementation
problems led IDA to recommend the recruitment of more experienced
specialists. No qualified local specialists were available or
interested, and the Minister of Education appointed an expatriate
Architect, financed by FAC, in October 1981. The recruitment of an
expatriate procurement specialist suffered from administrative delays
and did not materialize until late 1982, after the Credit's closing;
a qualified Counterpart is being sought for the Third and possible
fourth projects.



- 10 -
(c) Additional supporting staff included mainly local accounting staff,
who performed unevenly. On the recommendation of IDA, an expatriate
Accounting/Management Specialist was also recruited in late 1982; he
is training a counterpart and performing well.
(d) Recurrent cost funding was continuously inadequate.
3.05     Gains in management experience, although limited by the staffing
problems, have also resulted from the extension of the Project Unit's
responsibility to all externally financed investments in education, as
recommended in the First Project PCR. Decisions to further strengthen the
Project Unit's and Ministry's capacity for administration and management are
being prepared in the context of the possible fourth project.
Architectural and Engineering Services
3.06     Following an international prequalification and IDA's recommendation,
a joint venture of one local and one foreign architectural firm and one
foreign engineering firm was arranged. To avoid the one-year delay
experienced during the First Project in appointing architectural consultants,
a condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement was the finalization of
arrangements satisfactory to IDA for such appointment. In fact, finalizing
the three-part contract delayed effectiveness and the start of design work by
five months, and the start of design work for three schools was further
delayed by site selection problems (para. 3.09).
3.07     The design stage lasted from 22 to 28 months, instead of the planned
13 to 16 months, delayed by extensive revisions to reach acceptable
architectural standards and continuing coordination problems, despite the
appointment of a "resident representative" from the consulting group. The
schedules of accommodation prepared at appraisal (and revised in 1973 for the
Secondary Teacher Training College) have been followed (Annexes 4 and 5).
Designs have proved to be generally functional, economical and adapted to
local conditions, with notable exceptions for dormitories (wear and tear was
underestimated), kitchens (there was insufficient plumbing, storage and
tiling), some laboratories and workshops (inadequate plumbing and electrical
installation), and some site developments (poor drainage and access), for
which corrections have been or are being made.
3.08     The consulting architects' participation in site supervision has been
satisfactory, except at the Adult Vocational Training Center, at the end, when
construction, although 90% completed, lagged for more than two years until
completion.
Civil Works
3.09     Sites.  Of the eight project institutions, three were existing
schools toTbeWexpanded and/or converted on their sites. Of the five new
sites, two were selected on time before the recruitment of the architectural
consultants in February 1973, but agreement on the remaining three was not
reached until six months (for one) and 12 months later, since IDA objected to
the excessively distant locations of the sites initially proposed.



- 11 -
3.10     The Schedules of Accommodation an'~ Architects' Brief were prepared by
the Ministry of Education, with significant input from a Uresco Architect
within the School Building Unit of the Ministry. The schedule of
accommodation for the Secondary Teacher Training College was substantially
revised in 1973 (Annex 4 and 5). Users complain mainly about the lack or
insufficient size or number of assembly halls, staff housing, libraries,
certain workshops and laboratories, dormitories or student rooms, sports
grounds, landscaping and fencing; but it should be realized that facilities
were plax±ned 11 years ago, at a time when resources were more scare. Measures
to expand the facilities at the Adult Vocational Training Center could not be
implemented in time to be financed by the uncommitted Credit funds. Together
with the extension of the workshops at the Technical Upper Secondary School,
they are being considered for inclusion in the proposed fourth project.
Complementary works for sports grounds and fencing were financed by the
Credit, when arranged for in time.
3.11     Procurement through ICB after prequalification started from 14 to 29
months behind appraisal schedule, delayed by the finalization of bidding
documents, and lasted from eight to 14 months instead of the five months
planned on the basis of experience with the First Project. The costly issue
of the long process for contract finalization and approval has been brought to
the Government's attention several times. The centralization of procurement-
related decisions has not improved this situation. Serious procurement
difficulties occurred in respect of the civil works for the Secondary Teacher
Training College; IDA objected to the award of the contract to a bidder
proposing a construction period longer than the one required in bidding
documents, while the second lowest bidder offered a very close price and
complied to all requirements. The Government decided to maintain the award
and finance the contract entirely.
3.12     Construction work started from 17 to 36 months behind appraisal
schedule (paras. 3.06, 3.07, 3.09, 3.11) and lasted from 20% less to 150% more
than appraised. (Conversions at two schools took longer than expected because
the work was performed while the schools remained in use, and completion of
the Adult Vocational Training Center has lagged for more than two years due to
the need for complementary works and the deterioration of the financial
situation of the contractor, who later filed for bankruptcy). Except for the
school in Douala, construction time averaged about one year and a half.
Construction supervision was unevenly carried out by the regional
representation of the Ministry of Works (on a weekly basis), and by the
Project Unit, the architectural and engineering consultants, and the insurance
company (on a bimonthly basis). Buildings are structurally well-built and
sturdy; the main deficiencies are the electrical and/or plumbing installations
at some schools, which have been or are being repaired.
Furniture & Equipment
3.13     Lists and specifications were drawn up with considerable delays by
the Project Unit with pedagogical assistance from departments of other
Ministries, and, for the Adult Vocational Training Center, involvement of some
industry employers. Despite the presence in the Project Unit of a Procurement
Specialist (para. 3.04 (b)), and IDA's repeated reminders and recommendations
for appropriate arrangements and an action plan, the start-up was difficult
and delayed by one to two years, probably because construction itself was



- 12 -
delayed and, except for technical education components (para. 3.03),
pedagogical support was not easily obtained due to a scarcity of expertise and
uncertain curricula for some schools. Furniture prototypes were designed by
the Project Unit, with the assistance of staff of a Bank Group-financed
Forestry Project.
3.14     Throughout ICB (for the main contracts) and local procedures --
acceptable to IDA -- for small complementary contracts, procurement reflected
the delays caused by the slow progress of civil works implementation (Annex
7). Most furniture contracts were awarded to local firms. The main problems
included (a) the impossibility of obtaining maintenance and repair services
for some equipment; (b) insufficient and unsuitable science, audio-visual,
technical training, and kitchen equipment, in some cases; (c) low quality and
insufficient quantities of furniture delivered to the two Garoua schools (the
poor-quality furniture was replaced progressively, and new furniture was
bought to meet the schools' needs); and (d) delivery of part of the video and
science equipment for the Garoua schools to other schools (an inquiry is
underway). The great number of small contracts passed until the Credit
Closing reflects that, in answer to complaints from school heads and IDA
mission recommendations, efforts to correct deficiencies were made but were
unmethodical, due largely to a lack of qualified staff. The maintenance and
repair service problems have contributed to reinforcing the Government's
belief that bids should only be invited from suppliers with reliable local
representatives, as mentioned in the First Project PCR. The possible fourth
project would address the issue of technical education equipment through the
financing of construction, equipment and technical assistance to improve
practical teaching at several schools (including the one in Garoua) and to
establish an equipment purchasing center, which, later, would also handle
maintenance and repair.
3.15     Maintenance is handled essentially on an emergency basis and financed
out of the tight operating budget of schools. Every project school has a
maintenance staff of one or more; private contractors are also occasionally
hired for building repairs, and private suppliers are still the only resource,
when available and affordable, for equipment repairs. A manual for the
maintenance of sewer systems was prepared by the Project Unit and given to
school Directors partly as a result of the recommendations in the First
Project PCR. Most of the schools visited by the completion mission are being
poorly maintained.
Technical Assistance
3.16     Technical assistance was foreseen in the form of specialist services
for the execution of the two preinvestment studies, for each one of three
Primary Teacher Training Colleges, and for the Adult Vocational Training
Center (CENAFOP, Douala). Fellowships were also provided.
3.17     The only set of specialist services that was fully used were those
for the two preinvestment studies, which were conducted by two different
European consulting firms and completed in 1974. Both of these studies were
done well and useful in the preparation of the Third Project.



- 1 3 -
3.18     The six manyears that were provided for the organization and the
implementation of training programs for primary teachers were never used. The
Ministry of Education decided to carry out this activity with its own staff
after having experienced long delays in the recruitment of specialists, due to
lengthy administrative procedures. The fact that the expected reform of
primary education was not implemented and these specialists were expected to
work on problems of curriculum and instruction associated with the reform
reduced the need for technical assistance.
3.19     Of the 11 manyears foreseen for four vocational training specialists
for the CENAFOP, only about six manyears were used. These services suffered
long delays in the recruitment of three specialists for the substantive areas,
in spite of prodding from IDA and warnings about the approaching (revised)
Closing Date. The result was that the technical assistance to the CENAFOP
ended too soon and before the start of the training courses. Three manyears
went for the chief technical advisor (CTA) who did not have technical
expertise in the areas of the CENAFOP and who was ineffective. The CTA was
supposed to coordinate the activities of the three specialists who, however,
arrived in the country more than two years after him. The three specialists
performed well.
3.20     Fellowships were administered by the ILO for the 21 CENAFOP
instructors, each of whom spent three months (60 manmonths were planned) at
the ILO training center in Turin, in late 1981. All but one were at their
posts at the time of the mission.
Implementation Delays (Annex 7)
3.21     Delays occurred at all stages of project implementation (See
above). Postponement of the Closing Date by two years was first envisaged in
early 1977 because of delays in the technical assistance component. Except
for the CENAFOP and complementary procurement, the project was fully
implemented by the original Closing Date.
Compliance with Special Credit Agreement Covenants
3.22     Compliance with major and other important covenants is reviewed in
Annex 8). None of the four "Special" covenants (i.e., specific to the
project: section 2.02, 3.01(b), 4.04 and 4.05) have been fully complied with,
as commented upon in the Annex. However,
(a)  Section 2.02: the legal status and regulations of the Adult
Vocational Training Center (CENAFOP, Douala) have now been approved
by IDA and enacted;
(b)  Section 3.01(b):  the Project Unit has been reinforced under the
Third Education Project (Ln. 1245T-CM) and decisions to further
strengthen its capacity are being prepared in the context of the
possible fourth project (para. 3.05);
(c)  Section 4.04:  the issue of the effective appointment of the
governing board of the technical school in Garoua will be taken up
again in the context of the possible fourth project, which would
address the improvement of practical teaching in this school (para.
3.18); and



- 14 -
(d) Section 4.05: there is satisfactory progress towards full enrollment
at the Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS, Yaounde).
Lessons
3.23     Project Management.
(a) The liaison with all involved agencies should be carefully arranged
for (para. 3.02);
(b) The Project Unit should be an integrated, true and better staffed
"Direction" within the Ministry of Education (para. 3.02). This has
been made a prerequisite for the appraisal of the possible fourth
project;
(c) The Project Unit should include at least one educator (para. 3.03);
and
(d) Adequate resources should be available to the Project Unit and future
Loan Agreements should include provision for complete, suitable and
timely staffing.
3.24     Architectural and Engineering Services
(a) Except for very complex buildings, joint ventures of too many (and
distant) firms should be avoided (paras. 3.06 - 3.07);
(b) More attention should be paid to the suitability of technical design
(para. 3.07); and
(c) Contracts should include better incentives to secure continued
participation in site supervision (para. 3.08).
3.25     Civil Works.  The issue of the long process for contract finalization
and approval should be raised with the Government and stressed repeatedly.
3.26     Furniture and Equipment.   Because this is where many problems have
been encountered, special attention should be paid to preparation and
procurement arrangements, particularly in terms of staffing (para. 3.23).
3.27     Maintenance.   (a) Maintenance briefings and manuals should be
provided to school officials; (b) separate allocations for maintenance should
be provided in school budgets; and (c) deteriorations should be repaired as
soon as they occur.
3.28     Technical Assistance.   Extra care should be given to the recruitment
of chief technical advisors, whose competence, character and willingness to
work can determine the outcomes of project components.



- 15 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Costs
4.01     The appraised and actual project costs are summarized by disbursement
category and project component in Annex 9. In 1976, to avoid anticipated cost
overruns, the Technical Lower Secondary School (CET, Douala) was transferred
to the Third Education Project (Ln. 1245T-CM), except for the costs of site
survey, soil tests and architectural design.
4.02     Owing to this transfer, the actual total cost (US$12.3 million)
exceeds the appraised total cost (US$11.3 million) by only a 9% overrun.
However, the overrun goes up to 46% once the estimated cost of the civil
works, furniture and equipment for the transferred component is deducted,
bringing down the comparable appraisal estimate to US$8.4 million. This 46%
global cost overrun results from significant overruns for civil works (54%),
furniture and equipmWt (53%), and technical assistance (33%), all of which
are explained below -
(a) Civil Works: (i) in accordance with agreed post-appraisal revisions,
the actual gross construction area exceeds the estimate by 19%; and
(ii) construction started from 17 to 36 months behind appraisal
schedule, and, for some components, lasted longer than appraised
(para. 3.12). In 1977, a supervision mission brought the fact that
long delays between bid submission and contract approval had resulted
in a 7.5% increase over bid amounts, before construction had started,
to the Government's attention;
(b) Furniture and Equipment: procurement started from 12 to 30 months
behind the appraisal schedule and lasted longer than expected (Annex
7). The 187% overrun for the Adult Vocational Training Center
reflects the replacing and complementing of unsuitable initial
equipment; the 196% overrun for the Project Unit reflects the
prolongation of the project's life and unanticipated needs resulting
from two moves and the expansion of local staffing;
(c) Technical Assistance: the underutilization of the 32 manyears
provided (only 26 manyears were used) has been offset by major
delays; and
(d) Professional Fees: Professional fees, mainly for architectural and
engineering services, wound up as estimated despite substantial
delays and readjustments to the final cost of civil works.
4.03     Unit costs compare favorably with the costs of similar projects in
Western Africa, over the same period (except for the Adult Vocational Training
Center, CENAFOP, which experienced bad delays and was built on a difficult
site, and for which supplementary equipment was needed):
In addition, one needs to consider the sharp and unpredictable rise of
prices after 1973 and the US dollar depreciation which went on until 1980.



- 16 -
(a)  Civil Works (new construction and site development):    Civil works
came to about US$275 per gross square meter. This average, however,
does not include the CENAFOP (US$446 per gross square meter).
(b) Professional Fees (including site surveys and soil tests):
Professional fees came to about 6% of the actual cost of civil works,
which is reasonable; and
(c) Technical Assistance: Technical Assistance was (i) about US$3,300
per manmonth of consulting services for preinvestment studies (1973-
74); (ii) on average, about US$53,000 per manyear of Unesco
specialist services (1973-79); and (iii) on average, about US$86,000
per manyear of ILO specialist services (1979-82).
(d) Civils Works and Furniture/Equipment (new schools): Unit costs per
student place were as follows: (i) Primary Teacher Training College,
Garoua (with 85% of the students boarding and four staff houses):
US$3,060; (ii) General Higher Secondary School, Yaounde (no boarding,
two staff houses): US$1,050; (iii) Technical Higher Secondary School,
Garoua (60% boarders, three staff houses): US$2,800; and (iv) Adult
Vocational Training Center (25% boarders, three staff houses):
US$5,885.
Financing
4.04     The estimated and actual financing breakdown for IDA and the
Government are summarized by disbursement category in Annex 9. As appraised,
IDA financed 58% of the civil works cost and 100% of the other costs, except
for: (a) the civil works of the Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS,
Yaounde) which were 100% financed by the Government because of differences
with IDA over the award of the contract (para. 3.11); and (b) minor civil
works, furniture and equipment expenses which were mistakenly financed by the
Government and for which reimbursement was not claimed, owing to the loss of
supporting documentation. The IDA funds earmarked for ENS were not cancelled,
but partly disbursed for other components. As a result, IDA's total financing
was 8% less than anticipated.   It was US$8.2 million, instead of US$9 million,
or 67% of the total project cost instead of 79%. US$761,763.22, which had not
been committed by the Closing Date (June 30, 1982), was cancelled from the
Credit in January 1983, after all acceptable applications were disbursed
against (Annex 10). The Government's total financing was 63% more than
estimated (CFAF 990 million instead of CFAF 607 million).
4.05     Disbursements from the IDA Credit are summarized in Annexes 9 & 10
(comparison of initial allocation and actual disbursements -- total and per
category), and in Annex 11 (comparison of initial and actual schedules of
disbursements). The schedule of disbursements reflects the very slow start-up
and the final lagging of the project, which was aggravated by the Government's
lengthy procedures for preparing and forwarding disbursement applications.
A seminar addressing this situation was organized in Cameroon by IDA in
November 1978, but did not result in any significant improvements.



- 17 -
V. EDUCATIONAL OUTCOME
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (ENI - ENIAs)
5.01     The original idea behind this component was twofold:   (a) to increase
the number of badly needed trained teachers for an expanding primary school
system; and (b) to increase the base from which the planned educational
reforms (para. 2.05) could work. At appraisal it was expected that these
would be "Ecoles Normales d'Instituteurs Adjoints" (ENIA) offering a somewhat
more accelerated course leading to the Grade II diploma ("instituteur
adjoint"), as opposed to "Ecoles Normales d'Instituteurs" (ENI) which lead to
the Grade I diploma ("instituteur"). It was also expected that they would
admit students at a lower level of education (three to four years of secondary
school, as opposed to the secondary school diploma). In fact, two of the
three project schools (Nkongsamba and Kumba) are mixed ENI-ENIA institutions
with separate programs which lead to the two types of diplomas for students
entering at the two different levels. The school at Garoua is an ENI. (There
are three ENIAs in the north, and this is the only ENI). In the context of
the general expectations that the project institutions would strengthen the
reform process (para. 2.05), the ENI at Kumba was equipped with a print shop
that was to print educational materials for the Anglophone area.
5.02     The project institutions (which are an integrated part of a larger
network of 17 similar institutions) are operating effectively. The colleges
at Kumba and Nkongsamba are well established institutions founded in 1926 and
1959 respectively; the project financed conversions and extensions were in
operation in 1977. The college in Garoua was created under the project's
financing and began its operations in 1977 also.
5.03     In general, these colleges are well administered and staffed.   The
two that have been in operation for many years have good staff and adminis-
trative continuity. The ENI created under this project was integrated into
the system of administrative and pedagogical practices already in operation
for many years in the rest of the country. There were 23 full-time teachers
in 1981-82 at Kumba, and 18 at Garoua and Nkongsamba respectively. This makes
for highly varied student/teacher ratios, ranging from 4.6:1 at Kumba to
13.6:1 at Garoua.
5.04     The need for trained primary school teachers has certainly turned out
to be even higher than projected. In 1980-81, only about 37% of the primary
school teachers were trained at the Grade I or Grade II levels and of these,
only 22% are fully trained (Grade I). The present 1982-83 situation is
similar to that of three years ago, given the increase in the primary school
population and the number of untrained teachers.
5.05     While the originally planned 280 additional places have been
provided, enrollments at the ENI-ENIAs in Nkongsamba and Kumba were at an
average of 20% and 47%, respectively, below capacity for the period 1977-82;
enrollments at Garoua have been at an average of 30% above capacity over the
same period. In 1982, enrollments were well above capacity in all insti-
tutions (Annex 12). This was a general phenomenon: in 1979-80 the total
capacity for all the ENI-ENIAs was 2,040, with enrollment at 1,603, meaning
that the schools were used at 78% of capacity, and in 1982-83 enrollment had
increased to above capacity in all of them.



- 18 -
5.06     The allocation of admissible students to the ENI-ENIAs is determined
by the Ministry of Education on the basis of a competitive entrance exam with
the number of available places being determined by the Ministry of Public
Service (Fonction Publique). The underutilization of two of these schools
until the current year is attributed to the cost (salary/scholarships) to the
Government of admitting students. The full attendance figure for the ENI at
Garoua could be due to the fact that it is the only ENI in the northern
region. The jump in enrollments for 1982-83 is a result of a greater
Government commitment to primary education.
5.07     Students entering into the ENI-ENIAs immediately become civil
servants and receive a salary/scholarship of CFAF 63,000 for the
"instituteur", and CFAF 50,000 for the "instituteur adjoint", out of which
they pay for their lodging, (all students are boarders), books (when
available), school uniforms, etc. They also sign a ten-year contract that
obliges them to work as teachers for all of that period. This contract is
effective, and defections from the profession are minimal, partly because of
the relative attractiveness of teachers' salaries. However, there are no data
on the disbribution of the graduates among primary schools.
5.08     Repetition and drop-out rates are minimal.   However, the rates of
success vary. Success on the written examination at the end of studies is
generally high (between 90%-100%, with very rare exceptions). But, in order
to be a certified teacher ("instituteur" or "instituteur adjoint"), the
student also needs to pass a practical examination, and the success rates here
are much lower, as low as 20%-40% for some years and as high as 100% for other
years. This suggests that the amount and quality of the practice teaching in
these schools could be improved.
5.09     Practice teaching involves two factors:   (a) actual practice teaching
in the primary schools; and (b) the use of teaching aids such as audio-visual
equipment and micro-teaching techniques. Every ENI-ENIA works in conjunction
with nearby primary schools where the students do two weeks of practice
teaching per trimester. However, the audio-visual aids are not uniformly in
use. Micro-teaching is supposed to be used and depends on video equipment
that was included in the project. This equipment was delivered to the Kumba
and Nkongsamba schools, but not completely to the one in Garoua (para.
3.14). The equipment is no longer working in the two schools that received it
because it broke down after about two years of operation and has yet to be
fixed; this is due to a lack of proper maintenance and repair facilities
(there is no national television in Cameroon).
5.10     There has been very little change in the administration and the
curriculum of the ENI-ENIAs over the past 10-15 years. This is related to the
fact that the reform of education that has been talked about since 1970 has
yet to be promulgated, meaning that these schools are used basically in the
same manner now as they were then. The major implication of this for the
project as it was appraised is that the ENI-ENIAs are not used for off-season
training courses, nor are there courses in community development techniques,
school guidance or administration designed to prepare future teachers to
become village leaders.
5.11     The print shop that was annexed to the ENI at Kumba was never put
into operation and eventually was returned to the Ministry of Education's



- 19 -
printing operation ("Centre d'Edition pour 1'Enseignement et la Recherche",
CEPER) in Yaounde in 1981. This was because no one had the expertise to
operate the equipment, and because the reform for which it would have been
used was not implemented. The buildings constructed to house the equipment
are partially used for instructional purposes. Most science laboratories and
workshops (except for those connected with home economics) are used as
classrooms or offices due to a lack of staff and consumable materials.
5.12     There was no technical assistance to these colleges, contrary to the
project agreement which called for two manyears for each school (para.
3.18). This specialist service was supposed to assist the college directors
in applying the new training and retraining programs. These new programs
never materialized because the reform itself was never instituted.
5.13     Conclusions and Lessons.   Depending on whether this component is
viewed in terms of the expectations at appraisal or on how it is operating,
one could come to very different conclusions concerning its outcome. On the
one hand, the ENI-ENIAs are functioning well: they are well administered, and
appear to be training teachers who stay in the teaching profession. They do
this competently and without undue strain. These schools have traditions and
well established operating procedures that have continued to the present.
They form a well-run system into which it is not difficult to integrate new
units (such as the one in Garoua). On the other hand, from the perspective of
the project's objectives (as described in the Appraisal Report), these schools
have both quantitative (paras. 5.05, 5.06, 5.09 and 5.11) and qualitative
problems, the latter being that the original raison d'etre for this component
has yet to be instituted -- i.e., the reform of primary education (para.
5.10). The reform project has been in the works for years and there are still
real chances that it will be implemented. Internal doubts about the reforms,
and opposition to them, have contributed to the delays. As for the other
project schools, no data could be obtained on the recurrent costs. Specific
conclusions and lessons are:
(a)  Educational reforms are more easily drafted and talked about than
actually implemented. The educational reform on which this project
component was based would have led to serious changes in primary
education in Cameroon -- changes that were not to everybody's
liking. In the best of cases such endeavors are not simple matters,
neither for organizational, nor pedagogical and political reasons.
In the appraisal of project components that are conceived with a view
towards reform, special attention should be given to a realistic
appraisal of the chances for implementation of the reforms;
(b)  When the creation of greater capacity in a project component implies
increased cost to the Government in the form of salaries and/or
fellowships, a careful analysis should be made of the Government's
ability and/or willingness to undertake these costs;
(c)  There is every likelihood that existing institutions with well-
established histories and operational traditions will continue to
operate as in the past, regardless of the intention of added
investments in the institutions. This inertia is simultaneously a
guarantee for relatively effective continuing operations and, at the
same time, an impediment to change;



- 20 -
(d) When introducing new and advanced equipment (science,video and print
shop equipment, for example) to be used as an essential pedagogical
tool, it is important to ensure that the staff and resources to run,
repair and maintain facilities will be available. The
appropriateness of the pedagogical technology should be critically
assessed; and
(e) The contradiction in the allocation of resources (low student/teacher
ratio versus insufficient practical teaching staff and materials)
should be addressed.
Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS) and the Bilingual High School (Lycee
Bilingue) , Yaounde
5.14     Discussions of these two project items are grouped together below
since both were designed to strengthen secondary school teaching and to
reinforce the expected reform of secondary education (para. 2.05).
5.15     The ENS is now part of the national university and, in fact, is its
faculty of education. It is the only secondary teacher training institution
in Cameroon. It has two different programs which have been more or less the
same since 1963: one for the training of lower level secondary teachers who
are admitted after their secondary school studies and who follow a three-year
course; and another to train upper level secondary teachers who are admitted
with a university diploma ("licence") and follow a two-year course. Admission
is based on a competitive exam. The ENS also has a two-year program to train
teachers for the ENI-ENIAs, as well as another program to train guidance
counselors. The ENS operates its regular course program during the school
year and has shorter training and retraining courses, as well as seminars,
during the summer. Enrollments at the ENS have gone from 572 in 1977-78 to
682 in 1981-82 (Annex 12). Although the demand for secondary teachers remains
high and is far beyond the present ENS capacity (increased to 850 under this
project), enrollments are limited by budgetary constraints, likewise at the
ENI - ENIAs (para. 5.06). The greatest needs are in math and science. The
drop-out rate from the ENS is close to zero, with only about 3% repeating any
given year, and the rate of failure at the end of studies is very low.
However, there are no data on where the graduates go. Also, from 1977-78 to
1981-82, the number of teachers increased from 60 to 73. As a part of their
training, the students at the ENS do practice teaching in the various
secondary schools in Yaounde. The students are distributed fairly evenly
among the different secondary schools and there is no one school that serves
as a demonstration secondary school. Given the lack of any real changes in
secondary curriculum and pedagogical methods, there was no immediate need for
a demonstration school.
5.16     The Lycee Bilingue was originally conceived to be a demonstration
high school (Lycee d'Application) that was to be operated in conjunction with
the ENS. It was to have been used for practice teaching experience in the new
secondary curricula that was to have been produced for the reform. Also, it
was to have served as an innovation center in secondary education curriculum
development. Since the reform has not been instituted, this component became
a Lycee Bilingue in agreement with IDA which started up in 1977 and, which, in
some respects, is two separate schools: a French lyc6e and an English upper



- 21 -
secondary school. Each section has a different curriculum and its own set of
teachers. The French section has three grades (Seconde, Premibre and
Terminale) and the English section has two (Lower and Upper Sixth).
Enrollments in the Lyc;ee Bilingue has varied as shown in Annex 13. The
enrollment was decreased after 1977-78 because there were too many students
per class. The present average is between 50-55 students per class and the
Lycee presently has 80 full-time and fully qualified teachers. ENS students
come for practice teaching, as well as in other secondary schools in Yaounde
(para. 5.15). This school has no boarding facilities. The students come from
all over Yaounde and some from as much as 10 km away. It is ironic that in
this Lycee Bilingue, the well-equipped, well-maintained language laboratory is
hardly used. This is not an indication that the students are bilingual,
however, which is far from being the case, but rather that no member of the
staff has mastered its use. The science laboratories are well equipped and
used, as is the library. The arts and crafts workshop is used as an
infirmary.
5.17     Conclusions and Lessons.   The situation here is quite similar to that
of the ENI-ENIAs. The project institutions are well run, although they
haven't responded to the original project design as stated in the Appraisal
Report and confirmed in the Credit Agreement. The reason for this is simply
that the expected reform never materialized. The ENS is operating as it
always has and the Lyc6e Bilingue plays its role as one of the two such
institutions of its kind in the country. It is also one of the better lycees
in Yaounde.
Upper Secondary Technical School (Lycee Technique), Garoua
5.18     The guiding idea behind this component was to create a technical
educational infrastructure for the northern region, which is the least
developed part of the country. This is the only school of its kind in the
region. The development of the modern sector in the north lags far behind
that of the south, but it is expected that the situation will begin to change
with the operation of a large hydro-electric plant, expected to be in service
at the end of 1983. At present, the greatest need for technicians is in the
areas of electricity and agriculture, as well as in commerce and management.
5.19     Students are admitted into the Lycee Technique after four years of
prior secondary education and on the basis of results on a selective exam.
The program of studies is for three years leading to the "Baccalaureat
technique." The school opened in 1977 and enrollments have been above
capacity since its second year of operation (Annex 14). There are no girls in
the industrial sections but their proportions in the clerical sections have
steadily increased from 19% in 1979-80 to 36% in 1982-83. At present, there
are 133 boarders. The students take two exams: the "probatoire" at the end
of the second year of studies, and the "baccalaureat" after the third and
final year. The results, by section, are shown in Annex 15. Although the
results are erratic, in the industrial sections the majority of the students
pass, but in the clerical section this is not always the case.
5.20     The teaching staff has increased from 16 in 1977 to 35 in 1980 and
has declined to 31 in 1982 (Annex 16). The student/teacher ratio is, at
present, 9.4:1. Until 1982, about 50% of the teaching staff were technical
assistants from France. This figure has increased to 61% for the present



- 22 -
year. However, in spite of the large numbers of teachers, some courses have
not been given due to a lack of qualified teachers. Technical teacher
training is being developed in Douala, in the south (a new college to replace
the present provisional facilities would be the major component of the
proposed fourth project). However, there are difficulties irn attracting
qualified Cameroonian teachers in this region. Any further expansion of the
Lyc6e Technique would have to consider the availability of teachers and the
likelihood of continued French technical assistance.
5.21     There are no data on what happens to the school's graduates.
Interviews with school officials indicated that because of the lack of an
industrial infrastructure in the north about 75% leave the northern region
either for work in the south or for further studies overseas. Those who stay
are mainly those having taken clerical courses. In any case, there is no lack
of opportunities for the graduates for either work (mainly in the south) or
further study.
5.22     The students do not receive fellowships but nor do they pay for their
lodgings and meals. The school's workshops are purely for instructional
purposes and are quite active in repairing, maintaining, and even constructing
some of the school's equipment and furniture.
5.23     The school's curriculum was planned locally until now, based on the
judgement of the staff. It was a mixture of the French curriculum and local
needs. From now on, the curriculum will follow guidelines determined by the
Ministry with a greater degree of specialization beginning in the first year
of studies.
5.24     Conclusions and Lessons.   As with the other project components, this
one is operating satisfactorily although not quite as intended at appraisal.
In this case, the "culprit" is a lack of industrial development in the
northern region, a fact that is reflected in the lack of a governing board
with representatives from local industry (as was agreed to in the Credit
Agreement). This is a well-run school that is effectively providing technical
education to students in a region that is particularly lacking in industrial
activities. Because of this, most of the graduates leave the region upon
graduation and have little problem in finding appropriate jobs elsewhere. The
school is overcrowded and underequipped. Nonetheless, the competent direction
and cooperative spirit that prevail have greatly helped to overcome these
problems. If an investment such as this one is to be effective as intended,
(i.e., for the economic development of the region), greater consideration
should be given to the prevailing economic context. Greater consideration
should also be given to the prospects of staffing such an institution. The
reluctance of qualified nationals to accept positions in this area makes
foreign assistance imperative and expensive.
Adult Vocational Training Center (CENAFOP), Douala
5.25     This component was the last one to be implemented.   The CENAFOP was
legally created (by governmental decree) in January 1981. The Board of
Directors first met ten months later. The instructors arrived in January
1982, the first training courses began in August 1982, but the Center is
greatly underutilized at present. These delays occurred in spite of the fact
that the construction was practically completed in September 1979, at which
time most of the equipment was delivered.



- 23 -
5.26     These delays can be attributed to the disagreement over
administrative sponsorship of the Center as well as to delays in site
selection and construction (paras. 3.09 and 3.12). The Appraisal Report
called for the Center to be under the Ministry of Education, Culture and
Vocational Training (which has become the Ministry of Education). But, the
Ministry of Labor challenged this, arguing that CENAFOP activities were
logically part of its domain, rather than that of the Ministry of Education,
Culture acid Vocational Training. It took six years to finally resolve this
dispute in favor of the Ministry of Labor. The delays in granting the Center
a legal existence contributed to the delays in implementing this component,
the consequences of which are being felt now as the Center is starting up its
activities.
5.27     The CENAFOP is now a financially autonomous organization under the
Ministry of Labor. The Center is run by its Director, who is appointed by
governmental decree. There is also a Board of Directors that oversees the
activities of the CENAFOP. It is composed of a President appointed by
presidential decree and representatives of concerned ministerial departments,
as well as representatives from employers and the trade unions. The Board of
Directors oversees the management of the CENAFOP, its pedagogical activities,
the development of its personnel, and it votes on the Center's budget. So
far, the Board has met twice at yearly intervals.
5.28     The staff of the CENAFOP presently includes a Director and an
Assistant Director, 19 non-teaching personnel and 21 instructors. In 1971-82
salaries for teaching personnel consumed 72% of the total budget, but this
decreased to 58% in 1982-83.
5.29     The finances of the CENAFOP are entirely managed by the Center.   This
means that the Center pays its staff directly. The instructors' salaries are
based on the prevailing rates in industry augmented by bonuses in order to
discourage defection to industry. The CENAFOP receives financing from the
Government as well as from the firms sending their workers for training. The
Government funding was CFAF 100 million for 1981-82, and it is expected to be
CFAF 250 million for the current year. The Center also charges the firms for
the training of their employees according to a set formula (Annex 17).
However, for the first year of operation, this was adjusted downward in an
effort to make the Center's activities appear more attractive. Revenues from
this source (services rendered) were CFAF 137,000 for 1981-82 and are expected
to be CFAF 9.4 million for the current year of operation.
5.30     Expenses for 1981-82 were CFAF 62 million for staff salaries plus
CFAF 38 million for other operating costs. Salaries are expected to double to
CFAF 123 million in 1982-83 and the operating costs are expected to jump to
CFAF 136 million. The financial health of the CENAFOP depends on its
reputation in the industries which are its clients. The willingness of these
industries to contribute to the expenses of the training received by their
workers will be crucial to the future of the CENAFOP's financial indepen-
dence. Preliminary indications are positive and there are even cases of
independent, self-employed craftsmen paying for a course.
5.31     The CENAFOP began its course programs in automobile repair,
electronics, electricity, electromechanics, sheet metal, welding, plumbing and



- 24 -
machinery in August 1982. A course lasts from three to six weeks at 16 hours
a week. During this time the trainee is paid by his employer. The Center's
course programming is theoretically set until July 1983. Each training group
has about three trainees and under present conditions the Center can
accommodate 28 trainees at any one time for the workshop related courses.
There are an additional 20 places available in the language laboratory and 20
in the typing room. At present (early 1983), the CENAFOP is being largely
used by the ENSET (school for training teachers of secondary technical
schools) which is using about 90% of the physical space and of the time of the
instructors. This is expected to change shortly, when construction of
provisional facilities for ENSET is completed nearby; in about 1987, ENSET
should move into new facilities to be built also nearby under the proposed
fourth project.
5.32     Two essential aspects of the pedagogical work of the CENAFOP have
been the preparation of curricula materials and de aied analyses of the jobs
for which workers are trained. The staff of the Center has already prepared
17 job analyses (Annex 18) and 75 modules of instructional material (Annex 19)
that are produced at the Center and used as texts for the training courses.
At least ten more instructional modules are in preparation.
5.33     Although it is too early for any judgement on the matter, the initial
demand for the services of the CENAFOP appears high. While optimistic about
the prospective benefits of the Center, employers are also pragmatically
waiting to see these benefits in action. This means that the first year or
two of operations will be particularly crucial to the success of the CENAFOP
since it is this period that will make its reputation. If the training
offered proves beneficial to workers and employers alike, a sustained demand
for its services is a great probability and this will have positive
consequences on the financial independence of the Center. Also, while it is
too early to begin evaluative follow-ups on former trainees, it is not too
early to start setting up such a system which would be of help in planning
future course offerings as well as a way for the CENAFOP to keep its finger on
the pulse of the needs of its clientele.
5.34     In this context of starting up, and the imperative need to make a
good initial impression on its clientele, the problems associated with the
CENAFOP have added significance. These problems are: (a) the meager workshop
space (para. 3.10); and (b) the departure of the technical assistants after
only two months of overlapping with their counterparts (para. 3.19) Although
the national staff appears to have been well trained and is motivated, the
absence of technical assistance personnel during the initial operating period
in the three substantive areas of vocational guidance, teaching aids and
methods, and workshop training, programming and management may be prejudicial
to the quality of the early operation of the Center. The experts in teaching
aids and workshop training stayed for only one year and are particularly
missed.
5.35     Conclusions and Lessons:
(a) When developing a component of an educational project that is outside
the formal educational system, special consideration should be given
to the question of administrative domain or sponsorship, as well as
to the question of the formal or legal existence of such



- 25 -
components. Although outside the sphere of formal educational
activities, such components nonetheless need an institutional basis
to operate. This should be created as soon as possible. Although
the Ministry of Education, at the time of appraisal, included culture
and vocational training, it had only a directorate for technical
education, which is different from non-formal adult vocational
training. Greater attention should have been given to the Ministry's
experience and competence in this area.
(b) Long delays in implementation should give rise to reconsideration of
aspects of the project itself, particularly when they entail a
greatly shortened period of technical assistance that would have been
helpful in the crucial first year of operation.
(c) The CENAFOP's administration has not been very aggressive in
contacting firms and developing a market for its services. This
might well be a reasonable tactic, however, as long as the Center is
not operating adequately. Project components that operate in a
market situation (i.e., where a part of the component's operating
budget is dependent on payment by its clientele for services
rendered) need to be particularly careful about the initial period of
operation. This period can make or break the component's reputation,
doing which will influence its relationship with its clientele as
well as its future financial situation.
Preinvestment Studies
5.36     The preinvestment study of agricultural and rural training was
carried out by a consulting firm in 1973-74 and was used to define the agri-
cultural education and training component of the Third Education Project (Loan
1245T-CM). The study contained a fairly detailed description of the existing
institutions of agricultural education and training and analyzed the
weaknesses of the system as well as the various socioeconomic factors that had
contributed to the situation at the time (1973). The study also contained a
great deal of descriptive data on agricultural systems and regional vari-
ations.
5.37     The pre-investment study of technical education requirements in the
northern region was completed in 1974 by a consulting firm and was also used
to define a component of the Third Education Project. The study contained a
detailed review of the economic activities and expected manpower requirements
in the region as well as a review of the educational and training system in
that region at that time (1973).



- 26 -
VI. IDA PERFORMANCE
6.01     The project was identified and appraised at a time when the
Government was considering major reforms in both primary and secondary
education. The aim was to harmonize the country's two educational systems and
bring the content of education more into line with the economic and social
realities of the country. This caused the appraisal team to conceive of the
project in the context of the expected reform and to design its primary and
secondary education components to serve the reform.
6.02     The project appraisal was overly optimistic about the Ministry of
Education's ability to have its plans for the reform adopted by the
Government. The reform has yet to be decreed although it has been on the
Ministry's agenda since well before the appraisal of this project. The non-
implementation of the reform is due to the very nature of such basic reforms
and the difficulties encountered in gaining widespread acceptance for them.
In this case, there was (and still is) much opposition to the educational
reform projects from within and without the educational system.
6.03     The project was appraised at a time when educational reform and non-
formal approaches were of recent and of particular concern to the Bank. This
meant that there was little experience with the actual political and
administrative problems that can surround such desires for change. This was
manifested in the judgement concerning the prospects of the educational reform
and concerning the administrative establishment of the CENAFOP which was
finally resolved six months before the revised Closing Date of the project.
6.04     Supervision of the project was satisfactory with respect to the
frequency of missions. Between June 1973 and April 1982 there were 22 super-
vision missions totalling 23 staffweeks. Only seven of these missions
included an educator and eight had technical educators. An architect or an
engineer was on all but three of the missions. It was only towards 1979 that
these missions began to remind the Government of the need to provide the
CENAFOP with a legal existence, since it had appeared that this had been
accomplished in 1975. The prospects for the implementation of the educational
reforms have never been evaluated in supervision reports. This is not to say
that an educator could have changed the situation, but we would at least have
been better informed of the situation. A supervision mission did call
attention to under-enrollments in the ENI-ENIAs (para. 5.05) and this
situation has been subsequently corrected.



CAMEROON - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 320-CM)
Comparison of Objectives, Means and Outcomes
Project Objectives at Appraisal           Means for Attaining Objectives                             Outcome at Completion
(i.e., Project Items)
I.  To improve the quality of           (a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of        All three colleges were completed in
primary and secondary education in           three Primary Teacher Training Colleges         1977 - 78 and are in operation; no
the context of educational reform            (extension, conversion and/or rehabilitation    technical assistance provided
and expansion.                               of two already existing institutions and
construction of one new institution);
technical assistance.
(b) Construction, furniture and equipment for       Completed in 1978; construction was
extension and conversion of the Secondary       financed entirely by the Government
Teacher Training College in Yaounde.             (misprocurement).
(c) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a     Completed in 1977 but not used as
Demonstration Upper Secondary School in         originally planned because the
Yaoun de.                                        expected reforms were never
implemented. Instead, this is a
Lycee Bilingue operating effectively
within the educational system.
II.  To develop technical and            (a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a     School in Douala transferred to the
vocational training to fill the             Lower Secondary Technical School in Douala       Third Education Project.  School in
needs of the industrial sector and           and an Upper Secondary Technical School in      Garoua completed in 1977 and in
to help develop the northern region.         Garoua.                                         operation.
(b) Construction, furnishing and equipping of an    Construction completed in 1981, but
Adult Vocational Guidance and Training          operation began only in 1982; technical
Center in Douala; technical assistance.         assistance partly provided.
(c) A pre-investment study of technical             Completed in 1974 and used to define a
education and vocational training               component in the Third Education
requirements in the northern region.            Project.
III.  To explore investment              A pre-investment study of agricultural and rural    Completed in 1974 and used to define
prospects in agricultural and rural     training requirements to assist the Government       a component of the Third Education
training.                               in its planning for these needs.                     Project



- 28 -                                  ANNEX 2
CAMEROUN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
STRUCTURE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT
PROVINCES OU. CENTRE-SUO, EST, UTTORALI NORO, OUEST
&AR et SAL
E.M
ECOLES PRICAIRES                  CLM
---      ~       ECUNIVERtlTE
LYCEES O'ENSEIGNEMENTSGENERAL TAC.  CO                FAC DtS LRES UC
_~~~~~~~~~~~D ,C L1D z
LYCEESHNI SCHOUES INUSTRIELS
SouT7- d  d-a      0                                                             Wd-AC.E.P  r{
LYCEES TECHNIQU ES COMMERCIAUX        FAC, 0E DROrr                   t
-*~ ~   ~        ~                                     Mee O "M 1D
r .  .  .                  ~~~~~~~~FAC. DES SCIENCES
CE.T 0 *.S ~~~~~S.A.EI .M.
~~~~~~C.A.p                        D.E.SG ELNA.s
O EXAMEN D'ENTREE        COURS NORMAUX      E.N.1 A.                                           Ing TA|1 Wr.
O OIPLOMEODESORTIE               C.A.FMKEG.                                    .A.P.E nTrwmux
E.N.I.                        °[:      m~       =      M|ll. 1 de mnto
T  1~~~&C                       EL SUP. P  bItW-IU
X 1 2 ~~~~~~~~~~C CU.SS.
3       {                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.N.S.
DIVERSES ECOLES PROFESSIONNELLES                --Of-                    CN.H.
C.A. CLE.G  OS=
PROVINCES DU NORO-OUEST ET DU SUD-OUEST                                                    irnuc
TECHNICALSCHOOLS                                      lesatff         + 2* OwL
PRlbtARY SCHOOLS                    5
| 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | b | 8 | 7 t_                            ~~~~~~~~FAC DE THEOLOGIII
FSLC   COMIMERCIAL SCHOOLS
+  1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 51:1LYCEES SAC
SECONDARY SCHOOLS I
C.AJST. GC
E.TT.C    HETT.C
O ENTRANCE EXAMINATION     E       ]      o
O3 LEAVING EXAIMINATIOIN 
VAIOU VCATIONAL SCHOOLS
SAR
Soun:- Mintm Jde l'Eduest.on Nationnb                                                                   World Bak-tsa0oC



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Enrollments for Different Levels of Schooling/
Effectifs par Type d'Enseignement, 1970-1981
Primary Teacher
Year/   Primary Education/ General Secondary/   Technical Secondary/  Training /
Annee   Ens. Primaire      Secondaire General   Secondaire Technique  Enseignement Normal
1970       936,000               56,000                17,400                749
1976     1,157,000              120,000                34,000              1,300
1981     1,379,000               169,300               56,300              1,603
/1   For 1980.



Country                                                                               COMPLETION STUDY                                                                  IBRD/IDA Education P,olet:1-
Pays  Cameroon/Cameroun                                                                 ACHEVEMENT                                                                      P,olets Education BIRD/AID
Project                                                    COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES                                   Form
P,olet  Education 2                                      COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                                 Fiche  I-A-lb
xm                                 Institutton                                                                                                                          N- Institutiom
V=    N.     320 - CM              Etablissement  Primary Teacher Training College / E.N.I.A. Garoua                                                                    No.yeau. etabhssemem
C,ed,t                             (o, all de.t,cal institution)
Credit                             (ou tout etablissement identique)
PRE.TSESORIGINA"y REQUIREDY
LO UX PREVUSI'                                                                 PREMISES BUIt_T
APPRAISAL            SI.d.nl P,---                 REVISION (,f.n,)                                             LOCA.X C0.S1.U11S
A I EVAI-I..         P.-.        -zlo             (I.-                                                          SI.-I P....  210
- AC.DE.IC AND COMMUNAL IACILIIIES
ENSEIGNEMENT ET SERVICES COM.UNS                          N., A-                                              N.1 Al..                                          N., A-
Su"-   ('/.q                                       S.,I-. n- (_2,
Boarding/ Internat
Nu-,
Staff Housing/Logements de         N.-b,.
fonction                                          E.&                 S.. 1.1.1                                          S.b I-I                        E..i,              S- I-,
A ... UnI,.
0-g-ft. d.. I.,...
Classrooms/Salles de Classe   30       2             50                100                                                                  2              51               102
Sozial Studies/ Sciences
soc iales                   30       1                                66                                                                 1                                61
Observation                  G+30      1                                88                                                                  1                               124
lDemoastratian                 60        1                                75                                                                 1                                76
Science Lab/Laboratoire
Sciences                    30       1                               120                                                                  1                               102
.Workshop/Atelier             20       1                                110                                                                 1                               118
MuLtipurpose/Salle
polyvalente                115   (2 shifts or dining/2 servic s      120                                                                                                  167
Kitchenfistorage/Cuisine E                        pour repas)
- magasins                                                             125                                                                  1                               121
Library/Bibliotheque                                                    90                                                                  1                               80
Collg_ction room/Collections                                            50                                                                  1                                43
Yarm__%heAUH,nR- -agrirol-e                                             70                                                                  1                               68
Administ-tio                                                           150                                                                  1                               130
Student toilets/Sanitaires
- Alaves                               4             10                 40                                                                  4                                28
Sub-Total I/Sous-total 1                                                     1204                                                                                                  1220
2.
Dormitories/Dortoirs                                                  1233                                                                                                 1208
SubTotal 2,(Sous--total 2                                                   1233                                                                                                  1208
3.
krincipal/Directeur                                                     90                                                                  1                               90
lStaff/Per&onnal                        3             75                225                                                                  3             73               219
3/Sous-total 3                                                      315                                                                                                  309
2737
521                                                                                                  858
S. f.ir tLt, L'IWI,                                                                                                                                                   3595
Al..  S1,,d-, Pl-  S.,f- P., pl- d                               16                                                                                                                         m
D-            1 1983                                                                                                                                     Sh-,            f             Sham
_A.Pril/Avri.     .                                                        I/ A,.91.d b-- Ih.G..,,,-.,-d IBRDIIDA                                    Pwe             d,       8     p.g.
Ag,dd , le G.-r-t ., 1. BIRDIAID



CottV  aero/amru                                                              COMPLETION STUDY                                                        IBRD(IDA Education Project
Pays   Cmro/aeunACHEVEMENT                                                                                                                              Projets iducatlon BIRD/AD
Project  Education 2                                    COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES
Pro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et ~~~~~~~~~~COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                               Fiche I--b
-Loom-                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Institution
-44IM.-                  ~~~~Etablissenment  Primary Teacher Training College / E.N.I.A. NKONGSAMBA___________
CreditL      32( C               o all Identmcal institution)                                                                                           E.tensions dto Exsassust P ssitant
CridIt  NO   320______CM_____     ou tout etablisserrent identique)                                                                                      ielosdkabhnmobot
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REQUIRED                                                 PEIE UL
LOCAUX PREVIJS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~LOCAUX CONSTRUITS
REVISION Ill .t. I
APPRtAISAL          StO-tI PIn  210             l.=ooodIt          slw.ft.r.-.                            Stontl pi..t  210
A L EVALUATION       It.d  o.Dt                                     10.000  -                              PaaSRv
ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIES  ,N., A-a                                                             a ta                                           a n
ENSEIGNEMENT ET SERVICES CONIMUNS                      S                                                UrR.t*tt1t5a                                   Sto.ot- n2a 
N -mb ,                                        N - r.                                          uc n      _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
u       N.-,.s                                         NO,bt 
EUI            SIl, t...                      Eat,           S.. tota                         Eha           Sob-atO
AOOOtt-aI.aO Unit.S....IU                                                                                                                  ..Il
D..p,.atI- dS t-Too.N                                 TE.,                     E   N     I                                    E    NT 
Multipurpose Room/Salle      _         ilN                                                                                      T_                 
polyvalente F2 shiifts7ser  10M ____                           ___i___                                                                                              ___
Kitchen/Cuisine                                            _____1__      4_
SaltaryBloBl11ocsanjtairc                 1 21254                                                                                                 20- -   - -  -__  _
--60~~__                                                                                                            _   _---4__
1,J _r ,-y/ih1J th ___ - -   -- _                                   _ _  i-                              1 '-        -                                        I±Lt        T
flatin o u sa~~~~~~~~~~~~ai-~~~~-         ____    7~~~~~~~ -9                                        I -  ___                --.--s--    -
120  - -              ----t   ---   --  ___   - T I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -----
T.W                   -I.                                        51nie--1U ~ ~ 3                    -       -j -                    1                  -11
T.lPI G.. A-                                        497U~     lI 
NFN   N-                                                                                                                                                                   I>____  ___ 
Total oat R  Sottaca nan. tataIn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
WaIts .00 tI,OutatIoo  Mota .toI,bol.ttOo~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total OrEs Atta  Surtaca 0,0Th tOtal.                                                                                       _____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oa.. April/Avril 1983~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~



Country                                                                                   COMPLETION STUDY                                                                  I BR D/I DA Education Project
Pays    Caeon/aeonACHE VEMENT                                                                                                                                               Projets educationt BIRD/AID
Project.  Education 2                                          COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISZES                                   Fr
Projet                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAMME ARCHITIECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                     FIore  I-B-lb
EbInstitutont  Primary Teacher Training College I E.N.I.A.    KUMBA                                ___________
Etablisseffient~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Srninat xitn                                    retm~
Credit     32      M(or all Identical Institution)                                                                                                                          E esost     xsii  m m  I
Cr6dit  No  320_ __ ___CM __ __ __   (ou  toot etablissement identique)  E__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Stens,ons  d4tabliso.meetts *xIsUants
PREMISES ORIGINALLy REQUIRED
LOCAUX PREVUS                                                                          PREMISES BUILT
_____________________________________________              LOCAU. CONOT.UITS
REVISION III onr
APPRAISAL              Suod.no P1.0 210              1I0 ....oflemOl        srlI." Ci. -                                 rudo,.r Pio..  210
LEVALUATION                                                             PI.-   I .oln- 0PI....__d__W.-
ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIeS                             N., A- .'A.N.                                                                                                   r
ENSEIGNEMENT ET SERVICES COMMUNE  C S                         S.- n- 1002,00 I                                                                                            Nu,, n.
Boardinig/Internat                                             N-tBo                     NO.r
U U      N-mE.                                                N-b-,                                                 N-wER
E.Uf             OuR  -IO                           C.,h             N,,stot                              EooI             sub to.
A - -Io. LIM,.                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~UnItoIr,  Sou. totOl                      UnItol.          Sob  tta                             un,Itit          R. oO
_ _ _  _    _   _                                                                                                                     T                  _     _     -   -~~~~~~~T  NE  N E 
Demonstration       __60_75                                                                                                                                                                   82
_ '2          30             60,-                       -_                                    ___                                      __      2
StdentToiltTT'1lete, et                              ________-.                          -----        --                                                                                    60
h-, R... /q, I 1 e-4'nQfs--          2 5     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~                    I                                               __                     "
______                      ____                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~180
R, g___I_                                                   -                                                                                                                            32
EnivironmetenEnvironnement-                                                                                                                                                                  2 .-______  -L._
Audiovisual Lab/Lab. audio.                                               -    4      -    7if-t-                -     -                                        _____
of
N-azinePoduWtionan/Pubadrld                            praen    pr22
tockroom/magasin                                                                                                                            38~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I O
xpedltlon                                                                                                                                    27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



COMPLETION STUDY                                                            IBRDl'.UA Educadoo Projects
CO" Cameroon/Cameroun                                                                                                                                        ri  dutonIRAl
Pays   ___________                                                                     ACHE VEMENT                                 ~eualeBR/I
Prosect                                                    COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES                            Frm     161
Propst   Education 2                                     COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PRtOGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                         Fie"     -Bl
Los                      Institu~~~~~tiboemnt Secondary Teacher Training College /E.N.S. Yaounde'                                                      E--tori,a dtoExifitpsurlNs .xwt
Crdt  320-CM                 (or all Ideffteal Institution)
CrIdit  No. ____________           ou tout ktoblssrment identique)
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REOUIRED
LOCAUX PREVUS                                                                  PREMISES BUILT
________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _____   _ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _O CAULXAUX O NSTTRI. `IT
I                      ~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISAL                               REVISION (11 -nv
A L EVALUATION     8SItdEI PI.o-  850            (I. - 0-            StUdofnI PI-.  850Stdn I
j                        Place. d Slow, ________P-_d_61   Du..________    PIC.- d .l.                          PI-j m       850
ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIES 
ENSEIDNEMENT ET SERVICES COMMUNS  0N.l Ar-                                                                  NEC A-.                                           0 A'.
au,,_._.fOO(II2I.o  I                            SorC... ._PI (,,21.o                              ofo~,  .2.
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W- NoAE-Nbfto
N.",.r                                           NO.",.                                            N-mor
E.0            Sub-1ElO                          E0.h            Sub 10-1                          5.0            S,b toE
D.Ig,.tlon d.c lo-o          T    F.  N      E    N      T      E            E 7      TN      E    N      T      E N  T              E    N     E    N     T       a      N
Laboratorv/Laboratoire        20                                    4                     -_2- -_                      92   I                    -     6     -902                 __
Keverd StcIItln/gtl,din Fereg  -- --          - -       -                        - -     10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                    1
Classroom/Salle de Classe                                                   4___           _   ___                    220                   4         55         -      220
-  hysics/Physigue                                                         14I *-
Classroom/Sall  de Classe    ___                                                         jI         __
Teachers/Prof esseurs                                                                  -24 ____ 
I.aborator  oratoire  ~~~20             1                     ____    70    ___     ~        59                                      2        5918                        ___
Classroom/Salle de Classe                                           i.      ____    -       L    .                                           1 -  . 
Teachers /Professeurs                                                                      I                                                   __24__I_ 24                         _
lAortoy/aora gire         20                2       144               -4 88            2                     -6120       -             ___
.-Irg                                                                    36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2         6    __7                  _
Cl.--R/S.Iles  Classe                                                          55               165 --  L23  -        30       55                1 
IE.-a,hpr.q                                                                                                  36_ _  _ _I_-I                                    36
R,I ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    _  __ __   _g          _ _ _  __ ___                                       __ _ __8
N * New  N.o.c   class                                                                                                              --



CoUnys   Cameroon/Cameroun                                                               COMPLETION STUDY                                                                 IBRO/IDA Eductlion PrEcts
ACHEVEMENT                                                                    Projets ducdation BIRD/AID
Project
Projet   Education 2                                           COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMINES
COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                                Form
i rx                                Institution  Secondary Teacher Training College/E.N.                                                                                 Fiche  I-B-
Pr6ti,                               Etablissmerrnt                 Ta
Credit                              (or all ldentical Institutlon)                                                                                                       Extensions to Existing Prinhmin i
Credit  No 320-CM                    (ou tout eublissement identiquel                                                    ___         _                                   Extensions d'itablnus tuux'
PREMISES ORIOINALLT REQUIRED
LOCAUX PREVUS it                                                                      PREMISES 8VI LT
L_CAUX PREVUS L VAUAIO   tu"twIA  RV11D (tjtt   su. rtr-LOCAUX CONSTRUITS
APPRBAISAL                                            EIINft.Y
A L-EVALUATION        Satw-n PI-t....ft. I--S                                                                              ' I-
B                                 PletI d I.-                     D..                  PI.  o t   -b d a-
1. ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIES                           N.t A-
ENSESIGNEMENT ET SERVICES COMMUNS  Y S                       s     ,tt    )                                        Sl!c N.,a.. A- 2                                     N.1 A-t
(Continued/Suite)            NVI        N-sb.,                                              N                              _ __                 N
.Boarding/Internat                       N                                 .Ne
Acnoenodeif Unit. UIt-                                           EOtltO t.                          Unit.-,          Sou. tomi
Dd.sn.tlon dat lon.            -T   E    N     E     N      T       E      N      T     E    N     E  I N       T_E_ N                 T  |       N     S    N      T
Forward/Report                                                              578                                         2002                                                2002     _
Library/Bibl~otlhieque                                                                                                               N2-                                                  7
Classroom/Salle de Classe
E _ _ = = _ = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                     _    6 _        _2 _       J 24       7         2 _   _    _6 2_ =1724
Seminar/Seminaire                                                                                                                     72                 2        136                     72
s-orApe/nFbrft l _ i _ i _ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21                                             I21-t_4                     121                      42
NtafAtfbriA6.Z               ____D 1I V           I I__ _       i       8        _i           _  _    I                   _____                               _Rq
/ g e t e ,t( cT . , tne  _ __'              _     _        _    --                                                                        I      _                        1 8 0
t'-'0                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_8                                                 18
Toolnitter_ 5wdn totool l \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ni                                                         202 |  |liR                                         90WE 2n7 RQSC- 
Wat, anddutiCtulaton  Mo. erttclttoin)on|                                   |R5                                   R7     io7     lS 
2olO Studnt HosteCabreooos     2              240         9                   2184       0        30                               2-376-360                  2    6.6=237i
To    .  . At
Dat  May/Mai 1983                                 to be renovated a/o reconverted                                                                                         ehoft
11 Euattng Umnno- Peilitia. tt ce~Srt itDtrnde ti pread t t peIat     2/ AatOtRdb bethwen t.GotrneGentantdlEbAD/IDA                    Shw    5         8
T   uToi                            LLt.uat*rqtt-    .LtrtnP4/     1AID det- I. HdorEse ntPlenit           Teloo. 1ntn . G---leIouIenoent ts BIRD/AmD                                d    -
E                                                                   eEdat.; E.Iunt..  a
N- Na   N- t
m 0



Country                                                                                 COWLETION STUDY                                                                    IBRD/IDA Education Proisct.
Pays    Cameroon/Ca_ero_m                                                                 ACHEVEMENT                                                                       Proists Education BIRD/AID
i      *oinct Education 2                                   COMPARISON OF ORIGtNALLY REQUIRED PREMSES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES                                       FoM
Projit                                                    CO WARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                                     Fiche  1-A-lb
Institution                                                                                                                            NwIsIuIn
No    320 - CM                Etablisamnint  Demonstration Upper Secondary School / Lycee d'application, YAOUNDE                                                     Nm Insluiom
Credit                              (or all identcal inetltution)
Credit                             /ou tout dublilssenmm Ideftlquel)
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REGUIREDI'
LOCAUX PREVUSI)                                                                  PREMISES BUILT
APnRAISAL             iunt 10                      REVISION lit                                                  LOCAUX COTRUITS
A L EVALUATION        PI-e_ d  ro__                                                                                81_-_ s tt Ple _  d'Ol'  1ooo
ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIES  u
ENSEIGNEMENT ET SERVICES COMMUNS  T                        N. Ar.                                               N.t Arl.                                           Nat Ara
2                  _                          Su,oa naO tnr2/. ,I                                  Su,_    (m / )                                     5        tn / o
Staff Housing/Logements de    54     Numo                                                No-br                                               N-ubr
fonct ion                                            -
D_ir l¶oaln d_nwit                            Ead                  S0urtotal                       Uanirni            S0u-total                       EacI                5ia-totI
_aIoSt __ l_so                                    _nur                 So. toa                          nti.              Sc-osUItr.                                          s -oa
1.~~~~U[
Classrooms/Salles de classe   40      16            960                   908                                                                                               1070
Classrooins/Salles de classe  45   -   5             70        _350                   _____ _                                     _           3         64 + 73 + 73         211
Social Studies/Sciences soc   40       2             84                   168     _                                                           2               82             164
Physics Lab/Labo. physique    20       2             70                   140                 _           ___      _      ______              2               68             136
Chem.Bio Lab/Lab. chijiie bi I 20      2             60                   120         __       _                                              2
Language Lab/Labo langues     20       2             4                                           __8___ _- -_-----
Arts & Crafts/Trav. manuels   12       1                                              _ IT  46 -_                                             1                                7
Typing Room/Dactylographie    20       1                                    8---  -- 48                                                                                       51              U 
Collection Room/Collections            3             20                    60--                                     - -._  _ _   __ _  ___ _ _ __  __ _ ___  _
i'rep & str    P-rm1YfeP&.6 maga rEn -  3                                 -30   90  -                               _- -_                                __      _        -1
LibrarIiy  liotEqAe   -1_                                                                                                                                                   113
Seminar Ioom/Sejmiaire _           __          _        _    __  __ _      _    _                                                                                             61
Teaches Room/ all     rofs.             4 _          20                    80                          _____          ______                            ________              77
Cafeteria (2 shifts/service 1)250      1            __                    225 _      _  ___       __           __                                                            308
Kitchen/Cuisine                                                                                                                                                              1 __  __  18
Adminitraton-                        T                                  -                  -- 9--6__                                                               ----320
Student Toilets/Sanitaires  Ifves                  _                      100                                                           _   __                                60
Lockers,Showers/Vestiaires, ouch       2                                                                                                                                      74_ _  _____  __ ____  _____
SeaTlt.h Rloom/Ifuirmerie                                                  12    9_                 _       _    _     _      _          (In Arts    : rafts Bldg./Dans b t. travaux manults)
Sub-Ttal I/ Sous-totali 1                                                      3193                                                                                                  37____  _______
Princioal/Proviseur                            _                           90___  ______                              __--_--r-_--                                       ---_ 90
Supervisor/Surveillant g n4 al        T7____1__7___                                                                                                                           73
Sub-Total 2/Sous-total 2                                                        1T6S-      __                         ___                                               =     -      163
ITotal fla At.a  Sfr-. nan.a wtoa                                                                                                                                                    3430
WallI .r tnearol Mttoa U9oo54a|3                                                                                                                                                    3430
Total Gro. Are  trS..- brut totlk.0
ToGoAN.p S t_   Sibao, . i- dXM                                                4 1 32                                                                                               4,442
Ama eaIr Srudastt Ra  Surf.. on vtia d'd.4..3                                                                                                                             4.4
April/Avtil 1883                                                                            .                                                                    6     do    8        S    2
Dati,                                                                          I/ A- itit_d earl Goubirtn t ,tn d BIRD/AID                                                             1 l cD_  2
AV"j P. i Gov--t e (. BIRDIAID                                                                               ai 



Comtry                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETION STUDY                                                    MBD/IDA Education Project
Payll   Cameroon/Camerotan                                                                    ACHEVEMENT                                                                            Projets, Education BIRD/AID
Prolect  Education 2                                           COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REQUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES                                           Form
PrOjet ___________COWPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVRAGES EXECUTES                                                                                    Fiche  I-A-tb
zm                           lm~~~~~~~~ntitution                                                                                                                              loain
Nm  o   320-CM                     Etabihsement  -Technical Upper Secondary School/Lycge Technique, Garoua                                                                      N     S 6nthtblonsne
Credit                               lor all identical institution)                                                                                                                Nueu     ulnret
Credit                               (ou tout eteblissement identique)
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REOUIREDII
LOCAUX PREVUSI/                                                                      PREMISES BUILT
APPRAISAL              S,..n, P-                       REVISION (i 1-1                                                  LOCAUX COUSTRUITS
A L EVALUATION         Plea,del..  325_(_..._PI-
1 ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL PACI LITI ES
ENSEIGNEMENT ET SE RVICES COMMUNS  S,                         N.1 Al-N..r.N.A
2. Boarding/Internat             Mu NuSu,t nb.t                                                                                   I,aunf
3. Staff HousinglLogements d4 ,           uN-n,                                                                                                      Notbr.
fonction                                                                  b..Ehsu .,N                                                               .
A-.O.Rd.tIOO Unit,                              EOcISEttl                                                                                                     u,Sboa
D.i,p,.1.n d. 1-...                ~~~~~~UnlitOtOSonto                                      Unitorebo,toa                                        Unio.                Sonroo
1. Classroomsa/Sallee do  classe    40        3             60                   180                                                                     4       3 x 60; 1 x 64            244
Classrocimb/Salles de ~clasae    30        3 ___          0__                   150J
Science Labs/Labo   acec                   2                                  AN 90  18
Nro. & St~ora e/Prep. & maia an            1 _      _  _   _  _   _            50                                                                                                        38
DrKafting/pessin                 25        1          ______                  150                                                  _______7                                             5
Technolo yTechnologie -      ~   25        1      __________50                                                  _____         __7
4g_chanical Shoi)  25  1                         -225    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~_____           ____25
Elecric     -~oAL t. A-leirtrotg-0 r                    ____                   3 ---Z_____ 
Enetineering Shop/At.a6nie cii   22        1       __________                 190                                                                                                       136___
Ki t-,h,,Ilc,,4 J.,   1                                  14.0-~~~qa w  Guwnette,.1. IR/AD                                                                                          ,
-  30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



cno    eron'cayrunCO&WLETIONd STUDY                                                                                                                                       IBDIAEducation Projects
Project Education 2                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY REGIUIRED PREMISES AND ACTUALLY PROVIDED PREMISES                      Founi
Projet _Education   ____2                                   COMPARAISON ENTRE LE PROGRAAI ARCHITECTURAL INITIAL ET LES OUVFrAGES EXECUTES                                    Fiche - I-A-la
lnlstitUion                                                                                                                              New Institutions
No   320-CI                    Etablissentent  Adult Vocational TrAining Canter/CE.NA.FO P.. Douala                                                                     Auweux etablisswnents
Credit                               (or all identical Institutioni
Cr6dit                              (ou tout dtablissemient Identlque)
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REDUIREOI'                                                        RMSE   UL
LOC.UX 'REVUS11                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAUX CONSTRUITS
REVISION (If -'CC
APPRAISAL              SCoOsCIC Pu-                                      S..-XO PI-c
-    A L EVALUATION         PIa...daI. ....2.5Q......IPI-d.O..CSCd.CP.a                                                             250
D...                                                            Paca S aI.-
I -ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL FACILITIESN.AN.A-4
ENSEIGNEMENT ETSERVICES COMMUNS                               Nat- Am.   .                                          Sar."__ wC2Imt                                       S...f Cat_IC2A'C I
2. Boarding/Internat                                                                                                                            Nu-,n.C C.2. I1 
Is                                                         NurIb
3. Staff Housing/Logemsenta de~        Ncar.                                                                                                     .,
fonction                                           E                                                                       u.IS
A-OntdsIO UnIIC                                 Unil.              51.Wof                           UniCCI.                                             LjClOa  niCi,.       S-o OC
1.Classroomo/Salles de classe     25       3              45                  135                                                                   3     4      0+4                   2
geminaris&mnaire         __     15       3       _      30                   90326
__z5__                                                                                                                                 108~~~~~~~~____6
___                                                                   _______________             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~81
RElo  shop A     ldect otacb*.  .t12-                                                                                                                                                 700______
ElectronicsShotalAt.  lectro  12    1                                  48                                                                                                       52_____
Dic'esel/CMotor S-         -     12 p]A. des.                  __4_13
2  utpups So/______4___---____20__ut                                                                                                                    +S ptMea/Hf. nfe~
3  A     i.. nr ac  Cntb1teu _   -2-_50
o.-CMril/rj  ri  3933 ae                                                                lwa i.GCCmCan ROIAp                                                             8'
L  ue                                                                                                                                  65~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tntc
&dMknA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ration                                                                                                                100~~~~~~~~~______ ______a
Student   LS                                             35                                                                                                       17~~~~~~~~~~~~M e I OICCCRR a . IOjI 



- 38 -                          ANNEX 5
Country: Cameroon               COMPLETION STUDY                IBRD/IDA E-ducation Projects
Pays:  Cameroun                   ACHEVEMENT                     Projets Education BIRD/AID
COMPARISION OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED AND ACTUALLY            Form
Projet.                                                                           I11
PROVIDED GROSS CONSTRUCTION AREAS                    Fiche
Credit.                  COMPARAISON ENTRE LES SURFACES
1:m.-    320-CM
Credit: No. -             BRUTES PREVUES ET CONSTRUITES
(m2lsq.')
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTED AREAS FOR
PREMISES ORIGINALLY REQUIRED*  %      Actue Goo
SURFACES A CONSTRUIRE POUR LES
INSTITUTION               LOCAUX PREVUS'               Constructloon Areas for
ETA0LISSEMENTS                                    OIF                 OIF OIF
Aopralsa  Architecturel  Anv Agree  Ras'lion*  Completed Facilities
Worksheatm
Programme architectural  Modificatlons  2/1  Surfaces bruts conmuulte   3/1  3/2
i ivaluatlon
1               2                    3
Primary Teacher                                     _                   _
Training Colleges/       .__
ENIA    __              _  _ __ _ _ -_   __ __                                 -_ _
Garoiia                  397         __9                     3595       +10
Nkongsamba                1055                               1065-  l 06' 
Kumba              -_2042                __,_=_1915
Secondary Teacher
Training Colleee/                                      =                   =   =
ENS Yaounde                4051            7800                7800       ±42     Q
Demonstration Upper
Secnndary Schnl            432_                                            _
LA Yaounde                 4312_____                           4442       +03
Technical Upper                                        =                   =_=
Secondarv School/        _____
LT Garoua                  4603                                4786       tO4
Technical Lower                 _             __.
Secondary School/.
CET Douala            nPfprrp    nT        prnjpj-/Tran fer Troisieme Proi; t
Adult Vocational 
Traininz Center/__
QENAFOP l)otlala           3459           :                'L421           n
De   pi/vi 198 sagreed between theGovernment and lORID/IDA    Sheet 1of    1Shiaet$
Tel que convenu antre la Gouvwrnemont et la BIRD/AI  paoe  de  page



- 39 -                      ANNEX 6
Country: Cameroon               COMPLETION STUDY                   IBRD/IDA Education Projects
Pays.  Cameroun                    ACHEVEMENT                      Projets Education BIRD/AID
Project: Education 2  Comparison of Enrollments Originally                     Form
Projet:                 Planned for, Enrollments Actually                      Fiche  IV
Cr    Noit-           Made Available and Actual Enrollments/
diN       320-CM_
Credit:No°           Comparaison entre les Effectifs Prgvus,
*A:
Ceux Fournis et les Effectifs Reels
PROJECT ITEM      Enrollments    | Enrollments      %    ACTUALCURRENT   %    %
PLANNED FOR    MADE AVAILABLE
ELEMENT DU PROJET     Effectifs        Effectifs     DIF    ENROLLMENT     DIF DIF
PREVL4G         FOURNIS
Institution     (Appraisal Worksheets) (Completed Construction) 2/1  EFFECTIFS REELS  3/1 3/2
Etablissoment   (Programme architectural)  (Construction achevee)
2                     3
Primary Teacher
Training Colleges/                        __ =               ___=___=_
I_ Garoua    _  _210 __210                                O          263      *25  +25
|__Nkongsamba           _     210_ __          _____ _       _      233       +11, +11
_______        _          ___ __                           _           -+7
-Secondary Teacher-_   __      ,_.__ _                                            _ _
Tra.ining collegeL- _    _      _       _  _   _     __     _
ENS _Yasunde        ____     850-_           850   _             & 700       -18  -I
__ ~  ~   __                    __oo                .                  _-§6o    2
emnntratlion -Tpp -___r                __      _       ___
Secondary Schonol _I                                        _                     -
T_T C_r_               _    _          _2          ___     _        290 
Techilcal Lowe    __________            _________ _           ____    ____
Technical Lower______                                              _
Secondary School/        ._    _  _            _   _ _             _
CET J1ua I a             Deferred to 'hird Prj&ct/TrnDf ,r      Trni-,iZeme PXO_et
Adult Vocational       _.           _             _        _.
TrainnrlgCenterL ----                                  - __ ___.- _____
CRNAFOP nnliila              250       _     2sin        n   v1riih1p 1-40
_  _ _  _  ____  __________                           (shnouldi increan  e  I
_           ___ _ _ _  -_      _ ___    __            _     :_ -  o full enroll-  -
_  ___   __   _ ,       _ _ _     _~~ngn-1after star_
_______      ____     ____         ___               ____  __    aZe.sa -__
Sheet    of     Sheets
Date  April/AvriJL1983                                                   L      1
Page    de      pages



CAHEOON - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 32O-CM)/CAMEROUN -DEUXEIaI      PROSE? EDUCATION (Ce.dit 320-CO)      IMPLEPIENTATION ECMUDLE/CALVDItIER D'EXECUTION
Caledar Year/Amode Civile                              1972           1973         1974            1975           T57W 
Prolect Componants/Elments du proe                 ]Z1=4I III                                    ]iIi           iiIf                                   ~    7I]]              i1L          Y7fJ          7J7~]Ij
PRitiRT TRAiNER TMIAIUNG COLLEOESIE.lq.I.A.
CAROUJA - Constretlon                                                            ______
EqUlOusnr-Fursnurtla/Equipament-Mob, SIIer                          I
SEpciElint Scrvlces/Serviceo de spcitalistes                                  24I 
NKIAI-SC-tr-tCostruction....
Equipnent-Pu.nituretEq.ipcmet-Mwoil-L,r
Specialist Serviceee/Eervies de npdclailorea 
BEGUVDMYn TEACHER TRATNENG COLL~EGE /t.N. S.
Equtpmen.tTurc iture /Equipement-M.bl1i-
DmD1STRATTON UPPER, SECONDARY SCHOOL/                      IliI
TAOIIND - Cmepstuetion
TT.MWIMNCJ TPPLER_SEN9!!ARY SCHOOL/YETCNQU                                                                                                                         l
GAPJOA - C..ntreuetlon......1 
TPrWNTCAL TOWER SECNDARY SCHOOL/CE.?.Tranof                                                                      od to 3rd pro octiTransih6 lme projet
MuiAtA - C.n.rut-tonI
Equipmnet- Yurniture/Equtpe,nent-Hobilier                 I   I 
ADULT VOCATIONAL TRAINING CEjATE/CE.RA.PO.P.              I -I    II
DOCALA - Canstrueclon                                          -.                                                  .    ......
Equilpmenc-P.r.ltur./Equipement-Hobhll.er
SpeiOalist Services/Services de updIoilistss            u4aI .      I
Fsllovshtps/Eourses                                                                                                                                                                                  6
PREMINVSTM    STUIES/ETUES DE PREINVESTISS K                U I.Z2 I o
Agricultural Education 4 Rural. Iratnit4tg/...aigns.      I 
meanE agricols at formastion rurals
Technical & Vocational Education toj the Nortbern                  LiI
lesuiunnleloairnem    techonique at professiosmel                        r
dame is Nord
PzJLm    UIT/BUREALDU     d!I
UechEceeu/Arehitectm
PrOUuremenc Specialist/SpieiIista an pass_tlss
de cErchda                                                                                36
(Technical Rd. Sper./Spde. enaeialft. tEchnique)              I     In.s
LgABmd/ljgsnda: Upper Bar - Appraisal sraimiate/Rarre supdrieure      Prdvaison I 1 dvaluation. lnitialc.  tower tar -Actual or Latest Ealaamte/Barre InfUrieure aMedl do .timtj_hn          I.&lu  ricente.
(On the left/A Rauche) Design and Preparotion of Protursuant Procsdures/Pr/parstion de. opAeifieariona et do is procddure de passetion de contiat.
.   .....ProeuremenE/Procddure de pasasaios de contest.
______  (On the right or alone/A droaIn On seule) Contract lIoplemestatlnn/Exdcucion do contest.



"  II  AIu I0   A  II   of tp
Co-enant Status:  H - met                            tlUtAl I 1  IVI%Iou                         Count ry:   N
1 * not met                    Compliance with Credltilman ARreement Covenants        PreJect: Cr. 320-CM?
P - pending                              1. Kolor Covenants                            ate  May, 1983
of Cr .loa         Covenant                   Status           Coeonte                           Action Taken or Required
2.02      'lorrower to make no withdrawal or    M  Draft legal status and regulation  See para. 3.22 (a)
account of expenditures for the          were commented and conditionally
Adult Vocational Guidance and            agreed upon by IDA before the sta
Training Center in Douala until          of construction; however construcl
the Association shall have approved      ion was completed and equipment
its legal status and regulations.        mostly delivered before they were
finalized and enacted.
3.01      (b) Borrower to maintain Project      M  The Project Unit was maintained al  See paras. 3.22 (b) and 3.23
Unit with responsibilities as            expanded within the Ministry of Ed -
specified in Schedule 4.                 cation, however its efficient ope
ration was restricted by frequent
turnover, delayed appointments, oc
casionally lack of motivation and/
or competence, and insufficient
operating funds.(see paras. 3.01-
3.05).
4.04      Borrower to establish, by October 1,  N The legislation creating governin    See para. 3.22 (c)
1975, or any other agreed date,          boards for all secondary technical
governing boards for the technical       schools, including representation
schools in Garoua and Douala, with       of local industry and business,
adequate representation of local         was signed on November 21, 1980.
industry and business.                   However not all governing boards
have been appointed, including th
one in Garoua; given the lack of
industry in the North, it would be
difficult to have strong industri-
al representation on such a board.
The governing board for Douala                                  m z
was created in early 1981.                                         X
0



WtSTEI(N AiMLA PROILC1'S
Covenant Status: It - met                             EDUfCATION DIVISlIN                      Country: CAMEROON
N * not met                      Compliance with Credit/Loan Alreement Covenants   Project: Cr. 320-CM
P - pending                               1. Otter Covenants                       Date:  May, 1983
tect ion No.
of Cf./Ln.  Covenant                       Status         Cants                            Action Taken or Required
4.02    Borrower to maintain and repair      N   Maintenance and repair budgets are See para. 3.27
all project-financed buildings,          generally insufficient and project,
furniture and equipment, and to          financed buildings and equipment
keep maintenance records.                are not adequately maintained or
repaired. Maintenance records
are not kept. (See para. 3.15).
4.03    Borrower to operate project-financed  M  Education objectives have changed            n.a.
institutions so as to promote its        since project appraisal.  As a
educational objectives, and to           consequence, the upper secondary
provide experienced and qualified        school in Yaounde has become a
staff in adequate numbers.               bilingual school instead  of a
school specializing in the provi-
sion of practice teaching opportu-
nities for teachers in training. A
Inew decreeset up the ENI, ENIA
teacher training programs of one,
two or three years, depending on
the entrance level. Project
schools are generally staffed
adequately. Also, the expected
educational reforms on which this
project was based never materi-
alized.
4.05    Borrower to allocate a sufficient    N   ENS is not yet fully enrolled be-- See para. 3.22 (d)
number of scholarships to the            cause of budgetary constraints
higher teachers college (ENS) to         regarding the scholarship program                                X z
ensure its full enrollment.               (see para. 5.15).                                                 > 
0



Cauntrr Camerocon/CamerounM/D                                                                                                                                        dcainPoet
Pays                                                                                                                                                        IRAAEuto rlt
COMPARISON OF ORICINiALLY ESTIMATIED COSTS AND ACTUAL COST IN  000  CFAF     (Net of taxes)                  Prom,n Education BIRD/AID
P'nIwt  Education 2
MISK                                                                                                                        F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  orm o i
VW    N   32-                                         COMPARAISON ENTAELIES COUTS PAEVUSET EFFECTIFE EN_   000  DE __FCTA-  (Hors taxes)                     Fd..
CONSTRUCTION ANDOSITE DEELPMENT  FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT        PRIOPESSIONAL PEER         TECHNICAL ASSiSTANCE               TOTAL
coNSTRuCTION ET VRO3/       MOILERETEU0EMNTINRAIeS                                    ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
EVKLO  ET E.Ull....T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOSRIE5bo
-1-0-  A.-I %  P_ F                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~PM'4. FIouA.aiin   Piao a IJ..IsnI.                           A-c IjoooIc
ELEMENT DlU PROJET     Sod C  nIns ltd  Co1o1E.6 O  oti  Ecci ContiG I.o: COOO  Efno  Dif  End Cantin  Rd1 Combs9.  ENOt  E.d COOIOR  'I.. Coro .  EtOontft  Oi l End  Costing "-I  Ottooi. 
in  a   c0          /   rs001   11!n22              10  O    1111  0        3/2  h,,,  tOl 100y32             loIn,no  I,lmVP/
_______________________                                                  A S A L   31A04     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4   1139   0  -   100  226986 1281104)   3010)  5-L -1 " 9  ~01 -0  A  01- -7
?79  7 ,,a  ig29 -'A in      'I'I 77  L_ g       2899      0.   1     5  f    80 47L A_T 324 A
96 81 12 fil  94  7  7  44      40  9A =28  19- 3L04  A72J 752-..649 t 3  -1 9 441  22 89S9    -i0nn 171 555 216 403 146 747 
DiE Yaoundb         iA~~~~~~~~2fl 13LA83 ~~~~~u   54  1 493  760  0052 - 2    20 -673  24 628 25378    3                           -  -   938 339 167 452 391j
1A Yaound       ________           549_  -    6  307 945-541 44 798   550     795         1091.1191 753            3  --        -       -215 438           275 038 464 
T-hnieal 1- ~    ~       9.r5 2...& 1d.0ry q,h-71 89                         6611 697     25-347 _26_635  3   --        -      -      -314 834 .401..or 519 631 J
CEr Douala             q17 90    28 160 Mucat In    41    0517 917 (Edur-ati n 3: 17 753  2149     5J00   9--           -       -      -6215726-
CENAFOP Donala        118 125 ~~~~~~~~~153 219 38472  £025Q -118 762 340 966 -187 122 223  1&-561  1 50-0o5-  1 1 5622  T616    0600  ~I  45 995 42f 728 1003 700  I
Preinvestment Studie-                             -       -        - tu-dea pr_ - _31 704                         IT24T3   35 850     31 704   37343   35 85  - 
P-ject Unit/Rurea__ilu__Y o_et_                                                                           --28 6 7.58 322-  6709  34 261 iro  3fs  4i§31022        t
I'                          1444 Ill 1142577144311   23 814 230 1006 542 75jj 19 __,  17 542  140_027 73.501  2 263 971  309 320 433_111I  4 Z310 000 2900 oon31o fl£BU *2_
TfAwithout/sans Ci Douala/           17-9i 7, 7        46 395 470 488 625 758 897  55 li   o  j~    j a.L_501  -6 63 971   309 _320  433 111I4  707796 2143 896i     g
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                -    -                 -         -       S1O6   9 90  062
without/sans CET Onuala    ~~~~~~~837 584 793 547 s-5  1006 542 75-0662  25    _    140_02713.        2        -0920      4112Tf                       114 821 
_____                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ -1  -  032  fl6  160 ..931          1133
*without/sans_CET DonaLa -     3       7054229      547  1102324523 5410800                            137 00 16       3    9-3209  4.633 ill2           3         _33
____                ____     ___~~~~~~~~~~~A -L -_  T509 166b82                                                                 1 
To'without/sans CeT Doualat 3     668   47      3 7233  165      -   1 910   28.934I 53 -  40     _508_    5ng   0- _1   2   1-3209   1_604 # 3 -j41               8238
IDA Financing/Financement - IDA  3 309                               '547-                    T-209~~~-  f-6  1F3~_964C             2O9
ifla CredlrICrtAl,- mA                                                                                            -                 ...    -    9000   .8372.1 2-3935--- _113  2  7.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 2   8 9 3 .                                          _2 8  2
-V  ----Z.336  065 ----7-                                                                                  -1-         a4'
UEdwouOlrigon  LSStOO0   CFAF 255.8  Average  UOsi Do-  CEAF 251.7                                                      Sh-'  1  .1    Sh.
oats.AgriijAnitl9Bt.  Taocdoi±is.pAttioSu.tlon ldoflocEU-  255,~~~8 FCA  oyan  -dioE  251.7 FCFA  /3  Except cost of architectural design work0  q   0      q
2/ VRD - Voirie et rgseaux divers                                               included/sauf ciut conception architecturale, inclue.
/4Construction ENS 100% financed by Govtu/financde
par Gouvernement



THE WORLD RANK INTF HNATIONAL F INANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
- 44 -
DATF   April 14, 1983                                              ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
TO   Mr. A. Benbrahim, WA 2 (D 314)
FROM   Geraldine Prefontaine, LOAD I
EXTENSION  61167
SUBJECT Credit 320 CM - Second Education Project
Disbursements on Credit 320 CM were completed on January 17,
1983 with the cancellation of $761,763.22. The actual amounts
disbursed under the proceeds of the Credit are as follows: .
Category     Description                  Allocation          Actual
Disbursement
I        Part A of the
Project
(a)  Civil Works            $ 2,530,000       $ 3,232,731.98
(b)  Consultants'               460,000           508,522.23
and other
Specialists'
services (other
than under II
below)
(c)  Equipment                2,770,000         2,261,242.44
(d)  Furniture                  390,000           553,176.63
II       Part B of the
Project
(a)  Specialists'               110,000           113,722.26
services for
Pre-Investbient
Study
(b)  Specialists'                40,000            43,493.15
services for a
pre-investment
study of tech-
nical and voca-
tional education
requirements in
the Northern
region



- 45 -                    ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Cc)  Specialists'               690,000          873,169.84
services and
fellowships re-
lated to the
Project institu-
tions
(d) Project Unit
(i)  Specialists'          228,000          573,434.07
services
(ii) Furniture and          22,000           78,744.18
equipment
III      Unallocated                  1,760,000                 -
9,000,000.00
Cancelled 1/17/83              761,763.22
$8,238,236.78     $ 8,238,236.78
File: 320 CM - Permanent File
cc: Mr. C. Duval (N 616)
Mr. A. Papineau (F 309)
Mr. S. Kapur (OED) H 6089
Ms. Khoury
Ms. Prefontaine
Chron
W. Africa Info. Center (F 336)
GPrefontaine/cl



- 46 -
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS                 ANNEX 11
AS OF January 17. 1983
COUNTRY: CAMEROON (CREDIT 320-CM)
ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMENTS IN.MILLIONS    OF        ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD/IDA                   U.S. DOLLAR EQUIVALENT                    AS A PERCENTAGE OF
FISCAL                                                              APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
YEAR AND     ACTUAL TOTAL    APPRAISAL    LATEST         NEW         (UP TO LATEST QUARTER)
QUARTER    DISBURSEMENT     ESTIMATE     REVISED    DISBURSEMENT    DISBUOR NEW ESTIMATE OF
QAE DSUET ESTIMATE . ESTIMATE  CENTAGE OF APPRAISAL
ESTIMATE (FOR FUTURE
QUARTERS) (1+ 2) x 100
OR (4+-2) x 100
1973                             0.0
1974                             0.4
1975                             1.5
1976                             7.3
1977              3.0            8.5                                             35
1978              4.5            8.9                                             51
1979              5.4            9.0                                             60
1980    1         5.9                                                            66
2         6.1                                                           68
3         6.2                                                            69
4         6.3                                                            70
1981    1         6.3                                                            70
2         6.4                                                           71
3         6.4                                                           71
4         6.5                                                           72
1982    1         6.5                                                            72
2         6.9                                                           77
3         6.9                                                           77
4         7.3                        7.5                                81
1983    1         7.4                        8.3                                82
2         8.2                        8.5                                91
3   Cancelled: 0.8  January 17, 1983)                                    9
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979                   Present Closing Date: June 30, 1982



- 47 -
ANNEX 12
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Capacity and Enrollments at Project Teacher Training Colleges/
Capacite et Effectifs aux ENI& ENS du Projet - 1976-1983
1977                           Enrollments/Effectifs
Capacity/     1976/  1977/  1978/  1979/  1980/   1981/  1982/
Capacite        77     78     79     80     81     82      83
ENI-ENIA Nkongsamba        210         142     154    156    166    172    179    233
ENI-ENIA Kumba             210          97      91    106     93     90    107    225
ENI Garoua            210          -     120     119    129    165    244    263
ENS Yaounde           850                572    448     566    671    682



- 48 -
ANNEX 13
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Lycee Bilingue, Yaoundg: Enrollments/Effectifs,
1977/78-1981/82
Year/          French Section/             English Section/          Total
Annee          Section frangaise           Section anglaise
1977/78              1521                          82                  1603
1978/79              1080                         127                  1207
1979/80               857                         111                   968
1980/81               923                         135                  1058
1981/82               893                         163                  1056



- 49 -
ANNEX 14
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Lycee Technique, Garoua: Enrollments by Section/
Effectifs par Section, 1978/79-1982/83
Year/           Technical-Industrial/       Clerical-Management/          Total
Annee           Technique-Industriel        Commercial-Gestion
1978/79                    60                          -                      60
1979/80                   118                         144                    262
1980/81                   116                         141                    257
1981/82                   110                         158                    268
1982/83                   131                         159                    290



- 50 -
ANNEX 15
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Lycee Technique, Garoua: Examination Results by Section/
Resultats aux Examens par Section, 1978/79-1981/82
Year     Baccalaureate, Preliminary Examinations/      Baccalaureate, Final Examinations/
Annee                   Probatoire                               Baccalaureat
Industrial/             Clerical/           Industrial/           Clerical/
Industriel              Commercial          Industriel            Commercial
1978/79           -                      36%                   -                   31%
1979/80          68%                     49%                  63%                  47%
1980/81          80%                     61%                  56%                  79%
1981/82          88%                     54%                  46%                  35%



- 51 -
ANNEX 16
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIENE PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
Lycge Technique, Garoua: Evolution of Teaching Staff since 1977/
Evolution des Effectifs du Corps Enseignant depuis 1977
ENSEIGNEMENT         1977    1978     1979    1980    1981    1982
GENERAL
- Anglais                   1       3       3       2        2       1
- FrangaispPhilo            1       2       2       3       3        2
- Mathematiques             0       0       2       4       3        3
- Physique                  1       1       1       3        2       2
- EPS                       2       2       1       2       2        3
- Histoire,Ggographie       0       1       3       2       2        1
- Enseignement Menager      1       1       1        1       1       1
ENSEIGNEMENT
PROFESSIONNEL
- Droit                     1       1       1        1       1       1
- S.T.A.                    1       1       2       2       2        1
- S.T.E.                    4       4       4       4       4       4
- F 1 Fabrication Mecan.    0       0       2       4       3       4
- F 3 Electrotechnique      1       2       2       3       3        3
- F 4 Genie Civil           1       2       2       3       4       3
- Dessin de Construction    1       0       2       1       2       2
- Textile                   1       1       1       0       0       0
TOTAUX                16      21      29      35      34      31



- 52 -
ANNEX 17
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
CENAFOP: Calculation of Training Fees/
Calcul du Cout de la Formation
Parameters used in the calculation
Ti    : Average hourly salary of an instructor
Tp    : Cost of technical and support service staff
Id    : Allowance cost for all personnel
P     : Training courses preparation cost
H     : Duration of training courses (in hours)
D     : Travel costs in connection with training within industry
N     : Number of trainees
K     : Constant of operating and equipment costs (according to field of
specialization)
The training fees are calculated by using the following formula:
I-
IC  =   1,05 H (T. + P  + NT  + NI ) + N (HK + D)
i.   s     p     d
- tariff applied to firms
- weighting for each firm is very subjective



- 53 -
ANNEX 18
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
CENAFOP: Job Analyses/Liste des Analyses
de Situation Professionnelle
3.10/10        Gasoline and diesel engine mechanics
3.10/11        Auto mechanics - parts
3.10/12        Auto mechanics - injection
3.10/13        Automotive electricity
3.10/21        Turning
3.10/22        Grinding
3.10/24        Milling
3.10/34a       Oxy-acetylene welding
3.10/34b       Electric arc welding with covered electrodes
3.10/34c       Metal electric arc welding
3.10/34d       Electric arc welding using non-consumable electrodes
3.10/37        Sheet metal work laying out
3.10/38        Industrial piping and fitting
3.10/40        Industrial electricity
3.10/51a       Electronics - Radio - TV - Audio
3.10/Sib       Black and white TV repair
3.10/52        Industrial electronics



- 54 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 3
CAMEROON - CREDIT 320-CM
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT - COMPLETION/
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION - ACHEVEMENT
CENAFOP: Instructional Modules/
Liste d'Unites Modulaires Editees
Auto Mechanics/Mecanique Automobile
3.22/11 - 1.  Controle et reglage du circuit d'allumage
2.  Contr6le de l'alimentation
3.  Contr8le et reglage des soupapes
4.  Controle et calage de la distribution
5.  Contr8le et reglage de la carburation
6.  Controle et entretien du circuit de graissage
7. Entretien du circuit de refroidissement
8. Contr8le et verification du bloc-moteur
9. Revision de la culasse
9. Ad. Differents types de culasse
10. Remontage d'un moteur
11. Deshabillage - demontage - nettoyage d'un moteur
12. Revision d'une boite de vitesse-mecanique
13. Revision du pont
3.22/12 - 1.  Controle et tarage des injecteurs
2. Calage d'une pompe d'injection
3. Branchement et purge du circuit d'alimentation
2. Ad. 1 - Methodes de calage d'une pompe CAV ou roto-diesel
type DPA
2. Ad. 2 - Calage d'une pompe BOSCH type EP/VA
Automotive Electricity/Electricite Automobile
3.22/13 - 1. Controle et depannage d'un circuit de charge par alternateur
2. Controle, depannage et installation des circuits d'eclairage
3. Contr8le des batteries (accumulateurs au plomb)
Turning/Tournage
3.22/21 - 1. Filetage triangulaire exterieur par penetration droite simple
2. Tournage conique extgrieur par orientation du chariot porte-
outil ou d'une directrice
3. Tournage conique interieur par orientation du chariot porte-
outil ou d'une directrice
4. Tournage conique exterieur par excentration de la contre-
poupge



- 55 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
Milling/Fraisage
3.22/22 - 1.  Fraisage des surfaces perpendiculaires et paralleles
2.  Fraisage des rainures simples
3.  Fraisage des rainures en queue d'aronde
4.  Fraisage des rainures en Te
5.  Fraisage des faces obliques
6.  Fraisage des epaulements et des tenons
Grinding/Aff'tage
3.22/24 - 1. Affuitage en bout d'une fraise deux tailles
Sheet Metal Work/Chaudronnerie
3.22/33 - 1.  Pliage des toles
2. Decoupage des t8les
3. Oxycoupage des t8les - coupes droites et coupes circulaires
4. Redressage des profiles
5. Fabrication d'une auge
6. Fabrication d'une piece tronconique
7. Cintrage des tuyaux
Welding/Soudure
3.22/34 - 1.  Soudage electrique a l'arc - Rechargement
2.  Soudage O.A. en tuyauterie industrielle
3.  Soudage A.E. a plat sur bords droits
4.  Soudage A.E. a plat sur bords chaufreines
5.  Soudage A.E. a plat en angle interieur
6.  Soudage A.E. bord a bord, en corniche
7.  Soudage A.E. bout a bout en angles, vertical montant et descendant
8.  Soudage A.E., soudage des fontes
9. Soudage A.E., horizontal, au plafond, a plat sur angle exterieur
10. Soudage A.E. des tubes en acier
11. Soudage O.A. avec ou sans metal d'apport
12. Soudo-lavage en angle intgrieur
Structural Steel Work/Charpente Metallique
3.22/35 - 1.  Construction d'un escalier droit
2.  Construction d'un escalier helicoldal
3.  Construction d'un poteau et d'une ferme
Laying out/Tragage
3.22/37 - 1. Coude en 2 segments
2. Coude deporte
3. Coude en S en 4 segments
4. Coude cylindrique a 900 en 4 segments



- 56 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
5. Culotte cylindrique en 5 segments
6. Intersection de 2 cylindres de meme diametre
7. Intersection de 2 cylindres de diamatres differents
8. Developpement d'un cylindre oblique a base circulaire,
I'axe est quelconque
9. Surface cylindrique quelconque ayant un axe de sym8trie
10. Intersection d'un cylindre droit et d'un cylindre oblique
11. Intersection d'un cylindre oblique avec un cylindre de
revolution; l'axe du cylindre oblique est quelconque
12. Raccordement cylindrique oblique de 2 cylindres, axes dans
2 plans orthogonaux
13. Raccordement oblique de 2 cylindres, axes situes dans 2
plans horizontaux
El ectr ic ity/tElectr icit e
3.22/40 - 1.  Identification d'un moteur glectrique
2. Demarreurs de moteurs asynchrones
3.  Schemas glectriques
4. Mesures electriques
5. Equipement de force motrice
Electronics/Electronique
3.22/51 - 1. Execution d'une soudure
2. Controle et maintenance d'un haut-parleur dans un appareil



