CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 321 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 321 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Office des Postes et
T9lcommunications de la Republique du Mali (hereinafter called the OPTM) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the OPTM the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the OPTM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the OPTM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes the schedule to the Project Agreement; and


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the OPTM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
any schedules or annexes to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand
dollars ($3,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of (i) expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (ii) expenditures for services
described under Category VI of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
unless and until the Borrower, after using its best efforts to obtain other financial
assistance for such services in the form of a grant, shall not have succeeded prior
to December 31, 1972 or to such later date as may be agreed to by the Association.
In the event such efforts are successful, the amount of the Credit allocated to
such Category VI shall be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1982 and ending January 15, 2022 each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The OPTM is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Provision of Funds
Section 3.01. (a) 'Aithout any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the OPTM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations of the OPTM therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the OPTM
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the OPTM
for 20 years, including 4 years of grace, and at the rate of interest of 7-1/4 per
cent per annum, under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
the OPTM containing terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association. Such period of grace may be extended by agreement between
the Borrower, the Association and the OPTM.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
Section 3.02. Pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) above, the Borrower shall make
such arrangements satisfactory to the Association as shall be necessary to (i) ensure
the availability to the Telecommunications Department of the OPTM of adequate
working capital; (ii) ensure that a plan is established and submitted to the
Association for the settling of the deficits of the Postal and Financial Department
of the OPTM prior to 1968, and for restoring the financial position of such
Department to good order by appropriate measures, including the setting off of
such deficits against amounts owed to the Treasury; (iii) cover at the end of each
fiscal year beginning with 1972, any deficit arising from the operations of such
Department; and (iv) ensure the prompt payment by the Borrower of charges of
the OPTM for services rendered to the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views dhrough their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the perfor ance by the OPTM      of its rl --itions under the Project
Agreement and the Sr- idiary Loan Agreement, the ad., -iistration, operations and
financial condition of ae OPTM and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Bo, rwer responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the OPTM
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the OPTM of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿8
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The OPTM shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the OPTM under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the OPTM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   Ordonnance No. 62/PG-RM dated November 29, 1960 or the Annex
thereto as amended and supplemented by Law No. 65-10/AN-RM dated
March 13, 1965, or Decree No. 383 dated December 28, 1960, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the OPTM to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the OPTM; or
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
OPTM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the OPTM, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary administrative and governmental action;


﻿9
(c)   the engineering consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of the
Project Agreement have been employed;
(d)   arrangements satisfactory  to the Association for the continued
employment of a qualified and experienced financial adviser to the OPTM for its
accounting organization have been made; and
(e)   arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been made to set
off (i) the deficits of the Telecommunications Department prior to 1968 and (ii)
unpaid charges for telecommunications services rendered to the Borrower by the
OPTM through December 31, 1971, against the amount due to the Borrower by
the OPTM in respect of telecommunications as of December 31, 1971.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the OPTM, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the OPTM in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the OPTM,
respectively, and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and
of the OPTM in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 1, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02 and
4.02 (a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the
Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
Minifinances
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Telex:
440098 (ITT) or
24423 (RCA)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
esentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Seydou Traord
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Equipment and                 '716,000            100% of foreign
Services for                                      expenditures and
Parts A and B                                     45% of local
of the Project                                    expenditures
II.   Equipment and               2,173,000             100% of foreign
Services for                                      expenditures and
Parts C and D                                     45% of local
of the Project                                    expenditures
III.  Vehicles, tools               125,000             100% of foreign
materials and                                     expenditures and
and miscellaneous                                 45% of local
works                                             expenditures
IV.   Civil Works                   198,000            54% of total
expenditures
V.    Consultants'                   98,000             100% of foreign
Services                                          expenditures
VI.   Services of                   100,000             100% of foreign
Expert in                                         expenditures
organization and
management
VII. Unallocated                    190,000
TOTAL             3,600,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
,he Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
an( a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿13
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of foreign expenditures under Category IV
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the OPTM's 1972-1975 telecommunications program,
which includes the planning and implementation of certain institutional reforms,
as well as rehabilitating and expanding the principal local and long-distance
telecommunications facilities through procurement and construction and erection
works, as follows:
A.    the rehabilitation of existing switching equipment, the addition of
1,000 lines of switching equipment to the Bamako automatic telephone
exchange, and the replacement of manual equipment in five provincial
towns by 1,300 lines of automatic switching equipment;
B.    the expansion of cable distribution and subscriber facilities to provide
for approximately 2,500 additional direct exchange connections and
the rehabilitation of existing cable distribution and subscriber facilities;
C.    the construction of a microwave link between Bamako, Segou, San
and Mopti, with multiplexing equipment and trunk switching
equipment for 60 channels, expandable to 960;
D.    the rehabilitation of open-wire routes and the expansion by VHF of
spur routes originating from towns along the microwave link; and
E.    the planning and implementation of a modern system of accounts and
of collection of charges for services; the revaluation of assets and the
carrying out of a study of the levels and structure of OPTM's tariffs
for telecommunications services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


