CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 321 MLI
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE LA
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 321 MLI
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE LA
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1972, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU
MALI (hereinafter called the OPTM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand ($3,600,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the OPTM agree to undertake certain obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the OPTM, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the OPTM on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS the OPTM, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The OPTM shall carry out the Project, described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿4
in conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the OPTM in the procurement of goods
and services required to carry out the Project, the supervision of the works included
in the Project and the reorganization of the system of accounting of the OPTM,
the OPTM shall employ engineering consultants and financial consultants, both
acceptable to the Association and in each case upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The OPTM shall also employ under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association three technical advisers acceptable to the Association to advise
it on, and assist it in training personnel in, day-to-day operations in the fields
of switching, transmission and local networks, for such periods as shall be agreed
between the Association and the OPTM.
Section 2.03. In carrying out the constructions and works for the facilities
included inthe Project, the OPTM shall employ contractors and suppliers acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Such
terms and conditions shall include adequate provisions for the training of personnel
of the OPTM in the maintenance of such facilities.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants and advisers) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The OPTM undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
OPTM to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the OPTM shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) The OPTM shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The OPTM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The OPTM shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
OPTM shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the OPTM
Section 3.01. (a) The OPTM shall at all times conduct its operations in
accordance with sound technical, financial and administrative practices and under
qualified and experienced management and staff.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the OPTM shall
employ for three years a qualified and experienced expert in organization and
management acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 3.01 above, the OPTM shall
conduct a review of its requirements for personnel and for the training of personnel
and shall, at the beginning of 1974, consult and exchange views with the Association
on the results thereof with a view to reaching agreement on the implementation
of the measures shown by such reviews to be necessary or appropriate. Until
such agreement, the OPTM shall not increase the numbers of its non-technical and
administrative personnel of its Telecommunications Department.


﻿6
Section 3.03. The OPTM shall, before any transfers of net profit to the
Borrower, ensure an adequate level of reserves for future expansion.
Section 3.04. The OPTM shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The OPTM shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition. Accounts and financial statements of the OPTM, beginning
with those for the fiscal year 1972, shall show separately the operating results
and financial position of the Telecommunications Department.
Section 4.02. (a) Beginning in respect of the year 1972, the OPTM shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the OPTM and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)   The documents and information required under paragraph (a) of this
Section in respect of the fiscal year 1972 need not be submitted to the Association
prior to June 30, 1974.
Section 4.03. The OPTM, with the assistance of the financial consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 (a), shall, by the end of 1973, reorganize its accounting
system, and by the end of June 1973, inventory and revalue its assets and revise
its policies and procedures for collections of charges, all in accordance with sound
commercial principles of management, budgeting, costing and depreciation of assets
based on the useful lives thereof.
Section 4.04. During the carrying out of the Project, the OPTM shall not:


﻿7
(a)   modify its tariffs applicable to telecommunications services without
prior consultation with the Association; or
(b)   undertake any capital expenditures for telecommunications, other than
under the Project, in excess of the equivalent of $75,000 in any year unless the
Association shall have approved a financing plan therefor.
Section 4.05. Immediately upon the availability of the necessary data
resulting from the reorganization carried out pursuant to Section 4.03 above, the
OPTM   shall review the structure and levels of its domestic telecommunications
tariffs in consultation with the Association.
Section 4.06. (a) Beginning in respect of the year 1977, the OPTM shall,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary, including
making any appropriate adjustments in its telecommunication tariffs, to provide
revenue suff*cient for its Telecommunications Department to produce an annual
rate of return of not less than 10%.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)          the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by relating net income for that year to the average
of the net values of fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year;
(ii)        the term  "net income" means all telecommunications revenue,
except dividend and interest income from long-term investments,
less all operating expenses;
(iii)       the   term  "operating   expenses" includes: direct costs of
operation, administration, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses, straight-line depreciation based on the useful life of
assets and taxes (if any), but does not include interest and other
charges on debt; and
(iv)        the term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of fixed assets in operation less accumulated depreciation,
all determined in accordance with methods of valuation and
revaluation acceptable to the Association and the OPTM.
Section 4.07. In order to ensure the availability as and when needed of funds
necessary for the carrying out of the Project and for the importation of materials


﻿8
and supplies for the maintenance of telecommunications equipment, the OPTM
shall maintain a special bank account in its own name into which it will deposit
quarterly in advance the funds, other than the proceeds of the Credit, necessary
for the purpose.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association and the OPTM shall otherwise agree,
the OPTM shall not incur any debt for its telecommunications operations unless
its net revenue from such operations for the fiscal year next preceding such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever revenue is the greater, shall be at least one and one-half times the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
incurred by the OPTM for such operations, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or guarantee
agreement providing for such debt.
(iii)       "Net revenue from telecommunications operations" means gross
revenue from all such sources, adjusted to take account of rates
for telecommunications services in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though such rates were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve months' period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating and administrative expenses,
including provision for taxes, if any, and transfers of net profits
to the Borrower, if any, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
OPTM for the purpose of servicing such debt.


﻿9
Section 4.09. Except as the Association and the OPTM shall otherwise agree,
the OPTM shall not incur any short-term debt for its telecommunications operations
if such debt, together with all other outstanding short-term debt for such operations,
would exceed three-months' average operating expenses for such operations during
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or during a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater. For the purpose of this
Section:
(i)         "Short-term debt" means any debt, including the use of public
checking account funds, maturing by its terms within one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred; and
(ii)        "Operating expenses" means all operating and administrative
expenses, including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the OPTM shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the OPTM shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the OPTM and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the OPTM shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the OPTM of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The OPTM shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the OPTM and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿10
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the OPTM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-one years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly so notify the OPTM.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Telex:
440098 (ITT) or
24423 (RCA)


﻿11
For the OPTM
Office des Postes et T614communications
de la R6publique du Mali
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
Ofipostel
Bamako
Telex:     993
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the OPTM, and under the Development Credit Agreement by the OPTM on
behalf of the Borrower, shall be taken or executed by the Manager of the OPTM
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
(b)  The OPTM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority, and the authenticated specimen signature, of each person who will act
under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
By /s/ Seydou Traor6
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the OPTM    shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the OPTM shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the engineering
consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations of the said
consultants for award and the reasons for the intended award. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the OPTM and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    (a)   With respect to any other contract, the OPTM     shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the OPTM and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿13
(b)   In respect of small quantities of materials, tools and miscellaneous
services the costs of which are so low as to be of no interest to foreign suppliers,
or where the advantages of international competitive bidding would be outweighed
by the administrative burden, the usual procedures of the Borrower for the
procurement of goods and services for public utilities shall apply.


