CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 320 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 320 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,        dated    June    28,    1972,    between    UNITED
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit Director" means the person referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Project Unit" means the Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(c)   "ENS" means the Ecole Normale Supgrieure in Yaoundd referred to
in Section 4.05 of this Agreement; and
(d)   "First Education Credit" means the Development Credit Agreement
dated September 23, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
howev-r, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories, and provided further that no withdrawal
shall be rnade on account of expenditures for the Adult Vocational Guidance and
Training Center in Douala until the Association shall have approved the legal status
and regulations of such Center.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04 The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1982 and ending June 15, 2022, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1992 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿(b)   For the purposes of overall management and coordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall expand and maintain in its Ministry
of Education, Culture and Vocational Training the Project Unit established under
the First Education Credit with such responsibilities, powers and services as are
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Project Unit Director shall be made
responsible directly to the Minister of Education, Culture and Vocational Training
to ensure an efficient operation of such Project Unit. The Borrower shall provide
such Project Unit promptly as needed with such qualified and experienced
supporting staff, funds, facilities and other resources as shall be required for the
efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ specialists acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out the construction works included in the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The construction works included in the Project shall be carried out
on sites approved by the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivers thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
concurrence promptly upon their preparation, all plans and specifications related
to the construction works included in the Project.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the reports, contract documents, construction and procurement
schedules and detailed lists of equipment and furniture, for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the good financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire prior to scheduled construction all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project be maintained
at all times according to sound technical policies and practices, that all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof be made promptly as needed and that adequate
maintenance records be kept by the departments and agencies of the Borrower
responsible for such maintenance, repairs and renewals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions included
in the Project to be so operated as to promote the educational objectives of the


﻿7
Borrower and to be staffed at all times with experienced and qualified personnel
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.04. To ensure that the formal technical training system will be
responsive to the actual needs of local industry and business, the Borrower shall
establish not later than October 1, 1975 or such other date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, governing boards of the two technical
schools in Garoua and Douala which shall include appropriate representation of
local industry and business.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall allocate a sufficient number of scholarships
to ENS to ensure full enrollment at such institution at all times.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit, and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed tinder the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the
Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with
the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in
the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿9
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the appointment on a full-time basis of a Project Unit Director and a Project
Architect, who shall also serve as Deputy Project Unit Director, both acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the employment of architectural consultants, acceptable to the Association,
in charge of assisting the Borrower in the planning and supervision of the
construction of the Project institutions, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 8.02. The    date  October   2,   1972   is  hereby    specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre du Plan et de l'Amnnagement du Territoire of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.0.3 ot the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan et de l'Amdnagement du Territoire
Yaounde
United Republic of Cameroon


﻿10
Cable address:
Minpat
Yaounde, Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s / Frangois Xavier Tchoungui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit               % of
Allocated (Expressed          Expenditures
Category                 in Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.    Part A of the
Project
(a)   Civil Works                2,530,000            58% of total ex-
penditures
(b)   Consultants'                 460,000            100% of total ex-
and other                                       penditures
Specialists'
services (other
than under II
below)
(c)   Equipment                  2,770,000            100% of total ex-
penditures
(d)   Furniture                    390,000            100% of total ex-
penditures.
II.   Part B of the
Project
(a)   Specialists'                  110,000           100% of total ex-
services for                                    penditures
Pre-Investment
Study
(b)   Specialists'                  40,000            100',% of total ex-
services for a                                  penditures
pre-investment
study of tech-
nical and voca-
tional education
requirements in
the Northern
resion


﻿12
Amount of the Credit               % of
Allocated (Expressed          Expenditures
Category                 in Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(c)   Specialists'                 690,000            100% of total ex-
services and                                    penditures
fellowships re-
lated to the
Project institu-
tions
(d)   Project Unit
(i)   Specialists'           228,000            100% of total ex-
services                                  penditures
(ii)  Furniture and            22,000           100%  of total ex-
equipment                                 penditures
III.  Unallocated                       1,760,000
TOTAL           9,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemcd to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or


﻿13
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
any percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
(c)   Purchases of equipment of furniture pursuant to any contract of a
value of less than $5,000 equivalent.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I (a)
or (d) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project includes (a) the design, construction, conversion, rehabilitation,
furnishing, equipping and initial operation of educational and training institutions
and (b) the provision of technical assistance for the organization and
implementation of training programs and the training of counterparts. The purpose
of the Project is to assist the Borrower to achieve its educational and training
objectives.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.
1.    Design, construction, conversion and/or rehabilitation and furnishing
and equipping of three primary teacher training colleges, as detailed
in paragraph A of the Exhibit to this Schedule.
2.    Design, extension, furnishing and equipping of one general secondary
teacher and primary inspector training college, as detailed in paragraph
A of the Exhibit to this Schedule.
3.    Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of one upper general
secondary school to serve as practice school for upper general
secondary teacher trainces and demonstration school for structure and
curriculum reforms in general secondary education, as detailed in
paragraph A of the Exhibit to this Schedule.
4.    Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of two technical
secondary schools, one for lower technical secondary students,
including an industrial workshop teacher training section and the other
for upper technical secondary students, as detailed in paragraph A of
the Exhibit to this Schedule.
5.    Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of one adult vocational
guidance and training center to generate an adequate output of
semi-skilled and skilled workers and clerks as well as middle level
technicians, through in-service training, as detailed in paragraph A of
the Exhibit to this Schedule.


﻿15
Part B.
1.    Provision of specialists' services and of fellowships during such periods
substantially as detailed in paragraph B of the Exhibit to this Schedule
for (i) the carrying out of a pre-investment study of agricultural
education and rural training in order to determine the needs of these
sub-sectors, (ii) the carrying out of a pre-investment study of technical
and vocational education requirements of the Northern region,
including a feasibility study of a Lower Technical Secondary School
at Ngaoundere, and (iii) the organization and implementation of
training programs.
2.    Provision of specialists' services and furniture and equipment for the
Project Unit, as detailed in paragraph B of the Exhibit to this Schedule.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976;
and Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿16
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List to Educational Institutions
Estimated Student                           Estimate
Places              Additional         Area (M)
Rehabili-
Boarding  Housing         tated and
Institution           Additional   Total      Places    Units   New    converted
Primary Teacher Train-          280      630      230         4    5,240     2,970
ing Colleges (3),
Garoua, Nkongsamba,
Kumba*
Secondary Teacher and           350      850      240         -    4,050
Primary Inspector
Training College,
Yaound6
Demonstration Upper           1,000     1,000        -        2    4,310
General Secondary
School, Yaoundd**
Upper Technical                 325      325      200         3    4,600
Secondary School,
Garoua***
Lower Technical                 790       790        -        -    5,920
Secondary School (in-
cluding an Industrial
Workshop Teacher Train-
ing Section), Douala***
Adult Vocational                250      250       60         3    3,460
Guidance and Training
Center, Douala
*    The P.T.T.C., Kumba, includes a Primary Education Reform Development Center.
**   This institution will serve as practice school for upper general secondary teacher trainees and
demonstration school for structure and curriculum reforms.
*    This institution will serve as demonstration school for structure and curriculum reforms.


﻿17
B.    Specialists and Fellowships and Approximate Periods of Service
1.   Agricultural Education and Rural Training:
About 36 man/months of expert services to carry out a
pre-investment study of agricultural education and rural training.
2.    Technical and Vocational Education in the Northern Region
About 12 man/months of expert services to carry out a
pre-investment  study  of  technical  and  vocational  education
requirements of the Northern region, including a feasibility study of
a Lower Technical Secondary School at Ngaoundere.
3.   Primary Teacher Training:
About 72 man/months of expert services for the organization
and implementation of training programs and the training of national
counterparts in primary teacher training.
4.    Adult Vocational Guidance and Training:
(i) About 132 man/months of expert services for the
organization and implementation of training programs and the training
of national counterparts and (ii) about 60 man/months of scholarships
for these counterparts in adult vocational guidance and training.
5.   Project Unit:
(i) About 48 man/months of architect's services and about 24
man/months of procurement specialist's services and (ii) an allocation
equivalent to about $22,000 for additional furniture and equipment
for the Project Unit, as detailed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Bidders will be required to prequalify, and the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 8.01 (b) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
5.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.


﻿19
6.    The Borrower shall request the Association's concurrence with any
proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the
contract price or of $100,000 or more equivalent, whichever is less, together with
an explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Items shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such groups shall be for not less than $40,000 equivalent. Contracts
for less than $5,000 equivalent shall not be sent to the Association for concurrence
or financing from the Credit.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall send to the Association
for its approval the following:
(a)   lists of all items (together with corresponding curriculum objectives)
required for the Project and the proposed grouping thereof, showing
the specifications and the estimated unit price of each item and the
total price of each category of items. Items shall be indexed, coded
and numbered for identification with the educational institution and
the space for which they are required. Amendments to such lists shall
also be sent to the Association for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an
international basis, including the proposed advertising procedures.
Bidding documents shall specify that bidders must bid for at least 85%
of each package. The Borrower may make awards for less than one
package if judged more economical.
3.    Procurement shall be limited to those items specified in the approved
lists mentioned in subparagraph B 2 (a) above and identified in contract documents
by such indices, codes and numbers as appear in such lists.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating any bids received for imported and for
locally manufactured equipment and furniture, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer or
supplier established in the territories of the Borrower for goods


﻿20
manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in the territories of the Borrower; bids
from manufacturers in the Customs Union of the Central African States
(UDEAC) shall be considered as local bids; any other bid shall be
deemed a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of the goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid will be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of the goods;
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (c) (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
5.    The Borrower shall, after the bids have been evaluated and before
making the award, send to the Association in sufficient time for its approval, a
summary and analysis thereof, prepared by appropriate specialists who shall
compare the technical characteristics of proposed furniture and equipment and their
conformity with the tender specifications and a justification of the Borrower's
proposal for the award.
6.    Prcnptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been
awarded and before sending to the Association the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the following documents shall be sent to
the Bank:
(a)   a certificate signed by the Project Director or his deputy that the goods
covered by the contract are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Bank;


﻿21
(b)   a list of the bids received;
(c)   an analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
for making the award; and
(d)   two conformed copies of the contract.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
7.    Two conformed copies of any subsequent amendment to any contract
shall also be sent promptly to the Association.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit established under the First Education Credit, within the
Ministry of Education, Culture and Vocational Training, will be directly responsible
to the Minister of Education, Culture and Vocational Training for the overall
management of the Project and coordination with all departments and agencies
involved in the Project or in other related education programs.
2.    The Project Unit established     under the First Education Credit will be
reinforced by a Project Architect (who will also serve as Deputy Project Director)
and a Procurement Specialist, both acceptable to the Association and appointed
on a full-time basis on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Such
additional supporting staff as may be required for the efficient carrying out of
the Project Unit's responsibilities will be provided.
3.    The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, specifically for the following:
(a)   arrangements for the selection, briefing      and   supervision  of the
architectural consultants and other assisting specialists and the
establishment of their terms of reference;
(b)   administration of agreements with such consultants and specialists;
(c)   arrangements for the selection, briefing and supervision of the national
counterparts and the establishment of their training programs in
collaboration with the appropriate specialists provided under the
Technical Assistance program of the Project;
(d)   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted by the
consultants and other specialists;
(e)   necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts related
to the Project;
(f)   preparation of master lists of the furniture and equipment to be
procured for the Project;
(g)   regular inspection of all construction works;


﻿23
(h)   keeping of records and accounts related to the execution of the Project
and preparation of interim evaluation and financial statements therefor;
(i)   preparation for submission to the Association through proper channels
of applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account;
(j)   advice and assistance to anybody involved in the Project, with the
help of other specialists as needed, as to the educational needs of the
institutions included in the Project;
(k)   preparation, with the help of the consultants and other specialists, of
a comprehensive implementation schedule based on the Critical Path
Method, Gantt Chart or other satisfactory method, for setting down
the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on
which the carrying out of all aspects of the Project will be based;
(1)   coordination with   all government services and private, national,
bilateral or multilateral agencies involved in the Project or in other
related education projects; and
(m)   preparation of quarterly   progress reports for submission to the
Association.
4.    The Project Unit shall be provided with the necessary office space,
furniture and equipment as may be required by its expanded responsibilities.


