Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2137 
Operation Name 
Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
Region 
East Asia and the Pacific 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%);Roads and highways 
(10%);General education sector (10%);Health (10%);General 
finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P096635 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 1, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 24, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 25, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The aspiration of the Lao PDR Government is to be able to allocate increasing amounts of public 
resources towards the improvement of social outcomes. The Government of Lao PDR aims to 
achieve rapid economic growth in order to improve the living conditions of its poor people. It is 
committed to reduce poverty by half by 2015 and graduate from its status of least-developed 
country by 2020. The development strategy to achieve these goals has been articulated in the 
National Socio-Economic Development Plan (NSEDP 2001-05) and the National Growth and 
Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). It will also be reflected in the forthcoming NSEDP for 
2006-10. 
 
The NGPES and NSEDPs establish a framework for future, deeper reforms and makes 
Government development priorities more explicit and transparent. These priorities are consistent 
with the multi-dimensional nature of poverty alleviation. The strategy, in particular, seeks to:  
 
¾
Maintain macroeconomic stability by increasing revenue and ensuring appropriate fiscal and 
monetary policy;  
 
¾
Deepen structural reforms in the following areas: public expenditure management, financial 
sector, state-owned enterprises, private sector, trade, and development of the legal system; 
 
¾
Invest in the social sectors to expand access and improve social sector outcomes; 
 
¾
Invest in infrastructure such as roads, power, and water supply, and expand access to these 
services; 
 
¾
Invest in rural development and natural resource management
—including support for 
agricultural, mining, forestry and hydropower development; and 
 
¾
Strengthen capacity. 
 
Page  2
Building on the NGPES and NSEDP, 
Lao PDR’s First Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
(PRSO1) laid out a policy reform matrix and performance assessment framework for a series of 
three annual Poverty Reduction Support Operations (PRSOs). PRSO1, in the credit amount of 
SDR 3 million (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) and grant amount of SDR 3.6 million (US$ 5.5 million 
equivalent) grant, was approved by the World Bank’s Board in March 2005.  
Subject to maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic framework, satisfactory implementation of 
the National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES) and satisfactory progress against 
actions agreed in the policy matrix, the Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO2) 
would provide further budgetary support to Lao PDR in the grant amount of US$8 million on 
standard IDA grant terms. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation, the second in a 
program of three such operations, is to assist the Government in making monitorable progress in 
realizing its National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). The policy reform 
program articulated in the operation and program focuses in a selective fashion on key areas of the 
NGPES, and in particular aims to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the 
national budget process as the central mechanism for channeling public resources toward poverty 
reduction. In addition, the operation and program support the Government’s objective to maintain 
a
sound macroeconomic environment and accelerate growth by providing external resources for 
the execution of the Government’s budget.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The second in a program of three PRSOs, the PRSO2 dialogue has supported progress in three 
broad policy areas, consistent with the goals and strategies identified by Government in its NGPES 
and reflected in IDA’s Country Assistance Strategy: 
 
(i) 
public resource management – including supporting ongoing implementation of a five 
year Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program and associated capacity 
building; making progress in costing NGPES priority expenditures and reflecting this in 
budget plans; strengthening Treasury monitoring of budget execution; and minimizing 
the fiscal risks associated with State Owned Enterprises. 
 
(ii) 
public expenditure policy – including improvement in the timeliness of salary payments 
to teachers and health workers; an increase in the fuel levy to ensure that road 
maintenance is more adequately financed (and increasingly by users); and the 
conducting, jointly with donors, of a transparent and participatory Public Expenditure 
Tracking Survey and Public Expenditure Review.  
 
(iii) 
sustainable growth – including drafting and approval of amendments to the 1994 
Business Law, intended to streamline business registration; progress towards World 
Trade Organization Accession and with implementation of ASEAN Free Trade Area 
commitments; and drafting and approval of a new Customs Law, intended to strengthen 
customs administration and revenue generation.  
 
The PRSO2 dialogue has also involved discussion on future policy reforms which would “trigger” 
the Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO3).  
Page  3
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSO program supports a number of actions aimed at institutional and policy reform in 
environment. Those reforms are being supported in environmental assessment, policy development 
and capacity building, with special emphasis on forest management. The Bank has undertaken 
analytical work in environment with respect to the policies and the institutional changes being 
proposed in the above-mentioned areas, in cooperation with the authorities. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
IDA Grant 
8.0 
 Total 
8.0 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Edward Mountfield 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1247 
Fax: (202) 522-1557 
Email: emountfield@worldbank.org
 
