Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FINANCING NUMBER H217-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation/Program) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 2, 2006 
 
Page  2
FINANCING NUMBER H217-LA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 2, 2006, entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia, of the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Financing Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount 
equivalent to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,600,000
)
(“Grant”); 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of 
the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States dollars. 
 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III
 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its 
implementation.  To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the 
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, normally a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V
 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Post Box No. 46 
Vientiane 
Lao PDR 
 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at 
Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
By /s/ Somdy Douangdy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ian Porter 
 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The MOF has approved the Public Expenditure Management 
Strengthening Program’s annual implementation plan and the capacity building 
plan for FY 2005-06. 
 
2. 
The MOF has prepared its FY 2005-06 budget with administrative 
classifications, priority expenditure sectors, and summary data on statutory funds. 
 
3. 
The MOF has initiated a program to develop a new, Government Financial 
Statistics-compatible chart of accounts, a new budget nomenclature, and a 
strategy for implementation. 
 
4. 
The MOF has maintained and monitored records for central administration 
and selected provinces of: (a) accounts payable; and (b) treasury balances; and has 
prepared cash plans for central administration. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has launched independent external audits of financial 
accounts for FY 2004 for Lao Airlines (LA), Nam Papa Lao (NPNL), 
Pharmaceutical Factory 3 (PH3) and Bolisat Pattana Khet Poudoi (BPKP). 
 
6. 
The Recipient has approved for restructuring and initiated preparation of 
restructuring plans for four (4) of the fourteen (14) non-performing State Owned 
Enterprises identified in the State Asset Management Department’s 2003 
assessment:  Lane Xang Phatthana (LXP); Lat Visahakit Sanong Vatthou 
Technique (LVSVT); Lat Visahakit Konchak Kasikam (LVKK); and Bolisat 
Phalithaphanh Beton Lao (BPBL) (PMO Notice No. 1941 of December 22, 2005). 
 
7. 
The Recipient has adopted the action plan for financial sustainability of 
the power sector, to ensure continued financial viability of 
Electricité du Laos
.
8. 
The Recipient has paid the salaries of health care workers such that the 
stock of salaries outstanding more than one (1) month came below twenty-two 
percent (22%) of a month’s payroll. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
9. 
The Recipient has paid the salaries of teachers such that the stock of 
salaries outstanding more than one (1) month came below six percent (6%) of a 
month’s payroll. 
 
10. 
The Recipient’s National Assembly has approved the new Enterprise Law, 
replacing the 1994 Business Law. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in 
a
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this 
end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing  
Allocated 
(expressed in SDRs) 
Single Tranche 
SDR 5,600,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
SDR 5,600,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
.
Except as the Association may 
otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into an account designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of 
the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of 
the Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the 
Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to 
make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  9
-8- 
 
payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Audit
.
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the account referred to in Part C. 1 of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
said account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
 
F. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is February 28, 2007. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bolisat Pattana Khet Pudoi” means a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 188, dated August 19, 
1984, and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“Bolisat Phalithaphanh Beton Lao” means a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 136 dated August 10, 
1998, of the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Handicraft, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Association or the Bank has financed or agreed to 
finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, 
Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups 
or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Group Sub-group
Description of Item 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or 
international agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines 
that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of 
the Financing proceeds during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
 
4. 
“FY” means: (a) in the case of the Recipient, the fiscal year extending 
from October 1 in any calendar year through September 30 of the 
following year; and (b) in the case of Lao Airlines, Nam Papa Lao, 
Pharmaceutical Factory 3, and Bolisat Pattana Khet Poudoi, the fiscal year 
extending from January 1 to December 31. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credit and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
6. 
“Lane Xang Phatthana” means a wholly state-owned enterprise established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 0798/CPMO dated May 11, 1999, of 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce and any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Lat Visahakit Konchak Kasikam” means a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 985/CPMO dated June 
21, 1997, of the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture-Forest, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Lat Visahakit Sanong Vatthou Technique” means a wholly state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 360/MOC 
dated September 4, 1983, of the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce and 
any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Lao Airlines” means the wholly state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 771/MCTPC dated May 23, 1989, of 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and 
Construction, and any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor 
thereto. 
 
11. 
“Nam Papa Laos” means a wholly state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 1296, dated April 5, 2001, of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Transport and Communications, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
12. 
“Pharmaceutical Factory 3” means a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Resolution No. 275, dated May 15, 
1987, of the Recipient’s Ministry of Health, and any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set 
forth or referred to in the letter dated March 17, 2006, from the Recipient 
to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
of the Program during its execution.  
 
14. 
“Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program” means a 
program of actions, supported by technical assistance, designed to 
Page  13
-12- 
 
improve policy consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in 
the Recipient
’s management of public expenditures. 
 
15. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are 
deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are 
renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial 
Management; Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, 
and the remaining Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its 
entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
expenditures under the Financing until two years after the Closing 
Date.  The Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives 
to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
Page  14
-13- 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be 
prepared, and furnish to the Association not later than six months 
after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified 
or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are 
added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms 
being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to 
read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is 
put in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in 
the Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition 
is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
