Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1048b-PAN
PANAMA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE
PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 14, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofiecial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =      Balboa - B/.
US$1                 =       B/.1
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =      0,62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)            =      10,8 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)             =      35.3 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 US gallon (gal)              =      3.785 liters (1)
1 million US gallons per
day, (mgd)                       4 43.9 liters per second (1/sec)
1 milligram per liter (mg/l)          o.o58 Grain per US gallon
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IDAAN        Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
ABBREVIATIONS
ft.              = foot
gal              = gallon
gpcd             = gallon per capita per day
gpd              = gallon per day
gpm              = gallon per minute
hp               = horsepower
hr               = hour
in               = inch
min              = minute
mgd              = million gallons per day
ppm              = part per million
psi              = pound per square inch
sec              = second
U.S.             = United States
GOVERNMENT OF PANAMA FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -   December 31



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page  No.
INTRODUCTION AND  SUMMARY  .............. .............                                              i - xii
1.     THE  WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR                        ...................      1
Background  ......  oooooooo. .....o.  ..   .*.......................... . o......        1
Population Data  ........................................... o... .o.   o......           1 
Population  Served  .             ..... . ....       . . ..  o.... .    . ..........     2
Sector  Organization  . .....** . .. ..  .......  ... .. ........ ...                    3
Past  Investments           ........    .   ....... .         . ..... ... . ... .....    4
Water  Rate  Policy  .                   ......         .............  oso*oooo          4
Government  Objectives   ...........                 o.. .    .. .. . ..   ...... ....   5
Bank Objectives for the Sector ...  .............                                         6
2.    THE  BORROWER            ..... ooo...    .    .... o o... ... .. .... ......  .o.  .       7
Introduction  o................................. .o.... os.... 00 0- .0000               7
Organization  ....                      .....    ** ...e*..............                   7
Personal  Review  .... o..o. .......              0..0... ..................-...............  7
Billing  and  Collection  ........ .                .. .... . .       ....... .. . . .    8
Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures  ......oo.........o.. .                            9
Planning  and  Budgeting   ... ...   ...  .......   oo..... ........                    10
Audit        .....      o...  ...oo......o.........................................     10
Financial  Reporting  .....   ..... ......... ....... ... ......                        10
Work  Coordination  ............................... 9            .......s.**....        11
Insurance  .................................... o        ....,  ...... .........        11
Management  Assistance  and  Training  Program  .. ...........                          11
3.     DEMAND  AND MARKET ASPECTS  .......................p. .....                             14
Scope  ........................................... .....                                14
Present  Production  and  Consumption  .....................                            14
Composition  of  Consumption ..................* ....o.....                             15
Population  Forecast  ... ................                     .......... . .....    17
Forecast  of  Consumption  ..... ...                 ........................           18
This report was prepared by Messrs. Robert Wildeman, Fritz Rodriguez and
Klas Ringskog.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
4.   THE   PROJECT   ........................................        21
Scope and Design Objectives .21
Existing Facilities .21
Definition of Scope .23
Project Description .24
Cost Estimates .25
Financing .28
Implementation .28
Procurement                                                     28
Disbursement .30
Environment Aspects .31
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .33
Introduction .33
Past Finances and Present Position .33
Water and Sewerage Tariffs .34
Financial Plan .35
Evaluation of Financial Performance .37
6. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .42
Introduction .42
Sensitiv-ity Analysis .43
Marginal Cost Analysis .43
7.   AGREEMENT TO-BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .47
Additional Information Available in Projects File .50
May 14, 1976



THE WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE SECTOR IN PANAMA
Current Situation and Future Implications
1.        The distribution of the population has affected the development of
the water supply and sewerage sector in Panama. About half of Panama's 1.7
million people lived in cities and towns in 1974. Urban population is con-
centrated in the regions surrounding Panama City, the country's capital and
commercial center, and Colon, the industrial center, which are located on the
Pacific and Atlantic exits of the Panama Canal, respectively. About one-third
of the country's total population lives in Panama City alone. Outside Panama
City, Colon, and the surrounding towns population is dispersed. The rate of
urbanization far exceeds the rate of population growth of 3.1 percent per
year, and the urban population which totalled 813,000 in 1974, is expected
to increase to 1.1 million by 1980.
2.        Considerable progress has been made in improving sanitation facil-
ities in Panama in the last 15 years, but these are still inadequate to meet
the needs of the rapidly growing population. Investments in water and sewer-
age increased rapidly, particularly in the seventies, totalling US$44.1 mil-
lion in the 1971-74 period. These resulted in a substantial expansion in the
transmission and distribution facilities, and in the installation of the
Chilibre Plant to supply Panama City, the first major government-owned produc-
tion facility. In the past, a large portion of the water distributed by the
Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales (IDAAN), the national
water company, had been purchased from the Panama Canal Company.
3.        The percentage of total population served by public water increased
from 48 percent in 1960 to 70 percent in 1974. In 1974, about 95 percent of
the urban population was served with water (mainly through house connections),
and about 45 percent of the rural population (communities of less than 2,000
inhabitants) had access to water, frequently in the form of standpipes. About
72 percent of the urban population is served by sewerage systems, and about 1
percent of the rural population had access to sewerage services. The much
higher percentage of urban population with access to water and sewerage faci-
lities is explained partly by the extremely high unit costs of providing
water and sewerage services in the rural areas where population is dispersed,
and partly by the priority which must be given to tackling urban sanitation
problems where the health hazards resulting from inadequate sanitation faci-
lities are very high. Although the expansion of water supply and sewerage
systems in the urban centers has been rapid during the last 15 years, most of
the poor and rural migrants living in the urban fringe areas still do not have
direct access to public water.
4.        The Government's effort to improve sanitation facilities has been
costly. Sectoral planning, largely the responsibility of IDAAN, has been
weak, leading to overinvestment. At present, over-capacity in production
co-exists with unsatisfied demand. Production facilities designed to serve
Panama City and neighboring towns are underutilized because expansion in the



- ii -
distribution network has not kept pace with increased capacity, with the
result that the poorer sections of the city and some surrounding towns have
only limited access to water. On the other hand, expansion of capacity and
distribution networks in other parts of the cotntry, such as the Colon area,
have not kept pace with increased demand. Further, the rapid expansion has
led to production and supply problems. Water losses in the networks and
household wastage account for a high percentage of water produced. The full
extent of the problem cannot be adequately measured since over 40 percent of
connections are not metered. In 1975, about 36 percent of water produced
could not be accounted for.
5.        The organizational structure and management systems of IDAAN were
not changed to meet the demands imposed on them by the expanded network.
Largely because water rates have not been adequately adjusted, IDAAN's finan-
cial viability has been impaired, and the contribution of funds provided by
operations to sectoral investments has been negligible.
Government Objectives
6.        The Panamanian Government is making efforts to correct problems
which have constrained the efficient development of the sector, and has
prepared a national sanitation program which has as an objective the pro-
vision of water to at least 85 percent of the total population by 1980. The
program aims at installing water supply systems in poor urban areas to meet
requirements resulting from the inflow of rural migrants; increasing services
in the rural areas, and providing adequate service to the rapidly expanding
industrial and commercial sectors. Investments in water services will be
geared not only to expanding capacity and distribution, but also to optimiz-
ing the use of existing capacity.
7.        The national sanitation program also contemplates the extension of
sewer systems, and the treatment of sewage and wastewaters in the metro-
politan areas of Panama City and Colon. So far, sewer and industrial liquid
wastes have been discharged untreated into the sea or adjacent rivers.
8.        To meet overall sectoral objectives, the Government proposes to
invest US$57 million over the next five years, distributed as follows: US$20
million for water supply in urban areas; US$10 million for sewerage in urban
areas; and US$27 million for water supply and sewerage in provincial towns and
rural areas. IDAAN accounts for US$54 million of the total investments.
9.        In carrying out the investment program, which is realistic and
represents a substantial reduction of previous investment plans, the Govern-
ment intends to improve IDAAN's planning and as to strengthen IDAAN's organi-
zation, management and operations, with a view to making it a more effective
agency in project preparation and execution. Finally, the Government is
addressing water pricing issues, so that a reasonable proportion of new works
can be financed from water sales.
10.       The proposed Project, the first Bank operation in the water supply
and sewerage sector in Panama, supports the Government's objectives. It
would be aimed primarily at expanding distribution to the poor areas in four



- iii -
of Panama's urban centers, and includes a sustantial component of technical
assistance to strengthen the planning process and improve the organization
and management of IDAAN. External assistance for the sector began in the
early 1960's, and US$53 million have been committed by international lending
institutions since then. USAID has been particularly active in the sector.
It has made five loans totalling US$37 million, but does not plan any further
water supply lending. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has made
three loans totalling US$13.7 million for water supply projects in provincial
towns and rural areas, and intends to continue to concentrate its sector
lending in the smaller cities and rural areas.
Institutional Situation
11.       IDAAN, the national water supply and sewerage authority, was estab-
lished in 1961 as an autonomous government agency. It carries out about 95
percent of annual investments in the sector, operates a network of 50 water
supply and 14 sewerage systems throughotit Panama, and has responsibility for
planning and operating water and sewerage systems in communities with more
than 500 inhabitants. The Ministry of Public Health plans and operates the
systems in the rest of the country. This structure is adequate for Panama
which has a few large urban centers, and where cross subsidization is needed
to make projects in small communities and the rural areas financially viable.
12.       IDAAN is headed by an Executive Director who is appointed by the
President of Panama. A seven-man Board of Directors provides policy guide-
lines, and makes major operating decisions. IDAAN's management and staff
are competent. However, the expansion of services resulting from large in-
vestment programs in the past has taxed its organizational and financial
structure, which is characterized by: (i) overstaffing; (ii) inadequate
billing and collection procedures; (iii) improper accounting and reporting
practices; (iv) overlapping of duties and responsibilities; and (v) inade-
quate planning and budgeting.
13.       The Government and IDAAN recognize that IDAAN's organization,
management systems and operating procedures will have to be strengthened
to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding sector. Specifically, IDAAN's
management recognizes that the Planning Office should be strengthened so
that information on sectoral requirements and their financial implications
is always available for decision-making. Measures will also be taken to
reduce overstaffing by stabilizing the number of IDAAN's employees. IDAAN
has agreed to revise its organizational structure, and strengthen its Plan-
ning Office within one year of loan signing (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Further, IDAAN staff will require additional training in project evaluation,
auditing, and technical fields which are new to IDAAN. To meet the opera-
tional and training needs, the proposed Project includes financing for
consulting services to help design and implement appropriate management
systems, and a training program to upgrade the internal audit, financial,
administrative, and technical staff. IDAAN has agreed to carry out the
management assistance and training programs with consultants acceptable to
the Bank, and to review the progress of these programs with the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.02(b) and 3.03).



- iv -
THE PROJECT
14.       The proposed Project would be the Bank's first operation in the
water supply and sewerage sector in Panama. Technical and econOmic studies
for the project were carried out by IDAAN with the assistance of consult-
ants, and the Project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Panama
in November, 1975. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington
from April 19, 1976 to April 22, 1976. The Borrower, IDAAN, and the Govern-
ment were represented by Messrs. tIanuael Alvarado, Executive Director of
IDAAN, and Jose Sokol, Deputy Minister of Planning and Economic Policy.
Project Concept
15.       The Project involves improvements In the water supply systems of the
cities of Panama, Colon, Chorrera, and Arraijan, and provision of water to the
new fishing port of Punta Vacamonte. It would also contribute to bring about
institutional and operational improvements in the sector. The Project would:
(i) provide water to about 106,000 of the poorest people living in Panama City
and suburbs of Colon by expanding the distribution systems to low income areas
of those cities; (ii) increase the production and transmission capacity of the
Colon water supply system by one third and rehabilitate its existing systems;
(iii) provide adequate water supply to the low income towns of Chorrera and
Arraijan, near Panama City; (iv) supply water to the fishing port of Vacamonte;
(v) reduce waste and losses in the existing systems, so that unaccounted-for
water does not exceed 25 percent of production, which is considered an accept-
able level; (vi) improve the sewerage system in Panama City's low income dis-
trict of El Chorrillo; and (vii) improve the efficiency of IDAAN's management
and operations.
16.       The physical components of the Project are designed to permit phased
expansion in capacity as demand increases. Specifically, the Project consists
of:
I.   Colon Sub-Project
Construction of raw water intake and pumping facilities on the
Gatun Lake; installation of a 1 km long raw water transmission
pipeline to transport water from the intake well at the Gatun
Lake to the Colon treatment plant; and construction of the
Colon water treatment plant with an initial capacity of 4 mgd;
Installation of a 2 km long filtered water transmission pipeline
to convey treated water by gravity from the Colon water treatment
plant to Colon and its suburbs;
Installation of distribution facilities in the low income suburban
districts of Cativa, Puerto Pilon and Sabanita, where 76,000 low
income people live;



Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the exisitng distribution
system, establishment of a leak detection and repair program,
pitometric investigations to locate leaks in the system,
installation of house water meters, and construction of system
reinforcements.
II.   Panama City Sub-Project
Installation of water pipes and sewers in the district of El
Chorrillo, where 30,000 low income people live.
III.   Chorrera Sub-Project
Optimization of the water treatment plant to increase its
present capacity of 3 mgd to 6 mgd;
Improvement of Chorrera's distribution facilities, including the
reinforcement of transmission pipelines and the provision of
additional storage.
IV.   Arraijan/Vacamonte Sub-Project
Increase the supply of water to the town of Arraijan and provide
water to the new fishing port of Vacamonte by either installing
wells or by linking the Arraijan system to the Mira Flores treat-
ment plant in the Panama Canal Zone.
V.   Metering Program
(i) Purchase of 30,000 water meters and meter boxes to be
installed by IDAAN;
(ii) Acquisition and utilization of water meter testing and
leak detection equipment.
VI.   Technical Assistance
Management consulting services to assist IDAAN in the following
specific areas: (i) definition of functions of each department;
(ii) design and implementation of a program to strengthen the
Planning Office; (iii) design and implementation of an effective
billing and collection system; (iv) improvement of accounting
practices and reporting systems; (vi) design of an audit program;
and (vii) preparation of effective planning and budgeting systems.
Consulting services to train IDAAN staff in the following fields:
(i) administration; (ii) project evaluation (technical, financial,
and economic); (iii) auditing; and (iv) technical--including
treatment plant operations, leakage detection, and pitometric
surveys.



- vi -
VII.   Engineering Services for detailed design and construction super-
vision.
17.       The Gatun Lake, which will be the source of water for the Colon
Sub-Project, is under the United States jurisdiction. IDAAN has requested a
license from the Canal Zone Authorities to locate intake and pumping equip-
ment on the shore of the lake, and to use lake for water supply to Colon.
IDAAN is confident that such a license can be expeditiously obtained. The
same procedure was followed in the case of the Chilibre Treatment Plant which
supplies Panama City with water pumped from Lake Madden, also under United
States jurisdiction. Obtaining a license would be a condition of disbursement
for the Colon Sub-Project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)).
18.       IDAAN would carry out studies to determine whether it should use
groundwater or pump water from the Mira Flores water treatment plant in the
Canal Zone to supply Arraijan and Vacamonte (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
In order to pump water from the Mira Flores water treatment plant, it would be
necessary to use an existing pipeline or pipelines in the Panama Canal Zone.
If this proves to be the best alternative, IDAAN would request a license to
use the pipeline or pipelines. Under this alternative, such a license would
be a condition of disbursement for the Arraijan/Vacamonte Sub-project (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(c)).
Project Cost and Financing
19.       The estimated cost of the Project is US$20.5 million, including:
(i) 14 percent of base costs for physical contingencies; (ii) 36 percent of
base costs for price escalation; and (iii) capitalized interest and other
charges during construction. The cost estimates are summarized on the
following page.



- vii -
------ US$ Thousands -------
Local     Foreign       Total
Colon Sub-Project                             1,784.7    2,457.0       4,241.7
Panama (El Chorrillo) Sub-Project               528.7       679.1      1,207.8
Chorrera Sub-Project                            800.0    1,131.0       1,931.0
Arraijan Vacamonte Sub-Project                  621.3       908.7      1,530.0
Metering Program                                421.4       840.5      1,261.9
Construction Costs                            4,156.1    6,016.3    10,172.4
Engineering and Administration                  476.9                  1,151.9
Management and Training                          180.0                   300.0
Base Costs                                    4,813.0    6,811.3    11,624.3
Physical contingencies                          650.4       920.5      1,570.9
Price escalation                              2,510.4    2,206.0       4.716.4
Project cost                                  7,973.8    9.937.8    17,911.6
Interest during construction                    535.1    2,062.2       2,597.3
Total Financing Required                      8,508.9   12,000.0    20,508.9
20.       Foreign exchange requirements amount to US$12.0 million, including
US$2.1 million of interest during construction and the Bank loan would finance
this amount. The Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4 years
of grace. The balance of Project costs, estimated at US$8.5 million, would
he financed by IDAAN from internal cash generation (US$4.5 million) and by
Government equity grants (US$4 million). The Government has undertaken to
provide the necessary funds for the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.06).
21.       The Project contains an estir,mated 390 man-months of consulting
services to assist in the preparation of engineering drawings and specifica-
tions, project supervision and management assistance and training. The
estimated cost of these services including physical contingencies and price
escalation is US$2 million, or an average cost per man-month of US$5,120.
Marke:t and Production Aspects
22.       Water consumption is expected to increase at an average annual rate
of 2.0 percent for Panama City; 0.8 percent for Colon; and 8.3 percent for
the rest of the country. The projections take into account increases in over-
all demand resulting from the expected population growth and reduction in



- viii -
wastage resulting from the combined effect of the metering program and tariff
increases. The per capita consumption in Colon has been conservatively esti-
mated in that it does not take into account some of the demand that could
result from the industrialization of the city. The Project, however, has
been designed so that the proposed facilities could be upgraded. at any time
to satisfy additional requirements.
23.       Water for the Panama City Sub-Project would come from the Government-
owned Chilibre plant on Madden Lake and from the Miraflores plant in the Panama
Canal Zone which currently supplies about 53 percent of the capital's require-
ments. Water for the Colon Sub-Project would come from Gatun Lake and from
the Mount Hope plant in the Panama Canal Zone which is currently Colon's sole
source. Chorrera's treatment plant uses water from the Caimito River, while
water for Arraijan/Vacamonte would come from underground sources or from the
Mira Flores plant.
Implementation
24.       The Project would be carried out by IDAAN.  Engineering consultants
acceptable to the Bank would prepare the detailed design of the Project, and
would assist IDAAN in the supervision of construction. The Project would be
carried out during 1976-81.
Procurement and Disbursement
25.       All contracts would be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for civil works contracts
under US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$1.3 million, which would be
awarded on the basis of local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Foreign contractors are expected to win all contracts for plant and pumping
station equipment, water meters and pipes. Panamanian contractors are ex-
pected to win all civil works contracts except those for the water treatment
plants. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15 percent margin of preference (cus-
toms duties are substantially higher) would be allowed for equipment manu-
factured in Panama.
26.       The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period against the
estimated imported component of the project. Disbursements would be made
against the CIF cost of imported equipment, and 13 percent of the total cost
of civil works, which represents the imported component of such works, and the
foreign cost of consulting services. The loan is expected to be fully dis-
bursed by the second half of 1980.
Financial Analysis
27.       Water rates have remained constant for 20 years.  This was possible
because the Government was prepared to cover IDAAN's recurrent losses, and
because until 1975, when the Chilibre water treatment plant was commissioned,
all water for distribution in the metropolitan areas of Panama City and Colon
was purchased from the Panama Canal Company at low cost. The higher than an-
ticipated operating costs, together with the funds required to finance recent



- ix -
investments, resulted in operating losses for IDAAN from 1972 to 1974. The
financial situation was further aggravated by a high level of overdue water
bills, of which the major part was owed by public sector agencies. In 1975,
the Government finally authorized a substantial water rate increase which,
together with measures to improve billing and collection practices, allowed
IDAAN to obtain a net profit of US$3.5 million.
28.       Additional measures are still required for IDAAN to:  (a) liquidate
a US$5 million overhang of current liabilities, and (b) raise the large capi-
tal sums needed for its investment program. The Government and IDAAN have
agreed on a major financial package whose main components are: (i) refinanc-
ing IDAAN's short-term debt through a US$2 million medium-term commercial bank
loan, which was recently contracted; (ii) settlement by the end of 1977 of
overdue public sector water bills (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02);
(iii) phased increase of water rates which would almost double their 1975
level by end of 1978 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
29.       The Government has already authorized IDAAiN to further increase the
water tariffs beginning March 31, 1976, on the basis of automatic monthly
increases of 3 percent per month for 12 consecutive months, and of 1.5 percent
per month for 12 consecutive months thereafter. The net effect in current
prices of the monthly automatic increases would be to raise the average annual
tariffs by 16 percent in 1976, 30 percent in 1977 and 14 percent in 1978. The
average rate including valorization tax, was US$0.65 per thousand US gallons
at the end of 1975, and will gradually increase to US$1.03 by the end of 1978.
This is high both by Latin American and United States Standards.
30.       After 1978, water rates would be adjusted as necessary to ensure
that 3.8 percent of the average current net value of its fixed assets in
service and under construction during any fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section
5.06). This target will generate enough funds so that IDAAN will be able to
cover operating costs and a substantial portion of its investment program. In
addition to water rates, IDAAN will continue to charge a consumer tax to cover
investment in distribution facilities (Loan Agreement, Section 5.08). These
measures should enable IDAAN to obtain a financial rate of return on revalued
fixed assets of about 4 percent after 1976. IDAAN intends to carry out annual
revaluation of its fixed assets (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). A rate of
return of 4 percent is considered adequate for a company of this type. IDAAN,
in addition to being responsible for water supply, also provides sewerage
services. Mixed companies of this type generally have lower levels of profi-
tability than water companies. Also, unlike other water utilities, which only
operate in one city, IDAAN runs 50 water supply and 14 sewer systems in rural
as well as urban areas. These systems, particularly those in scattered rural
communities, have a high social component. The Government and IDAAN have also
decided to carry out a study of the water tariff structure to assess the
impact of its rate structure on the different income levels of IDAAN's cus-
tomers (Loan Agreement, Section 5.09).
31.       IDAAN's capital requirements during 1976-80 total US$54.1 million,
including the proposed Project of US$20.5 million, and additional construc-
tion of US$33.6 million. About 38 percent of the requirements would be



- x -
financed from net funds provided by operations; 19 percent from Government
equity contributions; 43 percent from borrowings, including a proposed loan
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The IDB loan is estimated
at US$12 million with interest at 3 percent per annum, with an amortization
period of 30 years including a 4 vear grace period. The financing plan is
summarized as follows:
1976-1980
Application of Funds                 US$ Thousands    Percentage
Project Cost                              17,900           27.5
Interest during construction               2,600            4.0
Other works                               33,600           51.6
Total investments                       54,100           83.1
Increase in working capital               11,000           16.9
65,100          100.0
Source of Funds
Net funds provided by operations          24,800           38.1
Government equity contributions           12,400           19.0
Proposed IBRD loan                        12,000           18.4
Proposed IDB loan                         12,000           18.4
Existing IDB loan                          3,900            6.1
65,100          100.0
32.       IDAAN would not undertake any other major investment during the
period of execution of the proposed project without the approval of the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.10) nor would it incur any long-term debt without
the Bank's agreement unless its projected net income before interest and
depreciation is at least 1.4 times its maximum debt service (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.07). IDAAN's financial statements will be audited annually by
independent external auditors (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
33.       The financial structure and liquid position of IDAAN will improve
substantially over the next five years (1976-80). Total assets will increase
by about 56 percent to about US$194 million; equity will almost double, from
US$68 million to US$123 million, while long-term debt will increase by about
31 percent, from US$48 million to IJS$63 million. The debt/equity ratio will
continue to improve and by 1980 will be about 1 to 2. The ratio of current
assets to current liabilities will be favorable throughout the period, and
will average about 2 to 1. IDAAN would settle all outstanding overdue bills
to other public sector agencies by the end of 1977 (Loan Agreement, Section
5.11).



- xi -
Economic Analysis
34.      The internal financial rate of return is estimated to be 7 percent
-or the Colon Subproject, the cost of which is US$6.3 million; 26 percent for
the Panama Subproject, the cost of which is US$2.2 million; 9 percent for the
Chorrera Subproject, the cost of which is US$3.1 million; and 6 percent for
the Arraijan Subproject, the cost of which is US$0.5 million. The average
internal financial rate of return of these components, which account for
68 percent of the total project cost, is 11 percent.
35.       The aggregate rate of return excludes the following components,
which because of the predominance of non-quantifiable factors, no meaningful
rate of return could be estimated: (i) improving services for existing
consumers, the cost of which is US$3.9 million; (ii) management and training,
the cost of whirh is US$0.5 million; and (iii) extending services to the
fishing port of Vacamonte, the cost of which is US$1.4 million. The Vacamonte
Subproject is fully justified, since the provision of adequate volumes of
water is indispensible for the functioning of the fishing industry in the new
site. All cost figures include physical contingencies and price escalation.
4si sks
311o).    There are no major technical financial or marketing risks to the
5uccess of the proposed Project. IDAAN has had previous experience in carry-
-ng out investments in treatment plant and distribution systems. Existing
and prospective arrangements with the Panama Canal Zone Authority ensure
ample water supply, both from Lakes Madden and Gatun, and through purchases
from plants located in the Panama Canal Zone whose capacity exceeds prospect-
_ve Zone consumption. In order to locate a water intake on the shores of the
^atun Lake, and to use water from the Gatun Lake, IDAAN would have to obtain
-censes from the Panama Canal Zone Authorities. IDAAN would also have to
rrntain a license to use a pipeline or pipelines to pump water from the
"Iraflores water treatment plant to Arraijan. IDAAN is confident that such
licenses will be expeditiously obtained. Although the Governor of the Panama
;anal Zone may grant only revokable licenses, the likelihood of a license
-eing revoked is negligible. The water supply systems of Panama City and
Colon have traditionally been developed taking into account the availabilities
vn the Canal zone, and indeed, until 1975, facilities in the Zone were the
sole source of water for the two cities.
'7t *     As indicated in paragraphs 32 and 33 above, the rapid expansion of
7DAAN's services has taxed its organizational and financial structure. How-
ever, IDAAN has undertaken to strengthen its organizational structure, man-
-gement procedures and to train its staff, with the assistance of qualified
consultants, this will enable IDAAN to carry out its 1976-80 program success-
fully. In addition, the Government has adopted a water rate policy designed
to reverse IDAAN's previous financial deterioration. An improvement in the
financial performance began in 1975, when IDAAN had its first profit since
1972.



- xii -
Conclusions
38.       The proposed Project would fulfill several objectives.  It would
provide water to low income population in key urban centers. Secondly, it
would increase the supply of water in Colon, supporting the Government's
industrialization policy for the city. Thirdly, it would assist in improving
sectoral planning by providing assistance in this field. Fourth, it would
strengthen project execution and financing by improving the operating and
managerial capacity of IDAAN, as well as ensuring its financial viability.



REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE
PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CHAPTER 1
THE WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
1.01      Although considerable progress has been made in improving the water
supply and sanitation facilities in Panama during the last 15 years, these
are still inadequate to meet the needs of the rapidly growing population. The
urban population, whose growth is far in excess of the national rate of 3%,
represents 51% of the total population. The Government has requested a loan
from the Bank to help finance water supply projects in five cities located
within the metropolitan areas of Panama City and Colon where more than 77% of
the urban population live.
1.02      The proposed project would be the Bank's first operation in the
water supply sector in Panama. Technical and econmic studies for the project
were carried out by IDAAN together with their consultants, and the project
was appraised in November 1975 by a Bank mission which consisted of Messrs.
Fritz Rodriguez, Robert Wildeman and Klas Ringskog. The project consists
of improvements in the water supply system of Panama, Colon, Chorrera, Arraijan,
and the fishing port of Vacamonte, as well as institutional and operational
improvements in the sector. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$20.5 million. A Bank loan of US$12 million to cover the foreign exchange
component of the project as well as interest and commitment charges during
construction is proposed.
Population Data
1.03      Panama has a total area of 77,100 square kilometers and is the land
bridge connecting North America with South America. It is divided by the
Panama Canal, a 79 Km. channel connecting the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans.
Panama's population is estimated at 1.7 million and is growing at an average
annual rate of 3.1%. The population density is 21.5 inhabitants per square
mile. About 51% of the country's population live in urban areas and the
remaining 49% in rural areas (communities with less than 2,000 persons).
More than 65% of the urban population is concentrated In Panama City and
Colon, Panama's first and second largest cities located respectively on the
Pacific and Atlantic Coasts.
1.04      Panama City, the nation's capital, dominates the pattern of urban
growth in Panama; almost a third of the total population or about 470,000
live in this city. Colon and the adjacent communities have a present com-
bined population of 85,000. Panama City's population is growing annually at



- 2 -
2% and Colon at 2%. The country is divided into 9 provinces which are sub-
divided into 62 districts and 435 localities. Population growth in the
project area is shown in Table 3-3. Forecasts of populations are illustrated
in Fig. 3-1. The present population in the project area is estimated at
591,400. It will reach almost a million by the year 2000.
Population Served
1.05      As indicated in Table 1-1, the percentage of the total population
served by public water has increased from 48% in 1960 to 70% in 1974, and
95% of the urban and 45% of the rural had access to public water supply.
About 72% of the urban population (communities of more than 2,000 persons)
is served by public sewer systems; less than 1% of the rural population has
access to such facilities.
1.06      The high percentage of urban population with access to water and
sewerage facilities is explained partly by the extremely high unit cost of
providing water and sewerage services in the rural areas where population is
dispersed, and partly by the priority which must be given to tackling urban
sanitation problems where the health hazards resulting from inadequte sani-
tation facilities are very high. Yet even though the expansion of water
supply and sewerage systems in the urban centers has been rapid during the
last 15 years, most of the poor who live in the urban fringe areas still do
not have direct access to public water.
Table 1-1: Total Population Served, Urban and Rural in 1,000
Total       % Served      Urban       % Served      Rural       % Served
Year   Popul.   Water  Sewer   Popul.   Water  Sewer   Popul.   Water  Sewer
1960   1,075    48.3    22.9    446         90.0   55.3    629        18.8   0.0
1967   1,329    59.8    28.9    608         90.0   62.7    721        34.3   0.4
1969   1,417    62.5    30.4    667         90.0   64.4    750        38.0   0.1
1970   1,428    64.8    32.3    679         91.0   67.6    749        41.0   0.2
1971   1,471    66.1    33.1    710         92.0   67.9    761        42.0   0.6
1972   1,516    67.5    34.3    743         93.0   69.4    773        43.0   0.5
1973   1,563    69.0    35.4    778         94.0   70.6    785        44.0   0.6
1974   1,611    70.2    36.7    813         95.0   72.1    798        45.0   0.7
1.07      The relatively high service levels have undoubtedly contributed to
the reduction of the incidence of water-borne diseases in the country's
mortality and morbidity statistics. Of the ten more frequent mortality
causes accounting in 1973 for 60% of the total deaths, diseases of hydric
origin occupied the sixth place, accounting only for 6% of total deaths.



-3-
Sector Organization
1.08      The first public water supply and sewerage originally appeared in
Panama around 1900 at the start of the Panama Canal construction. Most of
the existing water supply and sewer systems in Panama City and Colon were
built as part of the Panama Canal facilities and were operated by the Panama
Canal Company until 1953, when Panamanian authorities took over the operations
in these two cities. Under the agreement of November 18, 1903 between the
Government of Panama and the United States, the latter had undertook to build
water supply and sewerage in Panama City and Colon, and to operate them for
fifty years.
1.09      Between 1953 and 1955, water supply and sewerage in Panama City and
Colon were under the responsibility of the "Division de Alcantarillados y
Acueductos" (DACA), an agency of the National Government. In 1955, the
Government set up the "Comision de Aguas y Alcantarillados de Panama" (CAAP)
which operated the country's water supply and sewer systems until 1961 when
the "Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales (IDAAN) was set up.
Since 1915, the communities on both sides of the isthmus are supplied with
water from two treatment plants located in the Canal Zone and owned by the
Panama Canal Company: the Miraflores Plant on the Pacific side and the
Mount Hope Plant on the Atlantic side. Water is purchased wholesale by IDAAN
from the Panama Canal Company for retail sale and distribution in Panama City,
Colon and their suburbs. IDAAN has recently built its own water production
facilities for Panama City, the Chilibre Water Treatment Plant which alone
can meet the city's present water consumption. IDAAN, however, continues to
purchase bulk water (about 52% of the city's total consumption) from the
Panama Canal Company, in part due to its lower cost, but also because of
distribution system constraints in some areas of the city.
1.10      The responsibility for the overall design, construction and opera-
tion of the water supply and sewer systems is determined by the size of the
community to be served. For those communities with a population of less than
500 persons, the systems are planned and operated directly by the Ministry of
Public Health. For those communities with more than 500 persons, the systems
are designed and operated by the Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Nacionales - IDAAN, which is a government-owned agency and which operates a
network of fifty water supply and fourteen sewer systems throughout the
country. IDAAN, whose organization and functions are described in Chapter 2,
services about 900,000 people, or 54% of the population.
1.11      The Government's effort in improving sanitation facilities has been
costly. Sectorial planning has been weak, leading to over investment. The
rapid expansion resulting from the large programs has taxed the managerial,
organizational, and financial structure of the sector, making it imperative
to introduce substantial reforms if additional investments to meet the growing
demand for services are to be effectively carried out. Further, the sector
has been financed through large contributions from the Central Government.



-4-
Past Investments
1.12      As shown in Table 1-2, annual investments in the sector increased
from US$5.3 million in 1971 to US$14.6 million in 1974, and investment for
the 1971-75 period totalled US$55.8 million which is equivalent to an average
of US$35/capita. Of the total investments, 34% was financed from the Central
Government Budget; 3% from IDAAN cash generation; 7% from Domestic credits;
and the remaining 56% from foreign credits.
Table 1-2: Past Investments in the Sector in US$ Thousands
Source                               Years
of           1962-
Funds          1970        1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      Total
Internal     6,323       1,525    4,663    3,462    5,388    5,444    26,805
Domestic
Creditor     -           -         -       1,500      857    1,800       4,157
USAID         9,055      3,364    5,638    7,799    7,602    3,076    36,534
IDB          4,732         399       921       160      800    1,410       8,422
Total        20,110      5,288   11,222   12,921   14,647   11,730    75,918
1.13      External assistance for the sector started about fourteen years
ago. Since then, US$53 million was committed by international lending insti-
tutions. USAID has already made five loans totalling US$37 million to IDAAN,
but does not plan any future water supply lending. The Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank (IDB) on its part has made three loans totalling US$13.7 million
to IDAAN for water supply projects in rural areas, and intends to limit its
activities to the smaller cities and rural areas. In addition, IDAAN had
received a loan of US$2 million in the context of the former "Alliance for
Progress. The Bank of Tokyo made a medium-term loan of US$1.8 million to
IDAAN and the Chase Manhattan Bank made another medium-term loan of US$1.5
million. In general, these loans have been disbursed on a satisfactory
basis.
Water Rate Policy
1.14      Tariffs, which were increased in April 1975 for the first time in
20 years, had remained unchanged for a number of reasons. Firstly, IDAAN
in addition to normal water rates, charges customers for a valorization fee,
which is a repayment to IDAAN for capital investments in extension or im-
provement of distribution facilities. Secondly, the marginal cost of water
purchased from the Panama Canal Company has been kept low because the
company's water facilities assets have already been amortized and, thirdly,
investments over the past 15 years have been entirely financed by Government
equities and loans.
1.15      The situation is changing rapidly with the higher marginal cost of
water produced by the Government-owned facilities. Moreover, IDAAN is facing
an increasing debt service burden as a result of past capital investments in



- 5 -
the sector. Recognizing this, the Government in April 1975 authorized IDAAN
to increase water rates for domestic consumption in all cities but Panama
and Colon; and for commercial and industrial users nationwide. The average
rate including valorization tax, now stands at US$0.65/1000 US gallons con-
sumed, including sewerage services. IDAAN also changed its tariff structure
from the declining block-rate that it had applied since its creation in 1961
to the present uniform tariff.
1.16      The 1975 tariff increases, however, were not enough to offset in-
creasing operating costs and meet the capital requirements of the sector.
In addition, the present tariff structure is not progressive. Water rates
will be progressively increased during the execution of the proposed project,
so that by the end of 1978, the rates including valorization tax will have
almost doubled their 1975 level to US$1.03/1,000 US gallons. The Government
has also undertaken to carry out a study to assess the impact of the existing
tariff structure on income redistribution, with the view to revising the
tariff structure, if necessary, so that higher income groups bear a larger
proportion of the costs.
1.17      For the rural water supply systems which are financed by the
Ministry of Public Health, no standard water rates are applied. Water is
generally served at communal points (standpipes), though individual connec-
tions are encouraged by the Ministry. These rural communities organize
cooperatives to collect fixed monthly fees for financing current and normal
operations. More specific maintenance works are performed by IDAAN as a
service to the communities.
Government Objectives
1.18      The Government is making every effort to correct problems which
have constrained effective development of the sector, and has prepared a
national program whose goal is to provide by 1980 adequate water supply
facilities to at least 85% of the population. The program aims at instal-
ling water supply systems in poor urban areas to meet the requirements
resulting from the inflow of rural migrants; increasing services in rural
areas, and providing adequate service to the industrial and commercial
sector. Investments in water will be geared not only to expanding capa-
city and distribution systems, but also at optimizing the use of existing
capacity.
1.19      IDAAN is now installing public water systems in about 106 communi-
ties with populations between 500 and 2,000 reaching together a total popu-
lation of about 143,000. In addition, 29 rural water systems will be extended
and improved in the next two years.- To meet overall sectorial objectives, the
Government has prepared a US$57 million investment program distributed as
follows: US$20 million for water supply in urban areas; US$10 million for
sewerage in urban areas; and US$27 million for water supply and sewerage in
provincial towns and rural areas. IDAAN accounts for US$54 million of the
total investment.



- 6 -
1.20      The major risk to an orderly development of the above program is
expected to be poor planning by IDAAN and the Government. There is a ten-
dency in IDAAN to equate "bigger" with "better". Another risk in the rural
sector is the wide dispersion of communities which makes per capita invest-
ments relatively high. Some 220,000 inhabitants are distributed in 200
localities with populations between 500 and 2,000: about 578,000 live in more
than 9,000 localities with populations of less than 500.
Bank Objectives for the Sector
1.21      The proposed project supports the Government's objectives.  It will
aim primarily at expanding water supply to the poor areas in five of Panama's
urban centers, as well as a national metering program, and includes a substan-
tial component of technical assistance to aid in strengthening the planning
process and improving the organizational, managerial, and financial viability
of the key agency in the sector, IDAAN.



CHAP1IER 2
THE BORROWFR
Introduction
,.-1      The borrowing and executing agency will be the national water
3,u[,nly and sewerage authority, the Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Nacionales - IDAAN, which operates a network of fifty water supply and four-
te;n sewer systems in 90 communities throughout the country.  It executes
about 95% of the annual investments in the sector, so that its development
plans constitute an integral part of the overall plans of the entire sector.
Alti-rugh IDAAN reports to the Ministry of Public Health on technical matters,
investment priorities are decided by the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy.
Organi-z'tion
2.0'      IDAAN was created in 1961 (Law No. 98 of December 29) by a special
act of Congress. It is an autonomous Government entity which consists of a
se> en-member Board of Directors and is headed by an Executive Director who
is tippointed by the President of Panama. The Board of Directors is presided
over by the Minister of Public Health, and consists of one representative from
the 'Ministry of Public Health, the Controller General, the Panamanian Society
of Eng,Lr.eers and Architects, the Ministry of Housing, the Colon Chamber
of Commerce and the Panama Association of Property Owners. Representatives
are appointed for a 4-year period, and must be approved by the President of
ilaia1fia and confirmed by the Legislative Assembly.
2.03      TDAAN is headquartered in Panama City, but maintains regional offices
in seven of the ten provinces.  Its organizational structure is shown in Fig.
2.1. IDAAN is divided into three major departments - technical, operational
and administrative/financial, each headed by a Director reporting directly to
the Exec-itjLve Director.  A fourth area, the Planning Office, is responsible
For pr<-7aring short and long-term investment plans, overall budgeting and
tariff studies. In practice, the Planning Office functions as an extension of
the office of the Executive Director, and acts as the liaison between IDAAN
and the Government departments, as well as international lending institutions.
Personnel Review
2.04      At the present time IDAAN has a total of 1,718 staff members in its
h cadquarters and regional offices, amounting to a level of nearly two employees
per 1,000 persons served. Insofar as an index of one employee per 1,000 per-
sons seiv:d is generally considered as more than adequate, the existing level
in- cates that IDAAN is overstaffed.  A management assistance program to be
mana,ed by the Bank will assist IDAAN in developing an austerity program
centering on, but not necessarily restricted to, economy of expenditures for



- 8 -
labor. Among the 46 engineers working in IDAAN, seven have specialized
training in sanitary engineering, eight in chemical engineering while the
balance are civil engineers. Of the 1,718 staff members, 273 are in the
Technical Department, 984 in the Operational Department, 367 in the Admin-
istrative/Financial Department and 94 in the Office of the Executive Director.
2.05      One of the major objectives of IDAAN should be to increase the
level of efficiency and effectiveness of its financial management. This could
be best accomplished by upgrading the currently existing Planning Office,
which should be given the additional responsibility for evaluating various
alternative financial and accounting policies, cash flow forecasting, rate
studies, and investment planning and capital markets. The Management Assist-
ance Program provides funds to assist IDAAN in achieving these objectives.
Billing and Collection
2.06      IDAAN customers are presently billed monthly for up to four services:
water consumption, valorization for water supply, valorization for sewer sys-
tems and solid waste collection (this last tax is collected on behalf of the
municipalities). Water meters are read monthly, and where there are no
meters, consumption is estimated. The readings and estimates are sent to the
Data Processing Ofice for the preparation of bills. However, some customers
are not billed, and the number of bills is always less than the number of
connections. Considerable time (2 to 3 months) also elapses between the time a
new customer starts receiving water service, is registered in the computer
customer master file, and receives his first bill. The reverse occurs when
the water service is disconnected; the customer continues to be billed for a
service which has been long discontinued.
2.07      Collections are received from customers either in payment of uti-
lity services, the billings for which have been prepared by the computer and
recorded as a customer receivable in a computer-maintained file, or in pay-
ment of other services such as installation charges or guarantee deposits,
which are not recorded as part of the computer accounting system. Customers
can either make their payments at the central office of IDAAN in Panama City,
or to designated commercial banks and agencies. Up to 35% of IDAAN's bills
are outstanding for more than four months, which for the most part, is the
result of Government agencies not paying their water bills. The allowance
for doubtful accounts receivable, after remaining unchanged since 1966, was
increased to a more satisfactory level in 1975.
2.08      The present internal control of billing and collection procedures
is weak.  As part of the management assistance program, the following con-
trols would be implemented;
(i) a proper system of accounting for all water meters in
service, including procedures to reconcile this inform-
ation with that contained in the computer customer master
file, and with that entered in the meter reading books;
(ii) proper procedures to coordinate investigation and follow-
up of billing errors;



- 9 -
(iii)  implementing adequate input and output controls, including
edit routines that would satisfy generally accepted audit
controls; and
(iv)  proper procedures for reconciling daily cash receipts,
to total postings to individual accounts.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
2.09      The accounting system of IDAAN is computerized, but does not,
however, provide for the separation of costs by specific work functions,
such as reading of meters, repairing of pipes, connecting or reconnecting
of customers, or for the segregation of operating costs of each system.
2.10      Some improper procedures and practices are currently followed
by IDAAN. For instance, when part of a system is replaced by new equipment,
its actual cost is not removed from the accounting records. As a conse-
quence, the book value of assets in service is overstated, as is the depre-
ciation. Moreover, IDAAN's procedures for allocating overhead expenses
which are incurred in construction of new plants, shows that works in pro-
gress are overstated, and consequently, plants in service (and depreciation)
are understated. Safeguards should be implemented to ensure that the full
amounts of capitalized costs are completely allocated to specific projects.
This will be covered under the management assistance program.
2.11      IDAAN presently records the valorization taxes in its books only
after these taxes are billed. While the total of the valorization assess-
ment for each customer is determined at the time the original facilities
relating to the assessment are constructed, the customer is allowed to pay
the total amount in periodic installments over several years (currently over
20 years). Interest at the rate of 6% is charged on the unpaid balance, and
is included in the amount of each installment. However, the aggregate amount
due from all customers is not disclosed on IDAAN's financial statements.
2.12      IDAAN performs annual physical inventory controls and recorded
levels of inventories are reliable. Those controls are carried out manually
by two units of IDAAN: the Inventory Control Section and the Accounting
Department. The allowance for inventory obsolescence appears low and should
be increased substantially.
2.13      The ability to make more useful and timely information available
through the accounting system is one of the major changes required to make
the financial reporting of IDAAN acceptable. Moreover, the determination
of costs by function will be necessary if, in the future, IDAAN decides to
establish its water rates based on the relative costs of serving the dif-
ferent classes of customers. The redesign of IDAAN's accounting system
will be part of the management assistance program, and will focus on unified
charts of account, uniform data collection, and establishing target goals and
achievement evaluation.



- 10 -
Planning and Budgeting
2.14      The Planning Office is responsible for the development of formal
programs for evaluating the various financial and technical alternatives
available to IDAAN. It is also responsible for the preparation and control
of current and capital budgets, and evaluating alternative tariff structures.
However, organization of the current annual budget emphasizes financial input
rather than financial output, and as part of the management assistance program,
attention will be focused on improving the effectiveness of the planning and
budgeting function. The planning and budgeting personnel will be trained to
evaluate the financial viability of proposed projects, and their attendant
impact on the sector finances.
Audit
2.15      The emphasis of the Internal Audit Department, which reports directly
to the Executive Director, has been almost entirely on the auditing of expen-
ses; virtually no auditing of revenues is conducted. The Department has almost
no expertise in computer technology, and as a result the internal control over
the computer has been largely ignored. In addition, the Department conducts
no procedural audits, nor does it contribute significantly to the management
style of IDAAN. Improving the performance of this section would provide IDAAN
with an important tool for controlling all aspects of its financial operations.
The internal audit section will receive in-service training under the manage-
ment assistance program.
2.16      The external audit of IDAAN is conducted by the Controller General,
an agency of the National Government. This agency maintains an office and
full-time staff at IDAAN. Although the practises and procedures of the
Controller General are comparable to those of an independent auditor, there
are some important differences between the two functions. The primary concern
of the office of the Controller General is to induce compliance with estab-
lished policies and procedures. There is a need to obtain reliable financial
data prepared by professional practitioners independent of management, both in
fact and in mental attitude. During loan negotiations, assurances were
obtained that IDAAN will engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
to audit its annual financial statements beginning with the fiscal year 1976.
Assurance were also obtained from IDAAN that its annual financial statements,
certified by its independent auditors, will be submitted to the Bank not later
than four months after the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Reporting
2.17      The financial information that has been traditionally provided to
management has generally not been in a format which is useful for the purposes
of financial planning and control; it has been frequently inaccurate and has
not been made available on a timely basis. This has made it difficult to
compare and assess financial statements, pinpoint capital needs, prepare



- 11 -
accurate budgets, and to measure the overall efficiency and performance
of the various systems. Under the proposed loan, IDAAN will retain the
services of consultants to improve the accounting and reporting system.
Work Coordination
2.18      The overall coordination between the departments needs to be
strengthened, and significantly so between those departments having plan-
ning and financial management responsibilities. Poorly defined duties
and overlapping of work has promoted a flood of encyclopedic reporting
with an accompanying loss of vital information. The problem of ensuring
the integrity of the information has been largely ignored, so that the
paperwork, in many instances, consists of incomplete or inadequate data.
The situation is particularly acute between the Accounting Department and
the Data Processing Section, and as one of the consequences, the Accounting
Department places little reliability on the information it receives from
the Data Processing Section.
2.19      The basic lack of confidence, in what must increasingly become
the primary source of management information, has inhibited the develop-
ment of an effective reporting system. Moreover, there is a basic lack of
understanding of the fundamentals of electronic data processing among the
personnel in the Operating, Accounting and Internal Audit offices. On the
other hand, the staff of the Data Processing Section lacks full comprehen-
sion of the reporting requirements of the Operating and Accounting Depart-
ments. Such a situation is unsatisfactory, not only because of the adverse
effect it has on interdepartmental coordination, but also because it weakens
overall internal controls.
Insurance
2.20      All IDAAN properties are adequately insured against loss or damage.
In addition, all supply and construction contracts on the proposed project
would be insured against loss and damage in shipment, accidents, fire and
property damage.
Management Assistance and Training Program
2.21      The proposed project includes a US$300,000 component to finance
a management assistance and training program. The management assistance
program will last about two years and will use the services of consultants,
who will assist in the following specific areas:
(i) definition of functions of each department;
(ii) establishment of personnel needs;
(iii) design and implementation of an effective billing and
collection system;



- 12 -
(iv)  improvement of accounting practices and procedures;
(v) development of computer-based accounting and reporting
systems;
(vi)  design of an audit program; and
(vii) preparation of effective planning and budgeting sytems.
2.22      Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that IDAAN will
carry out the management assistance program with consultants acceptable to
the Bank, who will be hired by January 1, 1977 and that IDAAN will review the
progress of the management assistance program with the Bank. With reference to
the training program, assurances were obtained, that IDAAN will submit a
detailed schedule and description for Bank approval within one year of loan
signing and will hire consultants acceptable to the Bank to carry out the
program.
2.23      The training program, which will be carried out over a period of
three years, will use the services of consultants to train IDAAN staff in
the following fields: (i) administration; (ii) project evaluation (tech-
nical, financial, and economic); (iii) auditing; and (iv) technical (including
treatment plant opertions, leakage detection and pitometric surveys in water
distribution networks). The training courses will be held in Panama City
and will include the technical, economic and financial analysis of projects.
Short courses on treatment plant operations, leakage detection and pitometric
survey in water distribution networks, would be given by individual consultants.
In addition, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and selected manage-
ment consultants would direct the training in administration, finance and
accounting. Emphasis would also be placed on the training needs of non-
professional staff such as plant operators and other distribution system
employees.
2.24      Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that IDAAN will
carry out the training program with the assistance of consultants acceptable
to the Bank, and will submit to the Bank for review and approval, a detailed
description of the training program, and a schedule of implementation with-
in one year from the date of loan signing.



REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
PANAMA WATER StFPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO GE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES - I.O.A.A.N.
FIG. 2-1 ORGANIZATION CHART - 1974
L                                             -   -
DIRCCNORCTE                                                    ZN                             CRA                                    NAAN
FACILITIES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FANI FOIIIS  OTATS SF IES                                                                                   ARHUE            SEVCSOEAEN



I



CHAPTER 3
DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Scope
3.01      Demand and consumption characteristics exclude some small rural
areas for which the Ministry of Health is responsible. The Government has
maintained a decennial census since 1930 and population statistics are con-
sidered reliable, as are the water production statistics for Panama City and
Colon. Bulk water is purchased from the Panama Canal Company which maintains
and checks flow meters monthly. Statistics for water consumption, however,
are less reliable, since more than 50% of the connections are not metered.
Future consumption estimates have allowed for the expanded metering program,
the expected tariff increases, and the impact on revenues of extension of
services to low incomie/low consumption areas.
Present Production and Consumption
3.02      Until late 1974, all potable water consumed in Panama City was
purchased from the Panama Canal Company which owns and operates the Mira-
flores Water Treatment Plant located on the Pacific entrance of the canal.
Since November 1974, IDAAN has operated its own production facilities, the
Chilibre Plant, which has a production capacity in excess of 70 mgd. Added
to the 30 mgd that the Panama Canal Company is committed to sell to IDAAN,
available production capacity would be more than 100 mgd. The combined 1975
production from both sources was 56 mgd and existing capacity can meet the
city's consumption requirements beyond the year 2000.
3.03      During 1975, water production and consumption for Panama City
totalled 20.5 and 14 billion US gallons respectively. Unaccounted-for water,
which was 6.5 billion US gallons, represented 32% of production. Production
and consumption statistics prior to 1975 show that unaccounted-for water is
lower but these are considered unreliable. The population served was 436,400
persons. Per capita production and consumption was 129 and 88 gallons/day
respectively, and although consumption does not appear excessive by inter-
national comparisons, the low number of metered connections makes it diffi-
cult to establish whether the high proportion of unaccounted-for water is
a function of the distribution network, improper billing practices, or both.
3.04      Water for Colon is purchased from the Panama Canal Company which
supplies the city from its production facilities, the Mount Hope Treatment
Plant located on the Atlantic entrance of the canal. After improvements in
the Mount Hope Plant are complete, the Panama Canal Company will be able to
increase its supply to Colon from 10.5 mgd to 12 mgd. Currently the plant is
producing at maximum capacity. During 1975, water production and consumption
for Colon totalled 3.9 and 2.7 billion US gallons respectively. Unaccounted-
for water, which was 1.2 billion US gallons, represented 31% of production.
The population served was 82,500 persons, and like Panama City, per capita
production and consumption was 129 and 88 gallons/day respectively.



I



- 15 -
3.05      Except for a small quantity purchased from the Panama Canal Company,
water for the Interior is entirely produced by IDAAN. About 63% of total
production is from surface water and the remainder from groundwater. During
1975, water production and consumption in the Interior totalled 7.2 and 3.5
billion US gallons respectively. Unaccounted-for water, which was 3.7 billion
US gallons, represented 51% of production. The population served was 376,300
persons, but unlike Panama City and Colon, per capita production in Chorrera
during 1975 amounted to 89 US gallons/day. Production and consumption charac-
teristics are shown in Table 3-1.
Composition of Consumption
3.06      Most of the water consumed in Panama City is for household and domes-
tic use. Residential users account for almost 80% of total consumption. The
results of a survey conducted in 1974 on water consumption patterns in Panama
City showed that approximately 3% of the customers account for 43% of the
total consumption; about 80% of the customers account for 18% of the total con-
sumption; and 17% of the customers account for 2% of the consumption. The
1975 water consumption was distributed among the following users:
Panama City            Colon             Interior
Consumer Category           106 US gals.   %   106 US gals.   %   106 uS gals.   %
Residential                    10,920      78      2,136        79     2,584        73
Autonomous Entities               280       2          -         -         -         -
Municipalities                    140       1         27         1        71         2
Central Government                560       4        190         7       496        14
Commercial & Industrial         2,100      15        351        13       389        11
Total               14,000      100     2,704       100     3,540       100
3.07      The number and density of water connections in Panama City and Colon
has been high.  This was partly due to the fact that multiple dwelling apart-
ment buildings are treated as a single connection, thereby increasing the
number of persons per connection, and due partly to the probable existence of
a number of clandestine connections. As water services are extended to resi-
dential and fringe areas, which have a larger number of single family dwel-
lings, the number of persons per connection will continue to decrease. In the
Interior, the pattern is reversed. As water services are extended to the low
income groups, who traditionally have larger families, the number of persons
per conection will continue to increase. Table 3-2 shows the trend over the
last 6 years:



- 16 -
Table 3-1 Population and Water Qonsamption , 1971 - 1984
Population                                             Volumes of Water
Total        Population Served      Water, J0o  Gallons/year    Unaccounted-  Consumption
Year   Metropolitan       Population                                                          For-%  of       Per Capita
Area of  1         1,000       1,000   % of Total    Distributed         Sales      Distributed   Gallons/day
1971   Panama                428.5       385.6       90.0         12,982.0      10,715.0         17.5             92.2
Colon                 80.3        76.8       95.6          2,985.0        1,970.0         34.0           106.5
Interior             962.5       222.7       23.1          3,080.0        2,349.0         23.7            37.9
1972   Panama                438.3       394.5       90.0         13,740.0      11,871.0         13.6             95.4
Colon                 81.4        78.4       96.3          3,077.0        2,019.0         34.4           107.5
Interior             996.5       249.2       25.0          3,700.0        2,358.0         36.3            40.7
1973   Panama                448.4       408.0       91.0         14,224.0      11,813.1         16.9             95.5
Colon                 82.6        80.2       97.1           3,575.0       2,487.9         30.4           122.1
Interior           1,031.7       266.2       25.8          4,441.0        2,784.2         37.3            45.7
1974   Panama                458.7       422.0       92.0         15,164.9      12,071.1         20.4             98.5
Colon                 83.8        81.3       97.0          3,648.0        2,525.9         30.7           122.9
Interior           1,068.6       303.3       28.4          5,356.0        2,903.6         45.8            48.4
1975   Panama                469.3       436.4       93.0         20,535.0      14,000.0         31.8            128.9
Colon                 85.0        82.5       97.0          3,869.0        2,704.0         30.1           128.5
Interior           1,106.9       376.3       34.0           7,236.0       3,540.0         51.1            52.7
1976   Panama                480.1       446.5       93.0         20,255.1      14,178.6         30.0            124.3
Colon                 86.3        83.6       96.8          3,886.4        2,712.7         30.2           127.4
Interior           1,146.9       407.2       35.5          8,043.3       4,102.1          49.0            54.1
1977   Panama                491.1       461.6       94.0         20,146.9      14,304.3         29.0            119.6
Colon                  87.5       84.8       96.9          3,839.1        2,683.5         30.1           124.0
Interior           1,188.9       439.9       37.0          8,058.0        4,351.3         46.0            50.2
1978   Panama                502.4       477.3       95.0         20,058.9      14,442.4         28.0            115.1
Colon                 88.8        86.0       96.8           3,808.1       2,661.9         30.1           121.3
Interior           1,232.5       474.5       38.5           7,991.2       4,555.0         43.0            46.1
1979   Panama                514.0       493.4       96.0         20,451.4      14,929.5         27.0            113.5
Colon                  90.1       87.3       96.9          3,860.1        2,702.1         30.0           121.1
Interior           1,277.9       511.2       40.0          8,178.8        4,907.3         40.0            43.8
1980   Panama                525.8       510.0       97.0         20,853.8      15,431.8         26.0            112.0
Colon                  91.4       88.5       96.8          3,913.3        2,739.3         30.0           121.1
Interior           1,333.6       553.4       41.5          8,568.4        5,312.4         38.0            42.4
1981   Panama                535.8       525.1       98.0         21,184.9      15,888.7         25.0            110.5
Colon                 93.1        90.1       96.8          3,927.9        2,788.8         29.0           119.4
Interior           1,390.1       597.7       43.0          8,965.0       5,737.6          36.0            41.1
1982   Panama                546.0       535.1       98.0         21,304.3      16,191.3         24.0            109.1
Colon                 94.8        91.6       96.6          3,937.8        2,835.2         28.0           117.8
Interior           1,449.4       645.0       44.5          9,381.4        6,191.7         34.0            39.8
1983   Panama                556.3       545.2       98.0         21,424.5      16,496.9         23.0            107.7
Colon                  96.5        93.3      96.5           3,955.9       2,887.8         27.0           116.2
Interior           1,511.9       695.5       46.0           9,818.4       6,676.5         32.0            38.7
1984   Panama                566.9       555.6       98.0         21,553.3      16,811.6         22.0            106.3
Colon                 98.4        94.9       96.4          3,969.3        2,937.3         26.0           114.6
Interior           1,577.2       749.2       47.5         10,274.1        7,191.9         30.0            37.6
1/ In the case of Panama and Colon, the Metropolitan Area also includes the population of the surrounding areas
which will be served by the proposed project.



- 17 -
Table 3-2: Number and Density of Water Connections
Number of Connections                  Persons per Connections*
Year      Panama      Colon      Interior          Panama      Colon      Interior
1970     24,887       2,773           -             15.1        27.3
1971      27,806      2,855           -             13.9        26.9
1972      31,054      3,271           -             12.7        24.0           -
1973     33,443       3,345      36,173             12.2        24.0         7.4
1974      36,533      4,052      38,490             11.6        20.1         7.9
1975     40,872       4,185      39,133             10.7        19.7         9.6
*    Populations served by IDAAN in the areas involved are given in Table 3-3.
Population Forecast
3.08      The growth in urban population is expected to increase from an annual
rate of 4.2% during the 1960-70 period to 4.6% during the 1970-80 period. This
is partly due to rural migration toward the provincial towns, and partly due
to natural growth rate. The trend is expected to continue during the next two
decades. The growth rates for Arraijan, Chorrera and Panama City are all
expected to decrease slightly during the 1970-80 period. Colon, which is en-
claved by the Panama Canal Zone, is expected to reach a saturation point of
84,000 persons by 1990. Estimated midyear population in 1980, 1990 and 2000
are shown in Table 3-3 and Fig. 3-1.
Table 3-3:  Mid-year Populations* and Annual Decennial Growth Rates
1950         1960          1970           1980          1990           2000
Urban      Persons   %  Persons   %  Persons   %  Persons   %  Persons   %   Persons
Arraijan      1.9  1.6      2.2  3.5       3.1  2.1      3.8  1.8       4.6  1.6      5.4
Chorrera      8.7  4.6    13.7  6.4    26.0  5.3    44.4  4.8    71.5  4.0   106.7
Panama      127.9  7.6   273.4  2.4   348.7  2.3   437.6  1.9   530.5  1.6   623.3
Colon        52.2  1.3    59.6  1.3    67.7  1.3    77.0  0.9    84.3    -    84.3
Other        99.0    -    97.3  9.2   233.9  8.1   511.8  5.0   835.6  4.3  1274.3
289.7  4.3   446.2  4.2   679.4  4.6  1074.6  3.5  1526.5  3.2  2094.0
Rural       515.6  2.0   629.3  1.7   748.7  1.6   873.3  1.4  1006.4  1.2  1136.1
Total       805.3  3.0  1075.5  2.8  1428.1  3.1  1947.9  2.7  2532.9  2.4  3230.1
*    Populations are in thousands of persons.  1950-1970 are census results.
1980-2000 are based on a geometric trend in growth rates and Government
projections.



- 18 -
Forecasts of Consumption
3.09      Given the expected population growth, the metering program, and the
tariff increases during the 1976-80 period, total consumption is expected to
increase at an average annual rate of 2.0% for Panama City, 0.8% for Colon,
and 8.3% for the Interior. As water meters are installed and the leak detec-
tion programs carried out, unaccounted-for water, which now stands at 32% in
Panama City, 30% in Colon, and 51% in the Interior, will progressively decline
to 22%, 26% and 30% respectively by the end of 1984. The projected per capita
consumption in Colon is conservative in so far as it excludes additional
demands that may result from the Government's plan for industrialization of
the Colon area. The project has been designed so that the proposed facilities
could be upgraded at a later date to satisfy the additional requirements.
Forecasts of water production and consumption patterns are shown in Table
3-1.
3.10      On the basis of available data, demand during the peak-period days
is 20% more than the aggregate daily average. Correspondingly, demand during
peak-period hours is 50% higher than the aggregate daily average. To the
extent possible, large production fluctuations are evened out through the
use of water storage tanks.



REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG 3-1 POPULATION FORECASTS
4
3                                    -
2
(j3  Consus Data .
Cu rent Estinn  ates
3                   |_____________                    _ ___ __                                            _    __G,aphic._ Fitting   =  X
3 / >~~~TTA  URA                               PANAMA C ITY/_
2                                                        ____ ___ ___ ___
2
0
0.1                                                                                             _  _  _  _  _
4                   : 
8                                      )
z     7
0
0..1
YEARS        ARAJA
World Sank-15643






- 20 -
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 3-2 FORECAST OF WATER CONSUMPTION
100                    CHILIBRE PLANT & MIRAFLORES PLANT - 100 MGD.
90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0*0     MAXIMUM DAY CONSUMPTION IN
80                                    7~~~~~~~~~~~#  PANAMA C ITY
80
70 1-STAGE -CHI LIBRE PLANT      70 MGD./
'E 60                      AVERAG E CONSUMPTION IN PANAMA CITY
70
D 50
G
0
B0   40
PURCHASE FROM CANAL 70NE -
MOUNT HOPE PLANT - 12 MGD.
TOTAL CAPACITY AVAILABLE -16 MGD.
30   -
lo                                    MAXIMUM DAY CONSUMPTION
1-S E P D PG                                                   AVERAGE CONSUMPTION
20 1-G  P          P
1975          1980          1985          191952000                                 2005          2010
YEARS
World Bank-15644






CHAPTER 4
THE PROJECT
Introduction
Scope and Design Objectives
4.01      The project involves improvements in the water supply systems of
the cities of Panama, Colon, Chorrera, and Arraijan, and the fishing port
of Vacamonte. It would also contribute to institutional and operational
improvements in the sector. The project would: (i) provide water to about
106,000 of the poorest people living in Panama City and suburbs of Colon
by extending the distribution systems to low income areas of those cities;
(ii) increase the production and transmission capacity of potable water to
Colon by one third and rehabilitate its existing distribution system; (iii)
provide adequate water supply to the low income towns of Chorrera and
Arraijan; (iv) supply water to the fishing port of Vacamonte, which is being
constructed with Bank financing; (v) reduce waste and losses in the existing
system where only 40% of the overall water connections are metered and un-
accounted-for water reaches 51 percent of production; (vi) improve the sewer-
age system in Panama City's low income district of El Chorrillo; and (vii)
improve the efficiency of IDAAN's management and operations.
4.02      The physical components of the project are designed to permit
phased expansion in capacity as demand increases. The first stage of con-
struction should satisfy the demand requirements until about 1995.
Existing Facilities
Colon and Its Suburbs
4.03      Colon and its suburbs extend along the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway to
Sabanita, and along the Alejandro River Highway to Portobelo. The city is
enclaved in the Panama Canal Zone, but is sovereign territory of Panama, and
access is guaranteed through a corridor. Colon is the industrial centre of
Panama, and with a flourishing duty-free trade zone, has become a well known
distributing centre. The city's population, however, is approaching the
saturation point, and future development will have to take place in the
adjacent communities.
4.04      The area is supplied with water from the Mount Hope Filtration
Plant, located in the Canal Zone, and owned and operated by the Panama Canal
Company. The original system was started in 1904, and was limited to the
immediate area around the canal entrance, but throughout the years has been
extended to the entire City, which serves an area of 230 hectares. The raw
water intake is fed by gravity from Gatun Lake which is part of the water ways
of the Panama Canal. The plant, which was built in 1913, is in good condition,



- 22 -
and uses the conventional treatment process of aeration, pre and post chlorina-
tion, flocculation, sedimentation, and rapid sand filters. Existing production
capacity is 14 mgd, of which 10 mgd is sold to IDAAN and 4 mgd is sold else-
where. Plans are underway to increase the amount of water available to IDAAN
to 12 mgd, but space limitations preclude a major expansion of the plant,
and demand will soon exceed the amount of water available.
4.05      Filtered water is pumped from the plant through two 20-inch pipe-
lines to Colon where distribution within the city is handled by IDAAN. Ser-
vice storage is located in the Canal Zone as there are no distributing
reservoirs in the IDAAN system. Normally, pressures in the network range from
40 to 50 psi. The present system has a total of about 36 kilometers of pipes
which are in poor condition. There are presently 4,185 water-connections
servicing approximately 85,000 persons. The high per capita water production
and low peak-hour demand (only 23% higher than the average production) is in-
dicative of substantial leakage from distribution mains and service pipes.
The quality of water is good.
Panama City
4.06      With the construction of the Chilibre Plant, IDAAN has the installed
capacity to meet the entire demand requirements of Panama City beyond the
year 2000. The Government's objective, which the Bank supports, is to make
this excess capacity available to everyone, and in particular, the district
of "El Chorrillo", a densely populated area of old wood houses (700 persons/
ha), where 30,000 of the poorest of Panama City live. Water and sewer pipes
were built early in this century and are extensively corroded. As part of an
urban renewal and housing program, the Government is rebuilding the water and
sewer network. The quality of water is good.
Chorrera
4.07      The Chorrera water supply system was built by IDAAN in 1964.  It is
fed by a 3-mgd conventional water filtration plant. Raw water is drawn from
the Caimito River whose safe yield is about 8.2 mgd. Presently, the plant
operation is impaired by lack of reserve units in the low and high lift pump-
ing stations, by inadequate storage in the system and frequent power failures.
The quality of water is good.
Arraijan and Vacamonte
4.08      The water supply in Arraijan consists of shallow wells of low yield
equipped with old reciprocating pumps, and of a distribution system which
consists of galvanized pipes of less than 3 inches in diameter. An entirely
new network should be planned for Arraijan. At present there is no water
supply in the fishing port of Vacamonte. Water requirements for this port
are projected to reach 0.2 mgd by 1990.



- 23 -
Definition of Scope
Colon Subproject
4.09      A Government Development and Zoning Plan has been prepared by the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy. Among the items contemplated is
the extension of the duty-free zone and the location of light manufacturing
businesses. The project supports this program by providing water production
and distribution facilities, and the physical components of the project permit
phased expansion as demand increases.
4.10      In selecting the design criteria, the following alternatives were
studied: (i) construction of production facilities to meet total demand
requirements without purchasing water from the Panama Canal Company; or (ii)
purchase of 12 mgd from the Panama Canal Company and supplemented by:
(a) Utilizing the excess capacity of the Chilibre Plant by
bringing the water by pipeline:
(b) Constructing additional production facilities and utilizing
groundwater resources;
(c) Constructing additional production facilities and utilizing
surface water resources.
Utilizing the excess capacity of the Chilibre Plant was discounted because:
(i) the high capital costs of constructing a pipeline; (ii) high operating
and maintenance costs that would result from the need to pump the water
from Chilibre to Colon. Groundwater resources were discounted because of
geological uncertainties; but as part of the final design, an evaluation
of groundwater resources will be made.
4.11      The construction of additional production facilities utilizing
surface water resources is the least-cost solution, and is therefore recom-
mended. The water intake, however, is located on a strip of land on Lake
Gatun, which is part of the Panama Canal Zone and consequently the United
States has jurisdiction over it. Gatun Lake is also under Panama Canal
jurisdiction, and IDAAN is requesting a license to locate the intake and
pumping equipment on the shore of the lake, and to use the lake water for
supply of Colon. Obtaining the license is a condition of disbursement for
the Colon subproject.
Arraijan/Vacamonte Subproject
4.12      Preliminary studies indicated that the collection of groundwater
is the most economical and certain way to meet the short-term demand require-
ments. However, contrary to earlier reports, recent information indicated
that groundwater may not be available in sufficient quantities, and conse-
quently, IDAAN is studying the feasibility of connecting Arraijan and Vacamonte
to the Mira Flores treatment plant.



- 24 -
4.13      Arraijan and Vacamonte are located on the west side of the Panama
Canal Zone, and are within 10 to 15 miles from Panama City. A pipeline con-
necting these communities to the Mira Flores treatment pland has two advan-
tages: (i) long-term demand requirements would be met with a safe and reliable
source of water; (ii) the communities are relatively close to the plant so
that existing production facilities could be utilized. Recognizing this,
IDAAN is conducting negotiations with the appropriate authorities for the
exclusive use of an existing transmission pipeline through the Panama Canal
Zone that ends at the outskirts of Arraijan. This would require a license
from the United States authorities. Assurances were obtained during loan
negotiations that it will carry out technical studies to determine which one
of the alternatives is more appropriate for the supply of water to Arraijan
and Vacamonte, and based on this, the existing recommendation would be modif-
ied, if necessary.
Project Description
4.14      The location of the cities included in the project is shown on
Map 4-1. The principal elements of the Colon subproject are illustrated
on Map 4-2. The major project components are as follows:
I.   Colon Subproject
(i)  Construction of raw water intake and pumping facilities
on the Gatun Lake; installation of a 1 km., 20-inch
water transmission pipeline to transport water from an
elevation of 25 M at the intake well at Gatun Lake to an
elevation of 86 M at the Colon treatment plant; and con-
struction of the Colon water treatment plant with an
initial capacity of 4 mgd and 8 and 12 mgd respectively
in the final stages;
(ii) Installation of a 2 Km., 24-inch filtered water trans-
mission pipeline to convey treated water by gravity from
the Colon water plant to Colon and its suburbs;
(iii) Installation of distribution facilities in the low income
suburban counties of Cativa, Puerto Pilon, and Sabanita,
where 76,000 low income people live;
(iv) Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the existing distribu-
tion system, establishment of a leak detection and repair
program, pitometric investigations, installation of house
water meters, and construction of system reinforcements.
II.   Panama City Subproject
(i) Installation of water pipes and sewers in the district of
El Chorrillo, where 30,000 low income people live.



- 25 -
III.   Chorrera Subproject
(i)  Optimization of the treatment plant to increase its
present capacity of 3 mgd to 6 mgd; replacing existing
low and high lift pumps with bigger units; changing
filter sand for a duo media bed; installation of new
flocculation sedementation units;
(ii)  Improvement of distribution facilities including the
reinforcement of transmission pipelines and the pro-
vision of additional storage.
IV.   Arraijan/Vacamonte Subproject
Increase the supply of water to the town of Arraijan
and provide water to the new fishing port of Vacamonte
by either installing wells or by linking the Arraijan
system to the Mira Flores treatment plant in the
Panama Canal zone.
V.   Metering Program
(i) Purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters and
meter boxes to be installed in all IDAAN systems.
(ii) Acquisition and utilization of water meter testing
and leak detection equipment.
VI.   Management consulting services and staff training for IDAAN,
including technical assistance in organization, long-range
planning, data processing and staff training.
VII.   Engineering Services for detailed design and construction
supervision of the project.
Cost Estimates
4.15      The estimated cost of the project is US$20.5 million.  The cost
includes:
(i) 11% of construction costs for engineering ad administration;
(ii)  14% of base costs for physical contingencies;
(iii) 36% of base costs for price escalation; and
(iv)  capitalized interest and other charges during
construction.



- 26 -
Base cost estimates were verified by direct inquiries of civil works con-
tractors and equipment manufacturers, and are based on price levels of October
1975. A physical contingency of 14% on base cost estimates was allowed on
all components. A total price contingency of 35.7% was included for expected
price inflation on both local and foreign cost items, including physical con-
tingencies. This is an aggregate average of 20% in 1975, 15% in 1976, 12% in
1977 and 1978 on local expenditures, and 15% in 1975, 12% in 1976, 10% in 1977
and 8% in 1978 on foreign expenditures. Bids recently awarded for equipment
supply and civil works contracts indicate that the estimated rates of infla-
tion appear appropriate. The cost estimates are summarized as follows:



- 27 -
-------- US$ thousands ---
Item                           Local    Foreign        Total
I. COLON SUBPROJECT
Raw Water Intake                        212.1      302.6          514.7
Transmission Pipe, Land
Acquisition, Treatment Plant
and Access Roads                        861.5      935.5        1,797.0
Distribution Network                    497.6      782.3        1,279.9
Improvement of Existing System          2135       436.6          650.1
1,784.7   2, 0            4,241.7
II. PANAMA CITY SUBPROJECT
El Chorrilo System                      528.7      679.1        1,207.
III. CHORRERA SUBPROJECT
Raw Water Intake Improvements            19.9      105.1          125.0
Land Acquisition and
Treatment Plant                         469.6      536.4        1,006.0
Filtered Water Pumping
Improvements                             30.5      119.5          150.0
Distribution Network & Storage          255.5      304.5          560.0
Electrical Work                          24.5       65.5           90.0
750. 0   1,131.0        193-1.0
IV. ARRAIJAN/VACAMONTE SUBPROJECT
Land Acquisition and Well
Construction                            101.1      381.8          482.9
Distribution System & Storage           520.2      526.9        12047.1
z2-1.3   -908.7         1,530.0
V. METERING PROGRAM                         421.4     840.5         1,261.9
CONSTRUCTION COSTS                    4,156.1   6,016.3        10,172.4
VI. MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING                 180.0      120.0           300.0
VII. ENGINEERING & ADMINISTRATION (11%)       476.9     675.0        1,151.9
BASE COST                             4,813.0   6,811.3        11,624.3
VIII. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (13.5%)          650.4      920.5         1,570.9
IX. PRICE ESCALATION (35.7%)              2,510.4   2,206.0         4,716.4
PROJECT COST                          7,973.8   9,937.8        17,911.6
X. INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION            535.1   2,062.2          2,597.3
XI. TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED              8,508.9  12,000.0        20,508.9



- 28 -
Financing
4.16      Foreign exchange costs amount to US$12.0 million including US$2.1
million of interest during construction. The Bank loan would finance the
full foreign exchange costs of the project. The Government has agreed to
make an equity contribution of US$4 million to IDAAN and the balance would
come from internally generated funds. Chapter 6 analyzes the overall finan-
cial situation of IDAAN.
Implementation
4.17      The project will be carried out by IDAAN.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank will
prepare the detailed design of the project and will assist IDAAN in the
supervision of construction.  The project will be carried out during 1976-80
and the estimated annual investments by category are given in Table 4-2. A
bar chart of the work program is show-n in Fig. 4-1.
Table 4-2: Annual Project Investments in US$ Thousands
--------------- Years -----------------                     % of
Category               1976      1977      1978     1979      1980     Total      Total
Materials & Equipment    --  3,333.6  6,034.7  1,997.2  1,500.0  12,865.5           62.7
Civil Works            133.8    123.9  1,436.2  1,403.2          --   3,097.1      15.1
Foreign Consultants   134.0    206.4    161.2    172.1         20.1      693.8      3.4
Local Consultants      223.6    393.6    311.1    281.9        45.0   1,255.2       6.1
Interest and Charges   62.6    274.8    625.9    910.7    723.3   2,597.3          12.7
Total Project Cost    554.0  4,332.3  8,569.1  4,765.1  2,288.4  20,508.9    100.0
4.18      Bank staff will assist IDAAN in the preparation of:  (i) terms of
reference for contracting engineering and management consultants; (ii) annual
investment program; (iii) selection and classification of investments with
priority; and (iv) long-range sector planning. The Bank supervision and
follow-up will focus on the management assistance and training program. Three
supervision missions a year are anticipated.
4.19      The Project contains an estimated 390 man-months of consulting services
to assist in the preparation of engineering drawings and specifications, project
supervision and management assistance and training. The estimated cost of these
services including physical contingencies and price estalation is US$2 million,
or an average cost per man-month of US$5,120.
Procurement
4.20      All contracts will be awarded through international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for civil works contracts



- 29 -
under US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million, which will
be awarded on the basis of competitive local bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Foreign contractors are expected to win all contracts for plant
and pumping station equipment, water meters and pipes; Panamanian contractors
are expected to win all civil works contracts, except those for water treat-
ment plants. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15 per cent margin of preference
(customs duties are substantially higher) would be allowed for equipment
manufactured in Panama. The proposed bidding package is as follows:
Contract No.  1:  final design and construction supervision of
the project;
Contract No.  2:  supply of water meters, meter testing and leak
detection equipment;
Contract No.  3:  for supplying drilling equipment and materials,
pipe casing and well screens;
Contract No.  4:  supply of water pipes and fittings;
Contract No.  5:  drilling of test wells in Colon and construction
of production wells in Arraijan and Vacamonte;
Contract No.  6:  supply of equipment for and civil works of the
Colon treatment plant;
Contract No.  7:  supply of equipment for and civil works of the
Chorrera treatment plant;
Contract No.  8:  laying of transmission and distribution pipes in
Colon's suburbs;
Contract No.  9:  repairs to Colon City's distribution network;
Contract No. 10:  laying of transmission and distribution pipes in
Arraijan;
Contract No. 11:  laying of transmission and distribution pipes;
construction of one storage tank in Vacamonte;
Contract No. 12:  installation of transmission and distribution
pipes in Chorrera; and
Contract No. 13:  construction of one storage tank in Arraijan and
another in Chorrera.
During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with IDAAN on the number and
size of the contracts to be placed for the project as defined above, and a
Bid Package listing these contracts was included in the loan agreement with
IDAAN.



- 30 -
4.21      The project costs were developed on the basis that contractors
will be exempt from all duties and taxes on the purchase of materials and
equipment, and that all foreign personnel required will be free from local
income tax. The works will be planned so that the greatest advantage will
be taken of the dry season each year. Procurement is expected to be com-
pleted by the end of 1978.
Disbursement
4.22      The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period against the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project. Disbursements would
be made against: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports
for the project; (ii) 13.0 percent of civil works of Colon, Panama and
Chorrera sub-projects; (iii) the foreign exchange costs of foreign consulting
services; (iv) 50 percent of total expenditures for local consulting services;
and (v) interest and construction charges during construction on the Bank
loan. Table 4-4 shows annual expenditures by category.
Table 4-4: Proposed Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds in US$ Thousands
___________---Years---------------                      % of
Category                  1976    1977       1978    1979       1980     Total    Project
Materials & Equipment /1    -- 2,371.3  3,741.3  1,198.3    900.0   8,210.9    63.8
Civil Works*                  --    50.0    350.0        --        --      400.0    13.0
Foreign Consultants       134.0   206.4    161.2    172.1        20.1      693.8   100.0
Local Consultants          112.9   197.9    156.7    142.0       23.6      633.1    50.0
Interest and Charges       49.7   218.3    497.0    722.7    574.5   2,062.2    79.4
Total Bank Loan           296.6 3,043.9  4,906.2  2,235.1  1,518.2  12,000.0
*Does not include pipe installation to be 100% locally financed.
/1   Including civil works for the Colon Treatment Plant if a turnkey contract
is used.
The estimated quarterly disbursements of the loan are shown in Table 4-5.
The Closing Date would be December 31, 1980.



- 31 -
Table 4-5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements in US$ Thousands
Bank FY and      Cumulative      % of     Bank FY and        Cumulative       % of
Quarter      Disbursement   Total         Quarter        Disbursement    Total
1976/1977                                 1978/1979
1st quarter           107        0.9      1st quarter         7,447          62.1
2nd quarter           297        2.5      2nd quarter         8,247          68.7
3rd quarter           859        7.1       3rd quarter        9,109          75.9
4th quarter         1,479       12.3       4th quarter        9,673          80.6
1977/1978                                 1979/1980
1st quarter         2,381       19.8      1st quarter        10,119          84.3
2nd quarter         3,341       27.8      2nd quarter        10,482          87.3
3rd quarter         4,369       36.4      3rd quarter        11,188          93.2
4th quarter         5,821       48.5      4th quarter        11,778          98.1
1980/1981
1st quarter       12,000         100.0
Environment Aspects
4.23      The expansion of water suply as a result of the project would lead
to an increase in the volumes of sewerage. This should be of concern in the
densely populated areas of Panama, Colon and Chorrera where sewerage treatment
needs to be undertaken in the near future. The disposal of sewerage in
Arraijan and Vacamonte should not be a serious problem. Except for Panama
City and Colon, where high investments in wastewater treatment facilities
are required, simple sewerage treatment processes can be used for the rest
of the country. The Government's sectoral program includes investments in
sewerage, and the Government has indicated its intention to seek Bank assist-
ance in the development of the subsector.






REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
PANAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 4-1 BAR CHART FOR DESIGN, BID AND CONSTRUCTION
1976                                1977                                 1978                                 1979                                 1980
CALENDAR YEAR                                                                                                                     'TIIIIII                                                                        
F | ml|I|IM M J    J A  S N I   J         A      J       S         DJ          A         JD 0                 F MAMJ   JASON   0                    F MAMJ   JASON  
MONTHS AFTER PROJECT START                              1 2   | 4     6  7 5  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21422 23 24 25 26627 2829 30    233J3435|363             39404142  4|44|45|46|47|48|49 50151152153154
NO.               ACTIVITY
1   LAND ACQUISITION
2    FINAL PROJECT DESIGN
3   GROUNDWATER EXPLORATION
4   ACCESS ROADS
COLON SUBPROJECT
5   RAW WATER INTAKE
6    RAW AND TREATED PIPELINES                                    DT 6                               D          I
7   TREATMENT PLANT UNITS                                                             I ._    _ s...s...,s.,a..n.....mg.  6
8    ELECTRIC WORK                         O   -                                                                                                            C
O 
1 co                                        0       ~        ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B  DE                              Pi
S    NEW DISTRI1BU ION SYSTEM              V                                                B         DE                       IuIEhhUIIIEguI.EuU***,tr
D                         B         DEC
10    REPAIR EXISTING NETWORK               m                     D                B               DE                             P 
O 2                  D                                                                                                                                                                      ..D  P
lI   EL CHORRILLO NETWORK                   D   _i                B                OE                                       _
12    METERING PROGRAM                        e
13    MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE                                       SC                                          EA
14   ARRALIAN VA(AMONTE SUBPROJECT                                                                        C
WELL CONSTRUUCTION
OD          B       DE                                 Pi
5   DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                                                         * _  _ii. .                       i _i _   BC
16   STORAGE TANK                                                                                                         mossisigR
CHORRERA SUBPROJECT
D                        B
17    TREATMENT PLANT DESIGN                              *  _          -  _  -  - _  _  - _  mIuu..m.mhhmhfhmmhuaD
DE
18    PLANT EQUIPMENT SUPPLY
19   PLANT CIVIL WORKS
D                 B                   C
20    ELECTRIC WORK
D            ~~~~~B DE                                               Pi
21    DISTRIBUTION SYST EM                                                     _  _ _  _  _                *       I*a********|B ****BSS
22    STORAGE TANK                                                                                            _  *            B                           C
LEGEND                                                 B       Bidding
C    = ConstrUErlon
_ -  _ * Design                                        D    = Design
DE  =D.ehry
1110111*1111 Bidding, Selection of Consultants         EA   = Ex-cution uf ACtity
Pl   = P.pt InslolltioW
Construction Execution of ActivilE          SC     Sel-ct,on of Consulns                                                                                                                           Wold Bank-15696






V        -A                 ~~~~~~~~-At .
V -                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
0,-                           -         A'6CA X  0   F0  ii  
X,'@,   0;X' 01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~', 21,,'
i 0>   v     I E n     E                 _    ) X / 
Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~/'
--  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
7     w-~~1
QJ4    .I                            G
I                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Ag ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ,l
;7 -  E = ; =-; = g =t E E S t U ; ) 3 f   9 _     .   i  '7 7 Y X
W<X~~~~~~~~~~~ '2






IBRD-12047
79050'                                             FAPA          . '      E      U   S7
.9025.                                                                                                                                              O9f 
CARIBS                E                                                                   PAN..A REFINERY         FUTURE INDUSTRIAL                                                           '2A
AREA                             . |
A i iS :" \ '   :;   9   .   i;Dt  ;  ^ POWER PLANTA _    D6
4                                               ;                                                     ;  t,r tA PANAMA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT
12"O                              PuR >Colon  Subproject
12'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PIPELINES
HAR816-f                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED TREATMENT PLANT
SABANITA                                  - -    EXISTING PIPELINES
L/mol" 8.4Y                                                           2"O   8"0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____ROADS
I----+RAILROADS
CANAL ZONE
CANAL ZONE BOUNDARIES
3   ^ ;   SOO   CONTOURS (IN METERS)
-920' 2                                                     ya        t0  2  3  4
! ;6:fA  aTtlshfflllEll:!XdlklAlSi|g4stgif jz ;; i ; W e booedo,Ies dio n p., Ibis mp d; z ;   Io b                                                                   h       or -p so -
Worl B-k..dIA4jBistp-
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9






CHAPTER 5
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.01      IDAAN, the national water supply and sewerage authority, carries
about 95% of the annual investments in the sector, and operates 50 water
supply and 14 sewerage systems throughout the country. Considerable progress
has been made in improving and extending these systems during the last 15
years. This has resulted in substantial expansion in the transmission and
distribution facilities, and in the installation of the Chilibre Plant to
supply Panama City, the first major Government-owned production facility.
As a result, investments in water and sewerage increased rapidly, parti-
cularly in the seventies, totalling US$44.1 million in the 1971-74 period.
5.02      Improvements to the systems have been costly.  Sectoral planning
has been weak, leading to overinvestment. Overcapacity in production co-
exists with unsatisfied demand, and the rapid expansion has led to supply
problems. Water losses in the networks and household wastage account for a
high percentage of water produced. The full extent of the problem cannot be
adequately measured since over 40% of the connections are not metered. In
1975, about 36% of the water produced could not be accounted for.
Past Finances and Present Position
5.03      Water rates were increased in April 1975 for the first time in 20
years. This was possible partly because water for Panama City and Colon was
purchased from the Panama Canal Company at low cost, partly because sub-
stantially all investments for distribution facilities are recovered in the
form of a valorization fee, which is a consumer levy over and above the water
tariff, and partly because investments over the past 15 years have been
entirely financed by Government equities and external loans.
5.04      During the 1971-74 period, the additional revenues necessary to
cover higher than anticipated operating costs, together with the funds re-
quired to finance the recent investments could not be entirely generated
internally. Since 1972, IDAAN had been running a recurring operating deficit,
and by the end of the period, had accumulated about US$5 million in addi-
tional current liabilities. In April 1975, the Government authorized IDAAN
to increase water rates for domestic consumption in all cities but Panama and
Colon, and for commercial and industrial users nationwide. As a result of
the increase, IDAAN reversed its net loss of US$0.3 million in 1974 to a net
profit of US$3.5 million in 1975. IDAAN also changed its tariff structure
from the declining block rate which it had applied since 1956 to the present
uniform tariff.
5.05      The 1975 tariff increases, however, were not enough to generate
sufficient funds to cover operating costs, debt service requirements, future
working capital needs, and the increasingly large contributions needed to



- 34 -
finance new works. Further, the financial structure of IDAAN was tradi-
tionally geared to recover all capital investments through valorization tax,
which is a consumer levy to cover investments in distribution facilities. The
Chilibre Plant, however, is a production facility, and does not therefore
qualify for valorization. The plant came on stream in mid-1975 at a cost of
US$40 million, and is currently operating at about 20% of capacity. It is the
Government's intention to set water tariffs so that IDAAN will be on a self
financing basis. Accordingly, the Government has agreed to increase tariffs
progressively during the execution of the proposed projects, and they will
almost double their 1975 level by the end of 1978.
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
5.06      Water rates for domestic consumption are higher in the cities of
Panama and Colon (US$0.45/1,000 US gallons) than in the rest of the country
(US$0.40/1,000 US gallons). They are the same for commercial and industrial
use throughout the country: US$0.65/1,000 US gallons for light usage, and
US$0.70/1,000 US gallons for heavy usage.
5.07      Effective March 31, 1976, the Government authorized IDAAN to in-
crease the water tariffs on the basis of automatic monthly increases of 3% per
month for 12 consecutive months, and of 1.5% per month for 12 consecutive
months thereafter. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that
this schedule would be maintained. The district of El Chorrillo in Panama
City would be exempt from the tariff increases. The net effect of the auto-
matic monthly increses would be to raise tariffs by 16% in 1976, 30% in 1977,
and 14% in 1978. The average rate, excluding valorization revenues, was
US$0.49/1,000 US gallons in 1975 and will increase to US$0.84 by the end of
1978. Also the Government and IDAAN have undertaken to carry out a study
to assess the impact of the existing tariff structure on income redistribu-
tion, with the view to revising the tariff structure, if necessary, so that
higher income groups bear a larger proportion of the costs.
5.08      While the Government and IDAAN have already agreed to specific
tariff increases during the 1976-78 period, agreement was reached during loan
negotiations that tariffs for 1979 and thereafter, would be at least suffi-
cient to generate funds from operations equivalent to not less than 3.8% of
the average revalued cost less accumulated depreciation of fixed assets in
service and under construction during any fiscal year. IDAAN also agreed
to revalue fixed assets in accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank.
5.09      The proposed financial target which relates funds from operations
to the current net value of fixed assets in service and under construction is
a variation of the usual cash generation revenues covenant. The term "funds
from operations" means the difference between:
(i) the sum of gross revenues from all sources related to water
and sewerage operations, consumer contributions in aid of
construction and net non-operating income; and



- 35 -
(ii)  the sum of all expenses of operation, including maintenance
and administration (excluding depreciation and other non-
cash operating charges), interest and other changes on
debt, repayment of loan principal, all taxes or payments in
lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other cash distributions
of surplus and any other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures related to water and sewerage operations.
5.10      The advantage of this formula is that IDAAN's financial viability
will be protected even in the event of substantial new investments, as yet not
contemplated, but which may well be necessary in rural areas and urban sewer-
age. In addition to the increases in water tariffs, assurances were obtained
during loan negotiations, that the valorization tax will continue on all exist-
ing works, as well as those proposed to be undertaken.
Financial Plan
5.11      IDAAN, burdened by a high level of borrowing, under utilization of
capacity and the resulting high operating costs will face a difficult finan-
cial situation until 1977. In addition to the tariff increases already in
effect, IDAAN has developed a financial plan which will strengthen its medium-
term financial position. It includes:
(i) an extension of the grace period of an existing USAID loan, so
that debt service of US$1.3 million per year applicable to the
construction of the Chilibre Plant will commence in 1981.
Negotiations with the appropriate officials have produced an
agreement in principle, and the formal extension should take
place shortly;
(ii)  settlement of an estimated US$1.7 million in water bills owed
by Government and autonomous agencies. The plan, which links
the payment of US$1.1 million in overdue bills owed by IDAAN
on an as-and-when basis IDAAN receives the estimated US$1.7
million from such agencies, will produce an overall improve-
ment in the cash position of US$0.6 million. Assurances were
obtained during loan negotiations that settlement would be
reached by end of 1977;
(iii) a recently contracted loan in the amount of US$2 million,
the proceeds of which would be used to pay existing creditors.
5.12      Looking foreward, IDAAN's capital requirements during the 1976-80
period total US$54.1 million, including the proposed Bank project of US$20.5
million and additional construction of US$33.6 million. The construction of



- 36 -
facilities over and above those financed by the Bank include a US$20 million
project with the Inter-American Development Bank, and consists of US$7.5
million for extensions and improvements to rural water supply systems and
US$12.5 million for construction of sewerage systems in the provincial cities.
The IDB loan is estimated at US$12 million with interest at 3% per annum, a
grace period of 4 years and an amortization period of 31 years. The financing
plan is as follows:
Application of Funds                              US$1,000                   %
Project Cost                                       17,900                   27.5
Interest during construction                        2,600                    4.0
Other works                                        33,600                   51.6
Total investments                                  54,100                   83.1
Increase in working capital                        11,000                   16.9
Total                                         65,100                 100.0
Source of Funds
Funds provided by operations                       37,900                   58.2
Less repayment of long-term debt                   13,100                   20.1
Net funds provided by operations              24,800                  38.1
Government equity contributions                    12,400                   19.0
Proposed IBRD loan                                 12,000                   18.4
Proposed IDB loan                                  12,000                   18.4
Existing IDB loan                                   3,900                    6.1
65,100                 100.0
5.13      The financing plan includes the tariff adjustments in connection
with the project as well as the financial plan to strengthen IDAAN's medium-
term financial position. About 38.1% of the total investment requirements
will be financed by net funds provided by operations; 19.0% by Government
equity contributions; 18.4% from the proposed loan, and 24.5% from other
lenders. In addition, assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that
IDAAN would not undertake any investments during the period of execution of
the proposed project that would exceed in aggregate in any one year US$4 mil-
lion, without prior consent of the Bank, nor would it incur any long-term
debt without the Bank's agreement, unless its projected net income before
interest and depreciation is at least 1.4 times its maximum debt service.
Assurances were also obtained that: IDAAN's financial statements would be
audited annually by independent auditors.



- 37 -
Evaluation of Financial Performance
5.14      The financial structure and liquid position of IDAAN will improve
substantially over the next 5 years. As shown in the table below, total
assets will increase by about 56% to about US$194 million; equity will almost
double from US$68 million to US$123 million, while long-term debt will increase
by about 31% from US$48 million to US$63 million. The debt equity ratio will
continue to improve and by 1980 will be about I to 2. The ratio of current
assets to current liabilities will be favorable throughout the period, and
will average about 2 to 1.
Summary Balance Sheets (US$ million)           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Assets
Net Fixed Assets                                109.4   126.1   144.7   160.1   173.1
Current Assets                                   13.2    14.8    15.7    15.6    18.8
Other Assets                                      1.7     1.9      2.1      2.3     2.5
Total Assets                              124.3   142.8   162.5   178.0   194.4
Liabilities
Equity                                          68.9    81.6    95.3   108.8   123.5
Debt                                            48.0    53.2    59.2    61.4    63.1
Current                                           7.4     8.0      8.0      7.8     7.8
Total Assets                              124.3   142.8   162.5   178.0   194.4
Memo
Current Assets to Current Liab.                1.8/1   1.8/1   1.8/1   1.9/1   2.4/1
Debt to Equity                                  1/1.4   1/1.5   1/1.6   1/1.7   1/1.9
5.15      In order to achieve the proposed financial target, the Government
has already agreed to rate increases equivalent to 16.3% in 1976, 29.8% in
1977, and 13.5% in 1978. On the basis of these agreed increases, and includ-
ing the valorization tax, water rates by mid-1978 will be US$1.03 per thousand
US gallons, which are high both by Latin American and United States standards.
As shown in the table below, net revenues will increase to US$3.6 million by
the end of 1980.



- 38 -
Summary Income and Cash Flow (US$ million)  1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Operating Revenues                              16.0    20.3    22.3    24.4    27.5
Operating Expenses                              16.1    17.6    19.4    21.5    23.9
Net Revenues                                   -0.1      2.7      2.9      2.9     3.6
Non Cash Charges                                5.6      5.9      6.4      6.9     7.6
Internally Generated Funds                      5.5      8.6      9.3     9.8    11.2
Debt Service                                    4.1      3.9      3.7      3.4     4.5
Increase in Working Capital                     4.0      1.1      0.6      1.6     3.7
Usable Internally Generated Funds               (2.6)    3.6      5.0      4.8     3.0
Borrowings                                       4.1     6.9      7.6      4.9     4.4
Government Grants                                2.8     2.3      3.3      2.2     1.8
4.3    12.8    15.9    11.9       9.2
Investment Program
IBRD                                       0.6      4.4     8.6      5.2      1.7
Other Works                                3.7      8.4     7.3      6.7      7.5
4.3    12.8    15.9    11.9       9.2
Memo Items
Average Rate Base                              93.5   102.3   113.9   127.4   141.6
Rate of Return                                   1.0%    4.5%    4.0%    3.6%    3.8%
Operating Ratio                                65.7%   57.7%   58.7%   59.8%   59.0%
Average Tariff/1000 US gal.
(including valorization)                      0.76    0.95    1.03    1.08    1.17
5.16      Despite the high water tariff, the conventional financial rate of
return will be only of the order of 3% to 4% by the late 70's and early 80's.
This is acceptable for the following reasons:
(i)  the rate base includes since 1976 a US$40 million investment in
the Chilibre water treatment plant, which came into operation
in mid-1975. The USAID financed Chilibre plant represents about
40% of IDAAN's asset base, and the plant is currently operating
at about 20% of capacity. If the rate base were adjusted for
the over investment in the Chilibre water plant - say 60% of
the US$40 million were taken out of the asset base - and
treated as extraordinary item, the conventional financial rate
of return would be in the 4% to 6% range.



- 39 -
(ii)  included in the rate base are also US$26 million in
sewerage investments for which no specific tariffs are
charged. Normally, for joint water and sewerage opera-
tions, financial expectations are somewhat lower than
for water alone.
(iii)  IDAAN is the only water and sewerage agency in the
country, and operates a total of 50 water supply and
14 sewer systems in urban and rural areas, which have
a high social component. This is unlike other Bank-
financed water supply projects in the Region, which
concentrate on urban areas.
5.17      Table 5-1 shows the detailed financial projections while Table 5-2
shows the indicators that will be monitored during the project execution.
IDAAN has agreed to include in its quarterly reports, information on the
progress made in achieving these targets, and to carry out remedial actions
that may be suggested by the Bank. During supervision missions, IDAAN's
performance will be discussed with its staff and evaluated on the basis of
these indicators.






- 40 -                                                                   TABLE 5-1
INSTITUTO DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES
CONSOIIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS D/
(In us$ millions)
Actual                                                            Projection
1974         1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981           1982          1983
BALANCE SBURT
Property, plant and equipment b/                       86.2        114.7         126.1         144.2         162.9         186.6          209.1         241.1         268.7         293.8              s/ The financial statements consolidate the neccunts
tees A.cteulated Depreciation NI18.6                                24.1          29.7          36.1          43.2           91.5          61.0          72.1          84.7           99.1                 of 90 water supply and 14 sewerage systams and
67.6         90.6          96.4         108.1  5      19.7   14 3.1               148.1         169.0          184.0         194.7                  reflet about 9537 of the activitY in the Sector.
Plant and Equipnent - not yet in service d/            13.8         11.0          13.0          18.0          25.0           25.0          29.0          10.0           3.0            S.0
81.4        191.6         109.4         126.1         144.7         160.1         173.1         179.0          189.0         199.7                  Property, plnt al d c qip .a. t a  re-alued  t 18%
C.,rrat Assets:                                                                                                                                                                                            over historical cost as of December 31, 1972. end
Cash                                                 2.2          3.0           4.2           4.0           2.8           0.6            3.1           4.0           4.2           4.5                  at 7% over revalued coot thereafter, which is nun-
Aceounie receivable, lse.  allowance for                                                                                                                                                                sitent with the Panama Coneoner Price Inden.
doubtful eccounts t /                             4.7          5.3           6.6            7.8           9.5          11.0          12'0          13.3           14.1          15.8
Inventories                                          1.2          2.0           2.4           3.0           3.4           4.0           3X7            3.5           3.3           2.9             ol Depreciation and accenulated depreciation is cal-
8.1         10.5          13.2          14.0          15.7          15.6         118;S          20.8           21.8          23.2                  culated using the straight line method bhsed on
Charges to Future Operations                            1.3          1.5           1.7           1.9           2.1            2.3           2.5           2.7           2.9            3.1                 an estioared economic life of 30 years, and in re-
Total Aeseto                                    90.0        113.6         124.3         142.8          162.3         178.0         194.4         202.5         213.7          226.0                  valued at rates consistent with these used for the
Govarment's Equity:                                     _            _  -                      -                                  -                                                 -                      assets.
Cootributione f/                                    31.4         33.9          36.7          39.0          42.2          44.4           46.1          46.1          46.1          46.1
Revaluation surplus b/                                -          12.2          19.4          27.1          34.7          43.1           52.5          62.9          74.7          87.6              d/  Property, plant and equipment not yet inervier.
Retained Earniogs                                    9.4         12.9          12.8          15.5          18.4          21.3           24.9          27.2          29.9          32.5                  is valued at cost.
40.8         59.0          68.9          81. 6         95.3         100.8         123.5         136.2          150.7         166.2
Long-term debt, less current portion A/                40.6         45.9          48.9          53.2           59.2          61.4          63.1          59.7          36.3           52.8             B'  Acceun.t  receivable include valsriaation assessment
Current Liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                       which is due by December 31 of seah year, but
Accounts Payable                                     4.1          5.1           4.1           3.6           3.4           3.4            3.4           3.2           3.3           3.5                   elude amounts which ere received on periodic ins-
Contranters' holdback                                3.8          1.4           1.3           2.5           3.2           1.7            1.2            -             -              -                  tallments over future year-; such amnesia sre
Long-teem debt due within one year                   1.5          2.2           2.0           1.9           1.7           2.7            3.2           3.4           3.4           3.5                  estimated at US$25 million at December 31, 1975.
9.4          8.7           7.4           8.0           6.0           7.8           7.8            6.6           6.7           7.0
Total Equity and Liabilities                     90.8        113.6         124.3         142.8         i62!          178.0         194.4         202.5          213.7         226.0              f/  In the rase of the forecast period, Govtenment
-   -                           _____                                       -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~contributions are satins ted at 25% of the IBRD
EARNINGS AND RETAINED EARNINGS                                                                                                                                                                             and IDB inveatmenis.
Revenuss:
SgIa  of Weter h/                                    6.1          9.9          12.0          15.8          18.2          20.3           22.7          25.2          27.8          31.5              g/  The teens of saieting debt range fran 16-30 years
Other I-ms i;/                                       2.6          5.9           4.0           4.5           4.1           4.1           4.8            5.6           6.3           3.5                  with an average interest rate of 28.2. An option
8.8         13.9          16.0          20.3          22.3          24.4          27.5          30.8           34.1          37.0                  to defer debt repaynste of 11S$1.3 oillion per
Bxpess-e:                                                                                                                                                                                                  year from 1976 to 1971 en one of the loans wan
Operating and Maintenance J/                         2.8          3.2           3.9           4.4           5.0           5.7            6.5           7.5           8.6           9.9                  exercised, and accordingly is reflected in the
Purchased Water k/                                   1.9          1.8           2.0           2.2           2.4           2.7            3.0           3.3           3.6           3.9                  forecast data. Is the ease of the forecert period,
Administration                                       1.8          2.1           3.8           4.1           4.5           5.0            5.5           6.0           6.6           7.3                  the IBRD loean is estimated at US$12 million;
Prevision for bad Debts                                                         0             1.0           1.1           1.2            1.3           1.5           1.7           1.9                  interest at 8.5%, a grace period of 4 years with
6.5          7.1          10.5          11.7          13.0          14.6          16..3         18.3           20.5          23.0                  an asortioation perid of 16 yeeta, sod the  MEa
lean is estimated as US$12 million; interest at
Earrings before depreciation                            2.3          6.8           5.5           8.6            9.3           9.8          11.2          12.5          13.6           14.0                 3.0%; grace period of 4 years with an emortization
Deprecirtion t c                                     1.6          2.2           3.6           4.1           4.6           5.2            5.9           6.8           7.7           8.4                  period of 31 years.
Eaoings before isterest                                 0.9          4.6           1.9           4.5           4.7            4.6           5.3           5.7           5.9            5.6
Interest j/                                          1.0          1.1           2.0           1.8           1.8           1.7            1.7           3.4           3.2           3.0              h/  Eetimated r-venoss fren the oale of eater refleot
Net Earoings                                          - 0.3          3.5         - 0.1           2.7            2.9           2.9           3.6           2.3           2.7            2.6                 effective march 31, 1976,  verage tariff increases
Retained Earnings at bhgining of year                   9.7          9.4          12.9          12.8          15.5           18.4          21.3          24.9          27.2           29.8                 of 37. per month for 12 consecutive months, aod 141
letfioed Esrnings at end of year                        9.4         12.9          12.8          15-.5         16.44         21.            4.9           27.2          29.9           32.5                 per month fur 12 consecuftive ment    anhs   ed effafti
-   -                                -             -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--January 1, 1979, increases of 71 per anou. thereafter,
CHANGES IN PINANCIAL CONDITION                                                                                                                                                                         il  Other intone includes valorizationcrvennes,
Financial re.s.rces were provided by:                                                                                                                                                                      connectioo and reconnection revenues and  isu.colla-
Funds povided' by operations                         2.3          6.8           5.5           8.6           9.3           9.0           11.2          12.5          13.6          14.0                  Qneus aervice revenues.
Less feeds required for operations
Repayment of long-teem debt n/                   2.2           2.6           4.1           3.9           3.7           3.4           4.5           6.4            6.6           6.5              l/  OPerating and maintesance expense include all pro-
Working capital requirements 1/                   3.2          4.0           4.0           1.1           9.6           1.6           3.7            3.4           0.7           1.4                  duction and distribution costs.  The ocelot of staff
Usable funds provided  by operations                  - 3.1          0.2         - 2.6           3.6            5.0           4.8           3.0           2.7            6.3           6.1                  is estimated to remain constant until 1980, and
Go-varnent Contributions f/                             6.0          2.6           2.0           2.3           3.3            2.2           1.8            -              -             -                  ctehraftor  inTe   in Proportion to the sumber of
cooneo.ti.ons. The fers..a.t data reflects estimated
Lung Tem Debt                                                                                                                                                                                              cost increasse  of 10%.
Reisting lenders S/                                  7.2          7.5           3,9            -             -              -             -          - _              _
World BRnk jt                                         -            -            0.2           2.9           5.2            2.2           1.5            _             _              -              k/  Is the case of the forecest period, the cost of
Inter-American Developmeot Bank /                    _            _              _            4.0           2.4           2.7           2.9             _             _             _                   purchased water is estinated to increase from 10.7
10.1         10.5           4._          12.8          1259          11.9           9.2            2.7           6.3           6.1                  to 13.2 cents per thousand US galleon effretive
Fi ... ial rcur.- -.e .. d f.                                                                                                               -           -              -                      January 1,  1976 and 10%. per year thereafter.
Ficasnial resonrces were useed for,
Additions to water supply sad sewerage
facilities                                                                                                                                                                                      1/ Working capital requirements reflect increasea in
Existing projects                                   10.1         10.3           3.6            -              -             -             -             -             _              _                  accounts receivable and inventory levele  fluctua-
IBERD Urbea Water Supply                              -            -            0.6           4.4           8.6           5.2            1.7            _             _              _                  tiens in cash cc hand, and decreases in accounts
IDB Rural Water Supply and Sewerage                   -            -            0.1           6.4           4.0           4.0            5.5            -             -              _                  payable end contractors holdback.
lrban and rural sewerage m/ _.                                                                2.0           3.3            2.7           2.0           2.7           6.3            6.1
10T1         10.3           4.3          12.8          13.9           1.9           9.2            2.7           6.3           6.1             mt Urban and rural sewerage includes improvements to
dthe Paana City Sy9tem.  The  ovtment progra  is
undefined beyond 2980.
5/Includes Principal end interest.






TABLE 5-2
INSTITUTO DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES
TEN YEAR REVIEW
Actual                                         Projection
1974     1975       1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983
Operating Data (In thousands)
Population of Panama                             1611.1   1661.2   1713.3   1767.5   1823.7   1882.0   1950.8   2019.0   2090.0   2164.7
Service levels:
Population served-water                        806.6    892.4    937.2    894.9   1037.9   1097.2   1171.1   1208.9   1273.2   1328.8
Percent of Population served water              50.1%    53.7%    54.7%    55.7%    56.9%    58.3%    60.0%    59.9%    60.9%    61.4%
Total number of connections - water             79.1      84.2      90.2      95.6    102.8    108.6    115.9    119.7    123.6    126.6
Metered connections - water                     35.9      43.7      45.1      57.4      72.0      86.9    104.3    113.7    117.4    120.3
Population served-sewerage                     580.0    598.0    616.8    671.7    711.2    752.8    799.8    848.0    898.7    952.5
Percent of population served-sewerage           36.0%    36.0%    36.0%    38.0%    39.0%    40.0%    41.0%    42.0%    43.0%    44.0%
Number of connections-sewerage                  56.9      56.9      59.4      65.2      70.4      74.5      79.2      83.9      87.3       90.7
Production and Consumption (109 US gals)
Production of water                             27.3      31.6      32.2      32.0      31.9      32.5      33.3      34.1      34.6      35.2
Sale of water                                   17.5      20.2      21.0      21.3      21.7      22.5      23.5      24.4      25.2      26.1
Unaccounted-for water                            36.0%    36.0%    34.8%    33.4%    32.0%    30.6%    29.6%    28.4%    27.2%    25.9%
Financial Data
Internal cash ratio - estimated                      0.2       4.1       1.3       3.8       3.8      4.0        3.9       3.3       3.7       3.8
Internal cash ratio - covenant                        -         -         -         -        3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8
Average rate base (in US$ millions)                 54.7      79.1      93.5    102.3    113.9    127.4    141.6    158.6    176.5    189.3
Return on assets (as a percentage)                   1.3%      4.9%      2.0%      4.5%      4.0%     3.6%       3.8%      3.6%      3.4%      3.0%
Average water tariff (per thousand USgals):
Excluding valorization (in US$)                    0.35      0.49      0.57      0.74     0.84      0.90      0.97       1.03      1.10      1.21
Including valorization (in US$)                   0.50       0.65      0.76     0.95      1.03      1.08      1.17       1.26      1.35      1.42
Increase in average tariff (as a percentage):
Excluding valorization                              -      40.0%    16.3%    29.8%    13.5%         7.1%      7.6%       6.4%      6.8%    10.0%
Including valorization                              -       29.8%    17.0%    25.3%       7.7%      5.2%      8.5%       7.5%      7.1%      5.1%
Operating ratio                                  73.4%    53.9%    65.7%    57.7%    58.7%    59.8%    59.0%    59.4%    60.1%    62.0%
Debt service ratio                                 1.1       2.6       1.3       2.2      2.5       2.9       2.5        1.9       2.1       2.2
Revenue effective index                             -         -        0.45     0.48      0.55      0.65      0.65      0.68       0.68      0.68
Other Statistics
Number of permanent employees                      1.534    1.640    1.718    1.720    1.720    1.720    1.750    1.760    1.775    1.800
Employees per 100 population served                  1.9       1.8       1.8       1.7       1.6       1.6       1.5       1.5       1.4       1.3
Employees trained                                     -         -         -        120       200       200        -         -         -         -



CHLAPTER 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01      The proposed project will fulfill several objectives.  It will
provide water to low income population in key urban centres, thus improving
their living conditons. Secondly, it will increase the supply of water to
Colon, supporting the Government's industrialization policy for the city.
Thirdly, it will assist in improving sectoral planning by providing assist-
ance in the field. Fourth, it will strengthen program execution and financing
by improving the operating and managerial capacity of IDAAN, as well as ensur-
ing its financial viability.
6.02      The internal financial rate of return is estimated to be 7.3% for
the Colon Subproject, the cost of which is US$6.3 million; 26.4% for the
Panama Subproject, the cost of which is US$2.2 million; 8.6% for the Chorrera
Subproject, the cost of which is US$3.1 million; and 5.9% for the Arraijan
Subproject, the cost of which is US$0.5 million. The calculations of the
internal financial rates of return are shown in Table 6-4.
6.03      The average internal financial rate of return of these components
which account for 66% of the total project cost is 11.0%.  The aggregate rate
of return excludes the following components, which because of the predominance
of non-quantifiable factors, no meaningful rate of return could be estimated:
(i) improving services for existing consumers, the cost of which is US$3.9
million; (ii) management and training, the cost of which is US$0.5 million;
and (iii) extending services to the fishing port of Vacamonte, the cost of
which is US$1.4 million. The Vacamonte Subproject is fully justified, since
the provision of adequate volumes of water is indispensable for the function-
ing of the fishing industry in the new site. All cost figures include physical
contingencies and price escalat:ion. Table 6-3 shows in summary form, the cost
of each component.
6.04      The internal financial rates of return are lower than the expected
economic rates of return because intangible benefits such as improvement of
the environment and public health are not fully reflected in the prices
charged for water services. The project is geared to assisting the low income
groups in the project areas, and the provision of water supply and sewerage
services should substantially improve their living conditions. Much of this
population will be supplied with adequate volumes of water, and the incidence
of water-borne services should be greatly reduced. The project is a minimum
program, and accordingly, the design periods have been shortened to avoid
tying up funds in unused facilities.



- 43 -
Sensitivity Analysis
6.05      A sensitivity analysis of the project shows that if capital costs
are 10% higher than estimated, and water sales are 10% lower than forecasts,
the average internal financial rate of return would be 8.7%, which is still
acceptable considering the social character of the project. As shown by
Table 6-1, for each 10% decrease in water sales the internal financial rate
of return would decrease by about 1%, and for each 10% increase in the capital
costs, the internal financial rate of return would decline by an additional
0.7%. Variations in the operating and maintenance cost are not considered
since any increase in these costs would be offset by a proportionate increase
in the rates.
Table 6-1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF THE INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN
Capital Costs %
Benefits %       0    +10       +20      +30
Total Project                               0          11.0  10.0       9.1      8.4
-10           9.7   8.7       7.8      7.1
-20           8.4   7.4       6.5      5.8
-30           7.1   6.1       5.2      4.5
Colon Subproject                            0           7.3   6.6       6.0      5.5
-10           6.6   5.9       5.3      4.8
-20           5.7   5.0       4.4      3.9
-30           4.8   4.1       3.5      3.0
Panama (El Chorrillo) Subproject            0          26.4  24.1      22.1    20.5
-10          23.1  20.8      18.8    17.2
-20          19.7  17.4      15.4    13.8
-30          16.3  14.0      12.0    10.4
Chorrera Subproject                         0           8.6   7.8       7.1      6.5
-10           7.6   6.8       6.1      5.5
-20           6.6   5.8       5.1      4.5
-30           5.6   4.8       4.1      3.5
Arraijan Subproject                         0           5.9   5.1       4.5      3.9
-10           4.9   4.1       3.5      2.9
-20           3.8   3.0       2.4      1.8
-30           2.8   2.0       1.4      0.8
Marginal Costs Analysis
6.06      The long run marginal cost of water calculated at discount rates
varying from 6% (considered to be the cost of capital net of inflation in
Panama) to 12% (the current opportunity cost of capital) is shown in Table
6.2. Assuming the average incremental cost approximates the long run mar-
ginal cost, the projected water rates would be only US$0.16, US$0.08 and



- 44 -
US$0.23 below the long run marginal cost at the opportunity interest rate
of 12%. At 10%, which would be the cost of capital to IDAAN for the project,
the projected tariffs are US$0.02 and US$0.04 above the marginal cost of
water in Colon and Chorrera, and US$0.12 below this cost in Arraijan. This
indicates that in the long run the average tariff levels (US$0.76/1,000
gallons for domestic consumption and US$1.10/1,000 gallons for industrial
use) proposed to be reached by the end of 1978 would be adequate. These
tariffs are not low as compared to those in other countries in similar stages
of development.
Table 6-2: MARGINAL COST OF WATER SUPPLY IN THE PROJECT AREA
Present Value                     Proposed      Deviation
Discount  Volumes of  Total   Cost*, US$   Tariff, US$          US$
Subproject  Rate, %  Water Sold  Costs*  Per 1,000 G  Per 1,000 G  Per 1,000 G
Colon          6.0      8,674.6  3,469.5        0.40          0.69         +0.29
8.0      5,753.7  2,996.9        0.52          0.69        +0.17
10.0      3,981.7  2,673.4        0.67          0.69        +0.02
12.0      2,857.2  2,437.2        0.85          0.69        -0.16
Chorrera       6.0      6,394.0  2,153.2        0.34          0.57         +0.23
8.0      4,450.0  1,885.7        0.42          0.57        +0.15
10.0      3,299.3  1,702.8        0.53          0.57        +0.04
12.0      2,425.4  1,569.8        0.65          0.57         -0.08
Arraijan       6.0         810.1    372.8       0.46          0.56         +0.10
8.0        605.7    341.6        0.56          0.56          0
10.0        472.9    319.9        0.68          0.56        -0.12
12.0        381.9    303.7        0.79          0.56        -0.23
*  Expressed in October 1975 prices, US$ Thousands.



Table 6-3 Summary of Project Costs (US$ thousands)
1/                                 2/
Original  Adjusted                 Physical   Adjusted   Price   Adjusted
Cost      Cost      Engineering   Contin-    Base         Esca-   Project    Per-
Estimates Estimates       11%      gencies    Gost        lation  Cost        cent
Item            _-15.4%                                                               35.7%
Colon Subproject             4,242     3,642        400          622      4,664       1,666    6,330       35.3%
Panama (El Chorrillo)
Subproject               1,208      1,258       138           215      1,611         576    2,187       12.2%
La Chorrera Subproject       1,931     1,793        197          306       2,296        821    3,117       17.4%
Arraijan Subproject            730       288         31           47         366        132       498       2.8%
Sub-Total                8,111      6,981        766        1,190      8,937       3,195   12,132       67.7%
Vacamonte Subproject           800       812         89          127       1,028        368    1,396        7.8%
Improvements to Existing
Consumers                 _         2,379       297           254      2,930       1,045    3,975       22.2%
Management and Training        300       300         -            -          300        108       408       2.3%
Metering                     1,261       -           -            -          -          -         -           -
Engineering and Admi-
nistration                1,152     1,152      (1,152)         -          -          _         _          _
Physical Contingencies       1,571     1,571         -        (1,571)        -          _         _          _
Price Escalation             4,716     4,716         --                                 _         _ 
17,911    17,911         -             -     13,195       4,716   17,911      100.0%
==~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ = = =  _ =  5==    === ==  = ==
1 / After allocating certain cost elements between improvements to existing consumers and new consumers.
2 / Used in computing the internal financial rate of return.






- 46 -
TABLE 6-4: CALCUJLATION OF INTERNAL FINANCIA,L RATES OF RErUIRNI9/
Revenues and Costs - US$ thousands
TOTAL PROJECT                                 1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1987    1998   1999   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995-
vol1ne of Water sold 10 6gal. 2/                      ____       491    949   1209   1279   1352   1423   1494   1564   1719    1972   2028   2183   2336   2406   2476   2347   2617   2687
1/  Excludes costs sand benefits of
Revenue fron Tariffs 3/-                                         306    593    755       799    942    986       931      974   1073   1173    1272   1372   1472   1529    1369   1618    1666   1714                              components relating to extendinsg
Revenue fron Valorization  /-                                    19      19    244    230       217    199      174      145     135     125     116      108     101      94      87       81      75      69                     services to existing consumers,
-       325      61      999   102.8   1959   1079    1105    1019   1208   1298   17398   1480   17              1614   1656 169           74     193rtohse,lreheeia
Capital Coats  1/ 5/                            450   1893    3969    1698   1027                -       -       -        -       -       -       -            -       -           -        -       -       -                       predooinance of non-quantifiable
Operating and Maintenance  5/                                   14j,6    144i    178    227      239     235     238     254      265     277     289      301     311    -316    321       327     332     337                     factors.  Average estimated life
Net Benefits                                   -450  -1883            -1219    -08        O      829     836     867     865      943   10.21    1099   1179   1282   1298   1335   1372   1409   1446                              of assets is 30 years.
COLON SUBPROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                               2/  Incremental water sales after
6                                                                                                                                                                                                        using all available sources.
volume of water Sold 10  gal1. 2/                       -       -       -       115      141     166    192      217      243     340     437     535      632     729     799     869      940   1010   1980l
Revenue iron Tariffs  3/-                               -       -       -         79      97     114    132      150      168     235    302      369    436    503        551     600      649     697     745                3/  Based on the 1980 estimated
Revenue from  Valorization  4/-                         -       -               159      149     140    131      123     100       93      86      80       74      69      64      59       55      51      47                     tariffs reduced to the 1975 price
254  273        -        -                      ____   ____       -       -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~level using the annual inflation
-  -    -       -      ~~~~~~238    248   5      263     23      268      328     388     449     510      572     615     659     704      748     792                     factor given in paragraph 4.15
capital costs  I/  5/                           254    172   1968   1243   1027           -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -               -        -       -       - 
operating and Maintenance  5/                   -       -       -       -          7      54      55      57      58       70      76      83      90       97    103      108     113      119     124     129                4   Based on the estimated cost of
Net Benefits                                   -254   -172  -1968  -1243   -796    192           199    209      215      199     252     305     359    413       469    507      546      585     624      663                    investments on distribution
systems, expressed in 1975
PANAMA (EL CRORRTLLO) SUBPROJtCT                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prices and financed over 20 years
6                                                                                                                                                                                                        with interest at 6% per annum,
Volume nif Water sold 10  gal.  2/              -       -       453     907    907    907        907     907     907      907     907     907     907      907     907     907     907      907     907     907                     adjusted to constant terms using
an annual deflation factor of 7%
Revenue iron Tariffs  3/-                                       285    571      571    571       571     571     571      571     571     571     571      571     571    571      571      571     571    571
Revenue from Valorization  4//-                         -        16      16       16      16      16      -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -                 5/  Costs expressed in 1975 prices.
-7              5-387   538_7    587   -~8_   _T1        571    m5-    5971   5T71   537-1        71  571         571    57-1   571    5T- -7-1
capital Costs  I//                               86    763    762        -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Operating and maintenance  5/                   -       -       139     137     135      133     131     130     128      128     128     128     129     128      128     128     128      128     128     128
Net Benefits                                    -96   -763    -600      450     452    454       436    441      443    443    4,43    443        443    443    445        443     443    443       443    443
CHORREERA SUBPROJECT
Volume of Water Sold 10 6gal.  2/               -       -       -       -       141    184       228     271     315      358     414    470      527    583       639     639     639      639     639     639
Revenue from  Tariffs  3/                       -                                  0     105     130     154     180      294    236    268       300      332     364     364     364      364     364     364
Revenue from Valorization  4/                   -       -       -       -         66      62      58      54       51      45      42      39      36       34      32      30      28       26      24      22
-  -    -       -      ~~~~ ~~~146    167  188    208    231     249     278      307     336    336      396    394       392     390      388     386
capital costs  I/  5/                            PS    540   1239    445          -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
operating and Maintenance    /                          -       -       -         29      33      37      41       44      48      53      58       63      68      72      72       72      72      72      72
Net Benefits                                    -72   -540  4259    -44          117     134     151      167     87      291     225     24      23       28      34    322       320      319     316    314
AR9RAI7AN SUBPROJECT
Volum   of Waeter Sold 10  gel.  2/             -       -        38      42       45      47      51      53       55      56      57      59       59      61      61      61       61      61      61      /61
Revenue from Tariffs  3/                            -            21      24       25      26      27      29       30      31      31      32      32       33      34      34       34      34      34      34
Revenu  from Valorization  41                       -              3       3       3       3       3        3       3      -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -
- -     24      27       28      29      30      32       33      31      31      32       32      33      34      34       34      34      34       34
Capital costs  I/  5/                            38     328      -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Operating and Maintenance 5/                    -       -         7        7       7       7       7        7       8       8       8       8        8       8       8       8        8       8       8        8
Net Benefits                                    -38    -328      17       20      21      22      23      25       25      23      23      24       24      25      26       26      26      26       26      26






CHAPTER 7
AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from IDAAN that:
(i) With the assistance of consultants, it will revise its present
organizational structure and strengthen its Planning Office
within one year following the signing of the loan agreement,
and give the Bank an opportunity to comment on the revision
of the organization structure and on plans to strengthen the
Planning Office (paragraph 2.05);
(ii) It will engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
to audit its annual financial statements, beginning with the
fiscal year 1976, and that these statements, certified by
its external auditors, be sent to the Bank not later than
four months after the end of the fiscal year (paragraph
2.16);
(iii) It will carry out a training program described in Paragraph
2.21 with the assistance of consultants acceptable to the
Bank, and will submit to the Bank for review and approval, a
detailed description of the training program, and a schedule
of implementation within one year from the date of loan
signing (paragraph 2.24);
(iv) By January 1, 1977, it will engage consultants acceptable to the
Bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to carry
out the management assistance program, which will be reviewed
periodically by the Bank (paragraph 2.22);
(v)  It shall carry out technical studies to determine which one of
the two following alternatives is more appropriate for the
supply of water to Arraijan and Vacamonte:
(a) the construction of well fields; or
(b) the connection of the water distribution system
of Arraijan and Vacamonte to the Miraflores water
treatment facilities.
(vi) Engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank will be engaged,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare
detailed design of the project and to assist IDAAN in carrying
out the construction program (paragraph 4.17);
(vii) It will place the supply and civil works contracts on the
project in accordance with an agreed upon bid schedule
(paragraph 4.20);



- 48 -
(viii)  It will increase water rates at the rate of 3% per month
beginning on April 1, 1976, for twelve consecutive months,
and 1.5% thereafter for twelve consecutive months, up to
and including March 31, 1978 (paragraph 5.07);
(ix)  Tariffs for 1979 and thereafter, would be at least
sufficient to generate funds from operations equivalent
to not less than 3.8% of the average revalued cost less
accumulated depreciation of fixed assets in service and
under construction during any fiscal year (paragraph 5.08);
(x) It will undertake a study of the water tariff structure with
the objective of making it more effective for income distri-
bution purposes, and zit will afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the results of such a study
(paragraph 5.07);
(xi)  It will not incur any long-term debt without the Bank's consent,
unless its net income before interest and depreciation is at
least 1.4 times its maximum debt service in any future year
(paragraph 5.13);
(xii)  It will not undertake until completion of the project, without
prior consent of the Bank, any investments expected to exceed
in aggregate in any one year, US$4 million (paragraph 5.13);
(xiii)  It will annually reva:Lue its fixed assets in service in a
manner acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 5.08);
(xiv)  It will levy valorization taxes for the water distribution
works it carried out (paragrph 5.10); and
(xv)  All monies owned by IDAAN to government agencies or their
instrumentalities will be settled by the end of 1977
(paragraph 5.11).
7.02      Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)  It will make appropriate arrangements for IDAAN to be promptly
provided with any additional funds required for the project
(paragraph 7.01 (vi));
(b)  It will take all measures necessary to ensure that all monies
owned to IDAAN from Government agencies or their instrumenta-
lities still be settled by the end of 1977 (paragraph 7.04 (xiv)).



- 49 -
7.03      The following special conditions of disbursement have been specified:
(i) No disbursements will be made on the Colon Subproject until
IDAAN has obtained from the Panama Canal Company the necessary
license to locate the water intake on the Gatun Lake and the
right to use water from the lake (paragraph 4.11);
(ii) If studies indicate that the most appropriate alternative for
the supply of water to Arraijan and Vacamonte is pumping water
through an existing pipeline owned by the Panama Canal Company,
no disbursements will be made on the Arraijan/Vacamonte Subproject
unless IDAAN has obtained from the appropriate authorities the
necessary license to use such a pipeline (paragraph 4.13).
7.04      Provided the foregoing conditions are met, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$12 million for a term of 20 years including
a grace period of 4 years.



- 50 -
ANNEX
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN PROJECTS FILE
1.   Feasibility Study for a New Water Treatment Plant for the City of
Colon and its Suburban Areas.
2.   Feasibility Study for New Water Supply Systems for the Districts of
Arraijan and Chorrera.
3.   Report on Study of IDAAN's Financial Management.
4.   Detailed Calculations of Consumption Forecasts.
5.   Economic and Financial Evaluation of the New Colon Water Supply
System.
6.   Economic Evaluation with Shadow Prices in Panama.
7.   Statistics of Population in Panama.
8.   Basic Calculations for Population Forecasts.
9. IDAAN's Budget of Capital and Operations for 1976.
10.   Detailed Assumptions for Financial Projections.
11.   Notes to Financial Statements and Projections.
12.   Other Alternative Financial Forecasts.
May 14, 1976



