CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1280 PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DE
ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES
Dated June 9, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INSTITUTO DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES (here-
inafter called the Borrower).


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTTCLE TI
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currerzies equivalent to twelve
million dollars (tl2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and in respect cf interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates spe-
cified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on be-
half of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable up to such date,
and up to the amount allocated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower (i) in the
preparation of the detailed design of the water supply and sew-
erage facilities included in the Project, and in the carrying
out of the civil works for such facilities, and (ii) in the carry-
ing out of Part F.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants whose 4ualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part F.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, by December 31,
1976 or such later date as the Bank shall agree, management con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than one year
after the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Bank
shall agree, prepare a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
training included in Part F.2 of the Project, such program to
include a detailed schedule for its execution.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than a year
after the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Bank


﻿shall agree, take such steps as shall be nececsary to revise its
organizational structure and to strengthen its Planning Office.
The Borrower shall give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on any proposed action thereon.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall carry out technical studies to deter-
mine which one of the two following alternatives is more appro-
priate for the supply of water to Arraijan and Vacamonte:
(a) the construction of well fields, or
(b) the connection of the water distribution system of
Arraijan and Vacamonte to the Miraflores water treatment facilities.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of the facilities included in the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and review all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business; (ii) operate and maintain all its plants, equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
public utility, administrativQ, and financial practices; and (iii)
at all times manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
engineering, public utility, administrative and financial practices.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or assign any of its
property or assets, except in the normal course of its business.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any


﻿-10 -
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transa-
ctions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall revalue its fixed assets, in
accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank, once every calendar
year.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary or desirable
to: (i) continue to increase its rates for the sale of water by
3% every month up to and including March 1977, znd (ii) starting
April 1, 1977, increase its rates for the sale of water by 1-1/2%
every month over a period of twelve consecutive months.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank sha:ll otherwise agree:


﻿- 11 -
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take, or cause to
be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments of its rates for the sale of water) as shall be required to
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending
December 31, 1978, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 3.8% of one-half the sum of the current net value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in service and under construction at
the beginning and at the erd of that fiscal year.
(b) Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts, review the adequacy
of its tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in the preceding
paragraph (a) for the current and next following fiscal years, and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(1) The sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to water and sewerage operations,
consumer contributions in aid of construction
and net non-operating income; and
(2) The sum of all expenses of operation, includ-
ing maintenance and administration (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating


﻿- 12 -
charges), interest and other charges on debt,
repayment of loan principal (including sinking
fund payments, if any), all taxes or payments
in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, and any other
cash outflows other than capital expenditures
related to water and sewerage operations.
(ii) The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in service and under construction" means
the gross value of the fixed assets in service less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, plus the
value of fixed assets under construction, all valued
from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation or
ievaluation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net consolidated
revenues of the Borrower in the twelve consecutive months immedi-
ately preceding such incurrence shall be at least 1.4 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
twelve-month period following such incurrence on all debt of the
Borrower, including the debt proposed to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" includes the assumption and guarantee of debt and
shall mean all debt of the Borrower maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date of its incurrence;


﻿- 13 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date such
debt becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the
contract providing for such debt;
(c) "net consolidated revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of rates for the supply of
water in effect at the time of incurrence of the debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to
which such revenues related, less operating and administrative
expenses including provision for taxes, if any, but before provi-
sion for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), in-
terest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, lawfully obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to charge valorization charges to beneficiaries of any
water distribution facilities installed by the Borrower which
shall be sufficient to recover the cost to the Borrower of the
installation of such facilities.


﻿- 114-
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall, not later than one year
after the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Bank
shall agree:
(a) carry out a study to assess the impact of its rate struc-
ture on the different income levels of the Borrower's customers;
(b) promptly upon the completion of such study, furnish to
the Bank the results thereof and discuss with the Bank the feasi-
bility of the recommendations of such study.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall not commit expenditures
for any major expansion before the Closing Date, unless a financ-
ing plan therefor has been approved by the Bank.
For the purposes of this Section, "major expansion" means
a project or projects the aggregate expenditures for which are
expected to exceed in any one year $4,000,000 equivalent.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall:
(a) as and when the Borrower is paid the bills referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement, pay overdue bills
to agencies of the Guarantor on account of services rendered to
the Borrower by such agencies; and
(b) pay all bills for such services promptly as they become
due.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section-6.02-of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that Law No. 98 of the Guarantor
dated December 29, 1961 shall have been changed so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project or the efficiency of its operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date of September 9, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C
For the Borrower:
Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Nacionales
Via Brasil
Edificio IDAAN
Apartado No 52340 Zona 5
Pananf
Repu"blica de Panam(
Cable address:
IDAAN
PANAMA, R.P.


﻿-18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DE ACUEDUCTOS Y
ALCANTARILLADOS NACIONALES
By /s/ Manuel Alvarado
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for               214,000         13%
Part A of the
Project (exclud-
ing pipe instal-
lation)
(2) Civil works for               186,000         13%
Parts B and C of
the Project (ex-
cluding pipe in-
st allat ion)
(3) Equipment and mate-         2,500,000         100% of foreign
rials for Part A of                           expenditures
the Project
(4) Equipment and mate-         1,800,000         100% of foreign
rials for Parts B                            expenditures
and C of the Proj-
ect
(5) Equipment and mate-           900,000         100% of foreign
rials for Part D                              expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Meters and related            900,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures
(7) Foreign consultant            650,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(8) Local consultant              600,000         50%
services
(9) Interest and other          2,062,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or be-
fore May 31, 1980
(10) Unallocated                2,188,000
TOTAL      12,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures before
the date of this Agreement;
(b) from Categories (1) and (3), unless the Bank has been
furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Bor-
rower has obtained the necessary license to use such land and
Gatun Lake water as shall be required for purposes of Part A of
the Project; and


﻿- 22 -
(c) from Category (5), in the event that the Borrower car-
ries out the alternative described in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05 of this Agreement, unless the Bank has been furnished with
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Borrower has obtained
the necessary license to use such pipeline or pipelines as shall
be required for purposes of Part D of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (8),
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the


﻿- 23 -
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is (a) the construction and improvement of water
supply facilities in the Col6n Sub-project Area,* in the cities of
Chorrera and Arraij9n, in the corregimiento El Chorrillo of the
city of Panama, and in the fishing port of Vacamonte; and (b) the
improvement of the management of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Col6n Sub-project
1.   Construction of the first stage of a raw water intake
on the shore of Gatdn Lake and installation of the first
stage of pumping equipment, all with a capacity of 4 mil-
lion gallons per day (mgd) (final capacity 12 mgd).
2.   Construction of a water treatment plant for the Col6n
Sub-project Area with an initial capacity of 4 mgd (final
capacity 12 mgd) and with rapid mixing filtration and
chlorination only.
3.   Installation of a 20-inch raw water transmission pipe-
line about 1 kilometer long from the raw water intake
included in paragraph 1 hereof to the water treatment
plant included in paragraph 2 hereof.
*    For purposes of this Schedule "Coln Sub-project Area" in-
cludes the city of Colon and the suburban areas of the city
of Col6n known as Cativ9, Puerto Pil6n and Sabanita.


﻿- 25 -
4.   Installation of a 24-inch filtered water transmission
pipeline about 2 kilometers long from the water treat-
ment plant included in Part B hereof to the Colon Sub-
project Area.
5.   Construction of water distribution facilities in the
Col6n Sub-project Area.
6.   Rehabilitation of the water supply system of the city
of Col n, including a leak detection and repair program,
pitometric investigations, installation of house water
meters, and construction of reinforcements for such
system.
Part B:   Panama City Sub-project
Installation of water pipes and sewers in the corregimiento
El Chorrillo of the city of Panama.
Part C:   Chorrera Sub-project
1.   Improvement of the raw water intake and treatment plant
in the city of Chorrera to increase its capacity of
3 mgd to 6 mgd by means of, inter alia, installing
higher capacity low and high lift pumps and a duo media
bed, and building flocculation and sedimentation units.
2.   Improvement of the city of Chorrera water distribution
facilities, including installation of transmission
pipelines and of additional storage capacity.


﻿- 26 -
Part D:   Arraijin and Vacamonte Sub-project
1.   Construction of water supply facilities for the city
of Arraijri and the fishing port of Vacamonte.
2.   Construction of distribution facilities and storage
reservoirs in the city of Arraijan and the fishing port
of Vacamonte.
Part E:   Metering Program
1.   Installation of about 30,000 water meters and meter
boxes and their installation throughout the Borrower's
water supply system.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of water meter testing and
leak detection equipment.
Part F:   Management and Training
1.   Design and application of management systems appropriate
to the functions of the Borrower.
2.   Training of the staff of the Borrower in the design
and application of audit programs, in technical, eco-
nomic and financial analysis of projects, in treatment
plant operation, and in leakage detection and pitometric
survey of water distribution facilities.
T  P                *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1980                                   18o,000
June 1, 1981                                       190,000
December 1, 1981                              1    200,000
June 1, 1982                                       205,000
December 1, 1982                                   220,000
June 1, 1983                                       225,000
December 1, 1983                                   235,000
June 1, 1984                                       240,000
December 1, 1984                                   255,000
June 1, 1985                                       270,000
December 1, 1985                                   275,000
June 1, 1986                                       290,000
December 1, 1986                                   300,000
June 1, 1987                                       315,000
December 1, 1987                                   325,000
June 1, 1988                                       345,000
December 1, 1988                                   355,000
June 1, 1989                                       370,000
December 1, 1989                                   385,000
June 1, 1990                                       405,000
December 1, 1990                                   420,000
June 1, 1991                                       440,000
December 1, 1991                                   455,000
June 1, 1992                                       475,000
December 1, 1992                                   500,000
June 1, 1993                                       515,000
December 1, 1993                                   540,000
June 1, 1994                                       560,000
December 1, 1994                                   590,000
June 1, 1995                                       61o,ooo
December 1, 1995                                   635,000
June 1, 1996                                       675,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this coliun represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
Mbre than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years befbre maturity                    7-1/2%
Mbre than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   A general announcement of the Project in a form acceptable
to the Bank shall be made in at least 3 well-known publications
of wide international circulation. Individual contracts may be
advertised in local newspapers only.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works costing less than $100,000 equiva-
lent may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procurement procedures accept-
able to the Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate cost of
the civil works to be so contracted does not exceed $1,300,000
equivalent.
C.   Bidding Schedule
Contracts for civil works, equipment and materials shall be
grouped as follows:


﻿- 30 -
Contract No. 1:     final design and construction supervision;
Contract No. 2:     supply of water meters, meter testing and
leak detection equipment;
Contract No. 3:     supply drilling equipment and materials,
pipe casing and well screens;
Contract No. 4:     supply of water pipes and fittings;
Contract No. 5:     drilling of test wells in Col6n and con-
struction of production wells in Arraijfn
and Vacamonte;
Contract No. 6:     supply of equipment for and civil works
of the Col6n treatment plant;
Contract No. 7:     supply of equipment for and civil works
of the Chorrera treatment plant;
Contract No. 8:     laying of transmission and distribution
pipes in Col6n's suburbs;
Contract No. 9:     repairs to Col6n City's distribution
network;


﻿- 31 -
Contract No. 10:    laying of transmission and distribution
pipes in Arraijan;
Contract No. 11:    laying of transmission and distribution
pipes, construction of one storage tank
in Vacamonte;
Contract No. 12:    installation of transmission and distri-
bution pipes in Chorrera; and
Contract No. 13:    construction of one storage tank in Arrai-
jfn and another in Chorrera.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii) cug-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Panama may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:


﻿- 32 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Panama
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Panama equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Panama.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 33 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from groui C, all grour C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and all contracts for
equipment and materials:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿- 314-
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from t   Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿- 35 -
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed conies of such contract, together with
the analysis of respective the bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


