Documant of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12602-BR
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE
RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$3 MILLION
TO THE
BANK OF BRAZIL
FOR
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
OCTOBER 20, 1994
Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 30, 1993)
Currency Unit                     European Currency Unit (ECU)
US$1.00                    :      ECU 0.889719
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB           Bank of Brazil
CEC          Commission of European Communities
CMA          Comissao da Mata Atlantica (Atlantic Forest Commission)
FNMA         Fundo Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Enviromnent
Fund-Brazil)
FONAMA       Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente (National
Environment Fund-Bolivia)
G-7          Group of Seven
GAP          Grupo de Anglise de Projetos (Project Analysis Group)
GAPEP        Grupo de Apoio a Preparagco e Execucao de Projetos
(Proposal Preparation and Technical Support Group)
GTA          Grupo de Trabalho Amazonico (Amazon Working Group)
IAG          International Advisory Group
IBAMA        Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renovaveis (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and
Renewable Natural Resources)
MMA          Ministerio do Meio Ambiente e da AmazOnia Legal (Ministry
of Enviromnent and the Legal Amazon)
NGO          Non-governmental organization
RFT          Rain Forest Trust Fund
TS           Technical Secretariat
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Grant and Project Summary ..................................
Background ...........................................                                        1
Project Objectives .......................................    4
Description . ...........................................  4
Project Costs and Financing   ................................    6
Project Implementation ....................................    7
Sustainability ..........................................   10
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience .........................   11
Rationale for RFT Funding  .................................   12
Agreed Actions  ...........                 .............................    12
Environmental Aspects ....................................   13
Benefits .............................................. 13
Risks ................................................ 14
Recommendation  .......................................   14
SCHEDULES:
Schedule A - Estimated Project Costs ....................... 15
Schedule B - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ....                  ..... 16
Schedule C - Timetable of Key Processing Events   ....                 .......... 19
TECHNICAL ANNEXES:
Annex 1 - Project Administration  ........................   21
Annex 2 - Eligibility and Selection Criteria  ..................  28
Annex 3 - Financial and Legal Arrangements   ................   32
Annex 4 - Monitoring and Evaluation Plan  ..................  35
Annex 5 - Non-Governmental Organizations in the Amazon and
Atlantic Forest Regions  ....................   42
Annex 6 - Logical Framework    .........................   45
Annex 7 - Summary of Four Sample Sub-Projects   ....                   .........  51
Annex 8 - Reports and Documents in Project Files  ....                 .........  53
Annex 9 - Detailed Project Cost Tables  ....................   54
IBRD Map No. 25521
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil in
November 1993. Mission members were Robert N. Kaplan (Mission Leader),
Karen Luz (Community Development Specialist), Alberto Ninio (Environmental
Lawyer), Mary Sheehan (Financial Analyst), and Carlos Bertao (Operations
Specialist). The mission was joined by Kenny Bell (CEC), representing one of the
co-financing agencies. Garo Batmanian (consultant) contributed substantially to
project preparation. The Rain Forest Pilot Program Manager is Stephen J. Ettinger,
the Project Advisor is Orville Grimes, and the Country Director is Gobind T.
Nankani.






BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:                        Bank of Brazil
Executing Agency:                 Ministry of Environment and the Legal
Amazon
Beneficiaries:                    NGOs, community groups, and local
governments in the Amazon and Atlantic
Forest regions
Amount:                           US$3 million
Terms:                             Grant from the Rain Forest Trust Fund
Financing Plan:
Sourc                             TOTAL (US$ million)         PERCENT
Rain Forest Trust Fund (grant)            3.0                   13.5%
Germany (grant) (DM 20 million)           11.7                  53.0%
CEC (grant) (4 million ECU)               4.5                   20.0%
Beneficiary counterpart'                 3.0                    13.5%
Total                                    22.2                  100.0%
Economic Rate of Return:           N/A
Map:                              IBRD No. 25521
1 Counterpart funds are provided by recipients of the small grants, not by the
Brazilian government. This amount is estimated.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND
TO THE BANK OF BRAZIL
FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
1. I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed grant from the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT) to the Bank of Brazil for
US$3 million. The grant would finance Demonstration Projects in conservation and
sustainable development proposed and implemented by local communities, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), and municipal or state governments. This
project is part of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, which is
funded by the Group of Seven countries, the European Union, and the Netherlands,
and administered by the World Bank.
Background
2. Brazilian rain forests contain the largest repository of biodiversity in the world.
They are a major carbon store, and their destruction would occasion the release of
greenhouse gases that could affect the global climate. Conserving these forests would
provide significant benefits to the global community, as well as regional and local
populations. Nevertheless, by 1990 an estimated eight percent of the Amazon rain
forest had been destroyed. Over the last several years, the Brazilian government has
come to recognize that the policies of the past have led to short-term benefits but
greater long-term costs. There is growing public sentiment inside Brazil in favor of
protecting the resources contained in the country's rain forests. At the same time,
there is an increasingly vocal population in the Amazon region that is demanding that
local and national politicians address their legitimate desire for an improved standard
of living. Reconciling these interests by building the capacity of local communities to
develop, adapt, and implement environmentally sustainable approaches to development
is an important element in any long-term strategy for conserving the Brazilian rain
forest.
3. Several institutions, both public and private, have worked to control deforestation
in Brazil. Within the public sector, the Ministry of Environment and the Legal
Amazon (MMA) takes the lead at the national level, with policy implementation
carried out by the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources (IBAMA), and by state-level environmental agencies or forestry institutes.
NGOs have played an increasingly important role in conservation efforts. In an effort
to catalyze NGO efforts, in 1988 the government created the National Environment
Fund (FNMA), designed to fund local communities or governments in carrying out
conservation or sustainable development projects. The FNMA has since its inception
been plagued by an overly rigid governance and administrative structure, which
hinders its ability to disburse funds expeditiously. While reform to make the FNMA
a more flexible instrument is possible, it would require, inter alla, changes to the
legislation creating the fund or passage of complementary legislation. Work was



2
carried out during project preparation to determine how the FNMA could be provided
with greater flexibility and administrative autonomy. Because it is not possible to
implement the necessary changes in the short run, the FNMA would not be a suitable
recipient for the proposed project.
4. The Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest was initiated at the
request of the Group of Seven (G-7) at the Houston Summit in 1990. Individual
projects are financed by the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT), which was established by
Resolution 92-2 of the Bank's Executive Directors in March 1992, and by associated
bilateral co-financing (all on grant terms). To date, donors have provided about
US$55 million in pledges to the RFT. The Pilot Program is intended to support an
integrated set of projects that will contribute to a reduction of the rate of deforestation
in Brazil's rain forests. Preparation is currently underway for projects designed to:
(i) strengthen the capacity of the public sector to set and enforce sound environmental
policy; (ii) improve the management of special protected areas, including parks,
extractive reserves, national forests, and indigenous reserves; and (iii) increase the
knowledge base on conservation of the Amazon rain forests and sustainable utilization
of its resources. The proposed project would contribute to the overall objective of the
Pilot Program by making available financial and technical assistance to communities
and other local-level associations to adapt and implement promising environmentally
sustainable development approaches. Assistance under the proposed project would
complement actions undertaken as part of other Pilot Program projects (e.g. research,
extractive reserves, environmental education). For example, a sub-project funded by
the Demonstration Projects might test an experimental agro-forestry system developed
by a researcher funded under the Directed Research program. Conversely, results
obtained from sub-projects under Demonstration Projects would be analyzed and
disseminated broadly to local communities, other NGOs, researchers, and government
policy-makers.
5. Local-level development, testing, and adaptation of systems of sustainable natural
resource use are widely agreed to be an important element in overcoming historically
destructive patterns of natural resource use. In recognition of this fact, international
conservation groups have increasingly chosen to support such activities as
complementary to work at the policy level in their efforts to reduce environmental
degradation. Some governments have also recognized the importance of local-level
activities and have established mechanisms for channelling funds to support them,
such as the National Environment Fund in Bolivia (FONAMA) and in Brazil itself
(FNMA). Since environmental, economic, and social systems in environmentally
sensitive areas are highly varied, universally applicable solutions to problems of
sustainable natural resource use are unlikely. A technology that has worked under
one set of environmental, economic, and social conditions may not work under a
slightly different set, and thus potential solutions must be adapted to each setting. In
addition, many technologies have been developed by scientists under idealized
conditions in research tests, but are as yet unproven in the field with the intended
users.
6. Given the importance of community-based initiatives, limitations on the financial
and human resources available to local populations to develop, test, or adapt



3
sustainable approaches to natural resource use can become a bottleneck to progress
towards new paradigms. The Pilot Program will reinforce both public and private
resources and capacity at the local level for conservation and sustainable development
in the rain forest. Estimates vary as to how many private groups, including NGOs,
cooperatives, and producers' associations, are actively engaged in these issues at the
local level in Brazil. While many smaller groups do not have access to external funds
because they are not linked to international groups, or because the funds available are
limited, those that do have funding receive on the order of US$10 million annually to
carry out projects in such areas as sustainable agriculture, agro-forestry, and the
processing and marketing of forest products. Estimates of unfulfilled demand for
funds indicate that existing groups could absorb about three times as much money as
is currently available for conservation and sustainable development projects.
7. Amazon NGOs. Amazon NGOs are eager to have access to additional funds to
support their projects, and in order to facilitate their participation in the Pilot Program
NGOs in the region formed the Amazon Working Group (GTA) in 1991. The GTA
has grown rapidly and currently counts about 300 member groups. The specific
objectives of the GTA include the following: to facilitate the participation of local
populations in conservation and sustainable development activities in the Amazon; to
identify and promote the adoption of environmentally, socially, and economically
sustainable alternatives to current destructive patterns of natural resource use; to
exchange information about and experiences with activities aimed at conserving the
Amazon rain forest and promoting the well-being of its human inhabitants; and to
bring together Amazon inhabitants to discuss, analyze, and influence government
policy in the Amazon. In order to facilitate communication among members spread
throughout the vast area of the Amazon, the GTA has organized itself internally into
fifteen regions, of which nine currently maintain an office within the headquarters of
one of the GTA's member groups. The national coordination of the GTA is located
in Brasilia. The highest governing body is the General Assembly of all member
groups; an elected Directorate supervises day-to-day work, which is coordinated by
the Executive Secretary. A strategic planning exercise for the GTA was carried out in
August 1993 and followed up in April 1994 as an input into an action plan for
strengthening the GTA under the proposed project. For more information on the
history of the Brazilian NGO movement and the GTA, see Annex 5.
8. Atlantic Forest NGOs. Atlantic Forest NGOs created the Atlantic Forest
Commission (CMA) to represent them vis-a-vis the Pilot Program in early 1993. The
CMA is currently composed of eight NGOs and serves as liaison between the Pilot
Program and NGOs integrated into the Atlantic Forest Network. The Network, which
has experienced rapid growth, has almost 80 member groups, and in addition to
NGOs admits local governments, research institutes, and businesses, allowing them to
participate as non-voting members. The Network predates this region's involvement
in the Pilot Program and was created in 1992 as a loose association of groups working
on environmental issues in the Atlantic Forest, to facilitate their exchanging
information and coordinating action on issues of common concern. The Network
maintains its headquarters in the offices of one of its member groups, SOS Mata
Atlantica, in Sao Paulo, and is governed by a General Assembly, with coordination
between assemblies given over to a Coordinating Commission comprised of the same



4
eight member groups which form the CMA. For more information about the Atlantic
Forest NGOs, see Annex 5.
Project Objectives
9. The proposed project has three objectives: (i) to stimulate the development,
adaptation or dissemination of environmentally, economically, and socially sustainable
systems of natural resource management and conservation by local communities; (ii)
to inform other communities, groups that represent them, researchers, and
government policy-makers of the lessons learned from the local-level projects; and
(iii) to strengthen the capacity of local populations to plan and implement activities
leading to conservation and sustainable development, through support to the NGO
networks, the GTA and CMA.
Description
10. The project would consist of three components: (i) a small grants program; (ii)
dissemination of sub-project results; and (iii) NGO network strengthening.
11. Small Grants Program (90 percent of project cost). This component would fund
sub-projects evaluated and selected on a competitive basis, based on established
priorities. Individual grants would be limited to a maximum of US$150,000 a year,
and no group could receive more than US$300,000 total over the entire project. Sub-
projects receiving more than US$15,000 in funding would be required to contribute
counterpart funds. To receive over US$15,000 and up to US$50,000, the recipient
would have to provide at least 10 percent of total sub-project cost; to receive over
US$50,000 and up to US$100,000, to provide counterpart of at least 20 percent; and
to receive over US$100,000, to provide counterpart of at least 30 percent. Sub-
project grants would be used to procure small civil works, equipment, supplies, and
consultant services. This component would also cover administrative costs for the
project management unit.
12. Eligible sub-projects would be expected to reduce pressure to clear native forests
by supporting: (a) nature conservation; (b) environmentally sound management of
already deforested land; or (c) low impact use of native forest resources. Sub-projects
funded under the small grants program would have to meet strict eligibility and
selection criteria. Eligibility criteria would serve to screen applicants in order to
assure that they are legitimate groups with experience in environmental or community
work in the region, that they are in compliance with existing legislation and are not
indebted to public or private parties, and that they have fulfilled their responsibilities
in any earlier commitments with the Demonstration Projects. Selection criteria would
ensure that the sub-project responds to the objectives of the Demonstration Projects,
that it will not have a negative environmental impact, that it is sustainable and
replicable, that the local population participates in its planning and implementation,
and that the proposing organization has developed an adequate work plan which it has
the capacity to implement. For further information about eligibility and selection
criteria, see Annex 2.



5
13. Sub-projects would represent a range of activities, from first-time trials of new
ideas to practical application of documented natural resource management techniques.
Qualified sub-projects in the area of nature conservation would support activities such
as: environmental education for local populations in sensitive areas such as buffer
zones; environmental enforcement procedures that make innovative use of local
communities; and management of local protected areas, such as private reserves, by
local groups. Qualified sub-projects in the area of environmentally sound
management of already deforested land would include activities such as agro-forestry
using native species, and dissemination of sustainable agricultural practices. Qualified
sub-projects in the area of low impact use of native forest resources would include:
community management of concessions in national forests; processing and marketing
of non-timber forest products, such as Brazil nuts; and development of indigenous
handicrafts based on sustainable use of natural products extracted from standing
forests. For examples of possible sub-projects, see Annex 7. Qualified grantees
would include community groups, NGOs, local governments, and small producer
associations and cooperatives in the Amazon and the Atlantic Forest. Seventeen
percent of the grant funds would be reserved for sub-projects in the Atlantic Forest.
14. Evaluation and Dissemination of Sub-Project Results, to other communities,
NGOs, local and central governments, researchers, and other interested groups (7
percent of project cost). In order for funded sub-projects to have a demonstration
effect, their results must be publicized to others. This component of the project
would fund the collection, analysis, and communication of relevant sub-project
experiences. Analyses would be based on monitoring and evaluation reports, or, in
some cases, on primary data collection. The medium for communication of results
would vary depending on the target audience and would include publications, radio
programs, and workshops, among other media. The dissemination component would
pay particular attention to presenting information in an appropriate fashion to the
target population, employing experts in popular communication techniques for this
purpose. Follow-up to dissemination of information would be carried out by the GTA
or CMA, or could take the form of new sub-projects funded by the small grants
program. For example, an organization could propose a sub-project to provide
support to a number of communities to implement a natural resource management
practice identified as successful by a previous sub-project.
15. Many innovative natural resource management practices are already in use in the
Amazon and Atlantic Forest regions. However, because they are often small-scale
and isolated, they have not been effectively evaluated or disseminated to other
potential users. At the outset of the Demonstration Projects, a study would be carried
out under the supervision of the Technical Secretariat (see para. 19) to identify and
assess existing practices. Information gathered through this study would be the first
input into the project's dissemination system, allowing the project to begin
dissemination of useful natural resource management information before the first
results of successful sub-projects are available.
16. NGO Network Strengthening (3 percent of project cost). This component would
support GTA institutionally in order to facilitate GTA's collaboration in publicizing
the small grants program and providing technical assistance to potential or actual



6
grantees. It would also consolidate and strengthen the ability of Amazon NGOs to act
effectively and in a coordinated fashion on environmental matters through institutional
strengthening of the GTA. The positive contribution of NGOs in the environmental
sector, both in directly conserving natural resources and in monitoring and assisting
government's attempts to protect the environment, is widely recognized. Most
Amazon NGOs, however, are relatively new to work on the environment; many were
created to deal with social questions (see Annex 5), and only recently have come to
embrace environmental issues as closely tied to the well-being of the populations they
represent. This component would fund follow-up work to the strategic planning
exercise for the GTA, which was supported as a pre-investment activity of the project.
Regional offices of the GTA would receive assistance from the GTA national office to
develop their own action plans, which could be funded under this component, subject
to Bank approval. The grant would cover expenses of the national and regional
offices of the GTA at a declining rate over the project period, according to the
following schedule: 100 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar years
1994 and 1995; 80 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar year 1996;
and 50 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar year 1997. After 1997,
the GTA would be expected to cover 100 percent of its expenses from other sources.
Funded activities, including a study of long-term funding alternatives, would be
oriented toward creating a strong, independent association adept at articulating and
pursuing the interests of its members at the end of the funding period. A small
amount of funding would also be provided to the CMA under this component to carry
out activities in support of the Demonstration Projects, including publicizing the small
grants program, providing technical assistance in proposal preparation to members,
and disseminating sub-project results.
Project Costs and Financing
17. Total project costs are estimated at US$22.2 million equivalent. A breakdown of
costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of
procurement and disbursement of the proposed RFT grant and a disbursement
schedule for the RFT grant and for external funds are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of key processing events is given in Schedule C.
18. The project would be financed by the RFT (US$3 million), Germany, through
KfW (DM 20 million, equivalent to US$11.7 million), and the European Union
through the Commission of the European Communities (CEC) (4 million ECU,
equivalent to US$4.5 million). Because German funds will not be available until an
intergovernmental agreement between the German and Brazilian governments is
negotiated and signed, funds from the RFT and CEC will be used to initiate the
project. The RFT grant would cover expenses associated with the Technical
Secretariat, the processing of sub-project proposals, monitoring and evaluation of sub-
projects, and dissemination activities. Co-financing from the European Union would
be provided on a parallel basis, to cover the NGO network strengthening component
and a portion of the sub-project grants. Co-financing from Germany would be
provided on a parallel basis for expenses incurred by the Technical Secretariat in
proposal processing, technical assistance, supervision, evaluation, training, or
dissemination. Germany would also fund sub-project grants on a parallel basis. The



7
CEC funds would be deposited in a co-financing trust fund established in and
administered by the Bank and disbursed to the Bank of Brazil in accordance with the
Grant Agreement negotiated between the Bank and the Bank of Brazil. German funds
would be disbursed to the Bank of Brazil in accordance with a legal agreement to be
negotiated between KfW and the Bank of Brazil. Counterpart in cash or kind would
be provided by the sub-project grantees. The figure of US$3 million in counterpart
funds is an estimate and may vary depending on the size composition of the final
portfolio of sub-projects, due to the variable counterpart requirement (see para. 11).
The Brazilian federal government would provide office space for the project
management unit, referred to as the Technical Secretariat (see Project
Implementation). Several donors have indicated interest in providing additional co-
financing during implementation of the project, which was originally estimated to cost
US$30 million.
Project Implementation
19. Project Administration. The project management unit (called the Technical
Secretariat) would coordinate and supervise the implementation of all three
components of the project and carry out directly the dissemination component, under
the supervision of the Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon. The
Technical Secretariat would report directly to the MMA's Executive Secretary. The
Technical Secretariat would begin operations with four professional and three support
staff, and would add other staff as necessary. It would be headed by a Technical
Secretary, with adequate qualifications and experience. The project would award
grants over a three-year period, but would maintain the Technical Secretariat and the
dissemination component for an additional two years in order to provide support to
sub-projects which begin in the third year and to continue evaluating and
disseminating the lessons learned from the sub-projects. The GTA and CMA would
implement the NGO network strengthening component, under the supervision of the
Technical Secretariat.
20. The Bank of Brazil would receive funds directly from the RFTr and the donors
and hold them in Special Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to the World
Bank, until notified by the Technical Secretariat to make disbursements to sub-project
grantees, or for items related to the GTA or the CMA. To provide these services, the
Bank of Brazil would charge 1.65 percent of the amount disbursed. The Bank of
Brazil would also contract the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to
provide technical assistance to the Technical Secretariat, including training,
evaluation, and dissemination activities, and the services of two rosters of technical
specialists: the Project Analysis Group (GAP), which would provide technical
reviews of proposals, and the Proposal Preparation and Technical Support Group
(GAPEP), which would help groups reformulate promising proposals and provide
technical assistance to sub-projects under implementation. Technical Secretariat staff
would monitor and evaluate all three components of the project according to indicators
agreed with the Bank, including evaluation of a limited number of sub-projects each
year. For further information on project administration, see Annex 1.



8
21. Small Grants Program. An operational manual describing procedures for
processing and approving proposals and for implementing, supervising, and
monitoring and evaluating sub-projects would govern the functioning of the small
grants program. The operational manual would be a flexible document subject to
periodic modification by agreement between the Technical Secretariat and the Bank.
22. The Technical Secretariat would publicize calls for proposals on a continuous
basis. Technical Secretariat staff would screen proposals as they were submitted for
compliance with eligibility criteria and would send eligible proposals to two members
of the GAP for preparation of technical reviews. Technical reviewers would rate each
proposed sub-project on each of the selection criteria and would recommend proposals
for funding. They would also identify promising ideas among non-recommended
proposals for which technical assistance in proposal formulation should be provided
by the project. Many Amazon and some Atlantic Forest NGOs are relatively new and
inexperienced in developing projects and making applications for funding. A manual
for preparing proposals which would be distributed with application forms would
assist less experienced groups in formulating a coherent project, and training and
other technical assistance would be made available with the assistance of the GTA and
CMA. Groups which submit proposals that are conceptually strong but technically
weak could be assisted in reformulating their proposals by technical specialists from
the GAPEP provided by the Technical Secretariat. Technical assistance for sub-
projects during implementation would also be available at the discretion of the
Technical Secretariat from the GAPEP.
23. A Board, called the Executive Commission, would make the final decision on
funding proposals. The Executive Commission, which has already been established,
is comprised of four representatives of the Brazilian government from agencies
involved in other Pilot Program projects, five representatives of NGOs active in the
Amazon and Atlantic Forest regions, and one representative of the Bank of Brazil.
The Technical Secretary would chair the Executive Commission, but would vote only
in the case of a tie. Groups of proposals would be evaluated by the Executive
Commission as soon as a specified (1) number of proposals had accumulated, (ii) total
volume of resources was requested, or (ii) period of time had passed since the last
evaluation. These figures would be established by the Technical Secretariat and
approved by the Executive Commission, and modified as necessary, in order to ensure
competition among proposals and efficiency and promptness in processing
applications. The Executive Commission would evaluate the proposals on the basis of
the technical reviews, taking into account priorities for funding set in consultation
with representatives of local populations. A restricted number of priorities could be
emphasized in some funding periods in order to counteract thematic imbalances in the
types of proposals received. To increase transparency, the Technical Secretariat
would make information on funding decisions publicly available after each meeting of
the Executive Commission.
24. The Bank of Brazil would receive funds directly from the donors and hold them
in Special Accounts, until instructed to make disbursements to sub-projects by the
Technical Secretariat. The Bank of Brazil would examine the financial reports and
accompanying documentation to verify that expenditures are consistent with the sub-



9
project's approved budget. The Bank of Brazil would withdraw funds from the
Special Accounts against signed contracts between the Bank of Brazil and the sub-
project grantee. Bank supervision missions would review actual expenditures for a
randomly drawn sample of sub-projects. For more information on the operation of
the small grants program, see Annex 1.
25. Dissemination. The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for the
dissemination component of the project. It would maintain one staff person with a
background in communications who would be primarily responsible for this
component. This component would comprise three activities: analysis of significant
sub-project results, preparation of materials for disseminating those results to different
audiences, and dissemination through workshops, publications, radio, and other
media. The Technical Secretariat could contract consultants to assist in these
activities. Target audiences and appropriate media of communication would be
identified according to the type of information to be disseminated.
26. NGO Network Strengthening. This component would be implemented by the
GTA and CMA, under the supervision of the Technical Secretariat. Disbursements
would be contingent upon proof of completion of an agreed work plan, as
demonstrated by presentation of receipts or other documentation to the Bank of Brazil
and progress reports to the Technical Secretariat. Expenses for the national office of
the GTA in Brasilia would be covered at a declining rate throughout the funding
period (see para. 16). Action plans prepared by regional offices of the GTA would be
approved by the World Bank and implemented by the regional organization, with
expenses covered at the same declining rate as the national office.
27. Procurement. Bank procurement procedures would apply to the RFT grant of
US$3 million. Under the terms of Resolution 92-2 of the Bank's Executive Directors,
other funding sources would also follow Bank procurement procedures. Because of
the small-scale, dispersed nature of expenditures under this project, it is estimated that
there would be no international competitive bidding. Most purchases would be made
in accordance with local shopping procedures. In case of expenditures exceeding
US$150,000 for works or services and US$100,000 for goods, Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would apply. Because many sub-
projects would be located in remote areas where multiple contractors or suppliers
would not be available, direct contracting would be allowed in those cases for works
and services less than US$35,000 and direct purchasing for goods less than
US$15,000. Direct contracting would be limited to an aggregate total of US$500,000
for works and services and US$500,000 for goods. Consultant services would be
obtained in accordance with the World Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.
Other than those consulting services to be provided under sub-project contracts, most
consultants would be individuals hired under long-term contract to work in the
Technical Secretariat or short-term consultants working on the GAP or GAPEP.
28. Except for the technical assistance to the Technical Secretariat provided by the
UNDP, implementation of procurement procedures would be the responsibility of the
Bank of Brazil, which would contract a consultant as necessary to assist with
implementation. In view of the fact that the majority of purchases would be relatively



10
small, no prior review by the Bank would be required. Ex-post review would be
carried out by the Bank of Brazil on a sample basis, as well as by World Bank
supervision missions. The UNDP would be responsible for implementation of
procurement procedures for technical assistance to the Technical Secretariat. UNDP
staff are experienced in Bank procurement procedures and would not be expected to
require outside expertise.
29. Monitoring and Evaluation. The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating each component of the proposed project, according to
indicators agreed at negotiations and modified as necessary during project
implementation by agreement of the Bank and the Technical Secretariat (see Annex 4).
The Executive Commission would oversee the Technical Secretariat in this task.
Recipients of funds would submit progress reports tracking physical and financial
indicators to the Bank of Brazil for transmission to and review by the Technical
Secretariat. Each grantee would also submit a final report at the conclusion of the
sub-project to the Technical Secretariat. Technical Secretariat staff and consultants
hired by the Technical Secretariat would visit sub-project sites regularly to verify
progress reported by the grantee, including, where appropriate, physical inspection of
goods and works. The Technical Secretariat would evaluate a limited sample of
completed sub-projects each year. The Technical Secretariat would also be
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the other two components of the project,
according to agreed indicators. The Technical Secretariat would submit semi-annual
progress reports on the project to the World Bank, which would include relevant
information on sub-projects from site visits and from sub-project progress and
evaluation reports. Each August, beginning in 1995, the Bank and the Technical
Secretariat would jointly carry out an annual review of the project, at which time
adjustments could be made to project design as necessary, in order to allow the
project to fulfill its objectives. For more information on monitoring and evaluation,
including indicators, see Annex 4.
Sustainability
30. The project would be sustainable on a number of levels. The innovative nature
of some of the activities to be funded would mean that in many cases their
sustainability is still untested. However, one of the selection criteria for sub-projects
would be their potential to be environmentally, economically, and socially sustainable.
Another selection criterion would be replicability, which in conjunction with the
dissemination component would have an ongoing multiplier effect in the innovation
and adaptation of sustainable management of natural resources at the local level. The
dissemination component would also provide valuable information on local-level
contributions to the public debate by means of dissemination to government decision-
makers, and would create better linkages and dialogue between them and local
populations. In the private sector, the proposed project would: (i) by increasing their
experience in preparing proposals and implementing projects, build the capacity of
local communities in the Amazon to seek and obtain their own funding directly from
national and international sources; and (ii) through its support for the NGO networks,
provide local communities in the Amazon and the Atlantic Forest greater access to
information and provide them the means to act in a coordinated manner to influence



11
policy-making. The NGO network strengthening component would explicitly address
the issue of sustainability by funding a study and follow-up work on developing
funding sources for the GTA, including membership fees.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
31. Two types of projects with which the Bank has substantial experience are relevant
to the proposed project: (i) social investment funds, and (ii) science research grant
programs. Among the lessons learned from Bank experience with social investment
funds, the following are most relevant to the Demonstration Projects: (i) protect the
funding mechanism from political interference; (ii) create a flexible funding
mechanism that can be modified as experience proves necessary; (iii) develop an
effective management information system and accountability mechanisms in order to
ensure the transparency of the fund's operation; (iv) promote the program vigorously
in order to assure sufficient demand; (v) ensure high-quality projects by adequate
monitoring and evaluation; (vi) overcome NGO distrust of working with the
government through transparency and efficiency of the funding mechanism, and also
through integrating NGOs into the process of grant-making; (vii) minimize weaknesses
in NGO capacity to design and execute projects effectively through institutional
support and proposal preparation support; and (viii) require counterpart funding in
order to assure commitment on the part of the proposing agency.
32.   Bank experience with science research through grant programs has yielded the
following lessons relevant to the Demonstration Projects: (i) competition for funds
leads to higher efficiency and quality in proposed projects, and effective peer review
of project proposals guarantees technical quality; (ii) access to peers, both in the form
of personal interaction in workshops and seminars and via publication of results,
fosters the creation of an active and productive scientific community; (iii)
establishment of funding priorities leads to the most efficient use of scarce resources;
and (iv) findings should be utilized in the design of national development strategies
and policies.
33.   The design of the Demonstration Projects reflects most of the lessons
mentioned above. Promotion of the grants program and assistance to interested
groups in proposal preparation are included in project design. The funding
mechanism would be transparent and fair, with review by outside experts of the
technical adequacy of proposals and NGO representation on the Executive
Commission which makes final decisions on funding. Commitment to the sub-project
by the implementing organization would be strengthened by the requirement that all
but the smallest sub-projects contribute counterpart funds. A review would be carried
out after the first round of grants is awarded to make any adjustments that might be
deemed necessary. This would help ensure flexibility in the funding mechanism, as
would the annual reviews. Monitoring, evaluation, and dissemination of results would
be a major component of the project. Because of the project's association with the
Pilot Program, sub-project results would be communicated to the broader Pilot
Program audience, including Brazilian policy-makers.



12
Rationale for RET Funding
34. One of the objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil,
discussed by the Bank Executive Directors on June 29, 1993, is to identify ways to
encourage vigorous agricultural and industrial growth, while at the same time
strengthening institutions and initiatives that will preserve the environment and reduce
rural poverty. The proposed project is fully consistent both with the objectives of this
strategy as it applies to rural and rain forest areas and with the objectives of the Rain
Forest Pilot Program. The proposed project would allow community groups and local
institutions to apply and adapt strategies for sustainable development at the local level.
The project would reinforce other Pilot Program projects by funding sub-projects
which support their efforts in such areas as extractive reserves, national forests,
natural resource management, and indigenous reserves. At the same time, the
proposed project would help strengthen local NGOs, governments, and other project
executors in their institutional capacity to identify and manage sustainable
development and conservation projects. Both the sub-projects themselves and the
increased institutional capacity are expected to increase the effectiveness and long-term
sustainability of the other Pilot Program projects.
Agreed Actions
35. At negotiations, agreements were reached on: (i) the content of the technical
assistance to be provided to the Technical Secretariat; (ii) the contents and use of the
operational manual, which would be modified only in consultation with the Bank,
including specific funding priorities for the small grants program; (iii) criteria for the
selection of technical reviewers, an initial roster of reviewers, and procedures for
adding to the roster; (iv) a process for annual review of the project; (v) standard
contracts between the Bank of Brazil and sub-project grantees; (vi) carrying out of an
annual audit; and (vii) submission to the Bank of an annual operating plan satisfactory
to the Bank by December 31 of each year; an agreed monitoring and evaluation
system for the small grants program and the dissemination component of the project
will be an integral part of the plan, including indicators for each component. Prior to
RVP approval of the RFT Grant, the Financing Agreement for the CEC co-financing
of the project was signed by the CEC and the Bank. Prior to effectiveness: (i) MMA
will establish the Technical Secretariat with key staff in adequate number and with
adequate qualifications; (ii) the Bank of Brazil will enter into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank with MMA and UNDP; and (iii) MMA will submit to the
Bank an annual operating plan satisfactory to the Bank for the remainder of calendar
year 1994. Prior to disbursement: (i) for the first set of approved sub-projects, the
Bank will review and approve the funding decisions of the Executive Commission; (ii)
for all sub-projects, grantees will enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank with the Bank of Brazil; (iii) for expenditures by the Technical Secretariat or
the Executive Commission, such expenditures will have been included in the annual
operating plan found satisfactory by the Bank for that year; (iv) for the GTA
institutional strengthening component, the Bank will approve a detailed institutional
strengthening plan submitted by the GTA national office, which presents a strategic
vision for the organization and concrete steps toward it to be funded during the
project period, including a monitoring and evaluation plan and indicators for



13
measuring progress; and (v) for the GTA and CMA strengthening components,
respectively, GTA and CMA will enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank with the Bank of Brazil. All disbursements for consultant services under the
GTA strengthening component would be made against contracts falling within a single
disbursement percentage period (100%, 80%, or 50%-see para. 16).
Environmental Aspects
36. By their nature, sub-projects funded in the project may have some impact on the
environment, and therefore the project has been given a "B" rating. However, the
main objective of the project is to support only sub-projects with a neutral or a net
positive environmental impact. In the areas in which funding would occur, grave
threats to the environment already exist. Funding for approved sub-projects is
intended to demonstrate the viability of less damaging alternatives to existing
practices.
37. The sub-project review process would include specific attention to the
environmental sustainability of the activities financed. For sub-projects with
potentially negative environmental impacts, a simplified environmental impact analysis
would be carried out. These sub-projects would be monitored during implementation
for environmental impact, and ex-post evaluations of environmental impact would be
carried out for sub-projects chosen for dissemination. The World Bank would verify
during supervision missions that these procedures are adequate to exclude sub-projects
with a net negative environmental impact from receiving funding under the project.
For more information on environmental analysis procedures, see Annex 2.
Benefits
38. The major benefit of the proposed project would be the lessons in small-scale
conservation and sustainable development that would be learned and disseminated
through the project in support of the other Pilot Program projects. The end result
should be a menu of different technologies adapted to different external environments
which have been proven to work with the end-users. Government policy-makers
would benefit from information on innovative experiences in conservation and
sustainable development, which could inform their efforts to create a policy
framework conducive to conservation of Brazil's valuable natural resources. Local
communities would benefit in a number of ways. They would benefit directly from
successful sub-projects which contribute to a higher standard of living based on
environmentally sustainable activities, as well as from their increased understanding of
the concept of environmental sustainability and its importance for their future
livelihood. Local communities would also benefit as the NGOs, local governments,
and other groups which represent them gain experience in successfully preparing and
implementing conservation and sustainable development projects, and from the
consolidation of the GTA, which would facilitate information exchange and policy
dialogue with the federal government. Both national government and local
communities would benefit from an experience of closer collaboration between the
federal Environment Ministry and grassroots efforts in conservation and sustainable
development.



14
Risks
39. There are three major risks related to the sub-project funding component: (i)
there will be insufficient demand; (ii) poor quality sub-projects will be selected for
funding; and (iii) favoritism or political pressure will influence funding decisions. An
analysis of demand indicates that there is sufficient demand for funds, and the project
will publicize the small grants program widely in order to ensure that groups are
aware that funding is available. The proposed project would minimize the other risks
by: (i) using independent technical reviewers to judge which proposals are of
sufficient quality to be funded, and providing technical assistance to improve
conceptually strong but technically inadequate proposals; and (ii) using fully
transparent procedures and clear, rigorous eligibility and selection criteria to select
sub-projects for funding.
Recommendation
40. I am satisfied that the proposed RFT grant would comply with Resolution 92-2 of
the Bank's Executive Directors and recommend approval of the grant.
Gobind T. Nankani
Director, Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 20, 1994



15                             Schedule A
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ '000)
COMPONENT                                  Local   Foreign     Total
A. Small Grants Program                   19,929         0     19,929
B. Dissemination                           1,565         0      1,565
C. NGO Strengthening                        706          0       706
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       22,200         0     22,200



16                                    Schedule B
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Procurement method
Expenditure category                  ICB       LCB       Other       NBF         Total
Sub-project contracts*                                    3,728      13,856 -   17,584
(O )                 .....$  ....... t00 j-
Consultants                                                601        632
(531}                  00000::
Travel                                                      736                     738
(522)
Training                                                    455                      455
(455)
Equipment                                                   111                     11 1
(70)
Materials/supplies                                          77                       77
(48)
Miscellaneous services" *                                  1,539                  I,53S
(1,319)
Administrative fees and auditing                           253        212           465.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (5 5 )
TOTAL                                       0         0   7,500      14,700   X- 22:260
(3,000)
ICB   = International competitive bidding
LCB   = Local competitive bidding
NBF  = Not Bank financed (Germany and beneficiary counterpart)
Other = Includes shopping procedures and consulting services to be procured according
to Bank guidelines. Direct contracting would be allowed for works and services
less than $35,000, and goods less than $15,000, up to aggregate amounts of
$500,000 for works and services and $500,000 for goods.
(RFT Grant amount in parentheses)
* Maximum grant for each sub-project is $150,000 per year and $300,000 total
* Includes services such as printing, editing, radio programs, and video productions



17                                  Schedule B
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Disbursement by category
Category              RFT Amount CEC Amount               Disbursement rate
(USS)       (ECU)
Small Grants Program               3,000,000                    100%
Technical Assistance for  2,650,000
the Technical Secretariat
(i) Consultant and Other  2,000,000                             100%
Services
(ii) Travel Expenses    550,000
(iii) Goods             100,000
NGO Network                         470,000
Strengthening for GTA                          100% of total expenditures made during
(i) Consultant and Other            190,000   1994 and 1995; 80% of expenditures made
Services                                       during 1996; and 50% of expenditures made
(ii) Travel Expenses                210,000   during 1 997 and thereafter.
(iii) Goods                          70,000
NGO Network                          70,000
Strengthening for CMA
(i) Consultant and Other             15,000                     100%
Services
{ii) Travel Expenses                 50,000
(iii) Goods                          5,000
100% of fee for RFT expenditures by the RFT
Administration Fee      50,000       65,000    grant and 100% of fee for CEC expenditures
by the CEC grant
Auditing                             50,000                     100%
Unallocated             300,000     345,000
TOTAL                  3,000,000   4,000,000



18                               Schedule B
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
RFT Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
World Bank Fiscal Year           1995    1996    1997        1998    1999
Annual                             600      892       797      460      251
Cumulative                         600     1492      2289     2749     3000
External Funds Disbursement Schedule*
(US$ o000)
World Bank Fiscal Year           1995      1996     1997     1998    1999
Annual                            3465     3319      5432     5391      1593
Cumulative                        3465     6784    12216    17607    19200
v Includes funds from the RFT, the CEC, and Germany



19                            Schedule C
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:              15 months (August 1992 to October 1993)
Prepared by:                        Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon
Non-governmental organizations
World Bank: Karen Luz, Robert Kaplan, Garo
Batmanian (consultant)
Peer reviewers:                     John Clark (OPRIE)
Margaret Grosh (PRDPH)
First Bank mission:                 August 1992
Appraisal mission departure:        November 1993
Date of negotiations:               May 1994
Planned date of effectiveness:      November 1994
Summary supervision plan:           Missions are planned for 4-6 month intervals to
supervise progress.
Technical expertise:   Ecologist, community
development specialist, financial analyst, natural
resource economist.
One mission each year will be designed as an
annual  review,  during   which   project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation
procedures will be assessed and changes
introduced as necessary.



20
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex 1.      Project Administration
Annex 2.      Eligibility and Selection Criteria
Annex 3.      Financial and Legal Arrangements
Annex 4.      Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Annex 5.      Non-Governmental Organizations in the Amazon and Atlantic Forest
Regions
Annex 6.      Logical Framework
Annex 7.      Summary of Four Sample Sub-Projects
Annex 8.      Reports and Documents in Project Files
Annex 9.      Detailed Project Cost Tables



21                             Annex 1
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
1. Organizational Structure. The project as a whole would be coordinated by the
Technical Secretariat, headed by the Technical Secretary. A Board, called the
Executive Commission, would meet periodically to set overall guidelines for the
project and to make decisions on which proposed sub-projects to fund. The Executive
Commission would be comprised of representatives of the federal government, the
NGOs from each region, and the Bank of Brazil. Two ad hoc groups of consultants,
the Project Analysis Group (GAP) and the Proposal Preparation and Technical
Support Group (GAPEP), would provide assistance to the Technical Secretariat in
analyzing and reformulating proposals and for backstopping projects under
implementation. Membership networks representing the NGOs of the Amazon and
the Atlantic Forest would assist in publicizing the grants program among their
members and providing training to less experienced NGOs in proposal preparation, as
well as in disseminating lessons learned from sub-projects. Detailed descriptions of
the composition and responsibilities of each of these bodies are found below.
a) Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat would be housed within
and supervised by the Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon and would be
headed by a Technical Secretary appointed by the Minister of Environrment in
consultation with the NGOs. It would begin operations with four professional and
three support staff and add staff as necessary in response to the volume of work. The
Technical Secretariat would be responsible for coordinating all three components of
the project: the small grants program, the dissemination component, and the NGO
network strengthening component, including monitoring and evaluation for all three.
The Technical Secretariat would receive sub-project proposals, screen them for
compliance with eligibility criteria, assign them to members of the GAP for analysis,
and reassign them to members of the GAPEP for reformulation as necessary. It
would send proposals on to the Executive Commission for final decisions, notify grant
recipients and groups whose proposals have not been funded, and instruct the Bank of
Brazil to release funds to grantees. Technical Secretariat staff or consultants would
work with grantees to develop an adequate monitoring and evaluation plan before sub-
project implementation would begin. During project implementation, Technical
Secretariat staff would approve alterations requested by grantees in the approved
workplan or budget, for changes over 10 percent of budget or a ceiling of US$3,000.
They would maintain project files and databases and make relevant information
available to the interested public. Technical Secretariat staff or consultants would
visit sub-projects during implementation and carry out final evaluations of a random
sample of sub-projects after their conclusion. They would coordinate the analysis of
sub-project experiences which would serve as a base for the dissemination component



22                             Annex 1
of the project, and they would design and implement dissemination activities, assisted
by consultants as necessary. They would periodically evaluate the performance of the
GAP and GAPEP and recommend additions or replacements for these rosters. They
also would supervise and assist the implementation of the institutional strengthening
component of the project by the Amazon Working Group (GTA) and those activities
carried out by the Atlantic Forest Commission (CMA) in support of the
Demonstration Projects which would be funded by the project.
b) Executive Commission. The Executive Commission would be composed
of 10 members and chaired by the Technical Secretary, who would vote only in the
case of a tie. Four members would represent the government and would be appointed
by government agencies involved in other Pilot Program projects. Five members
would represent NGOs, with three appointed by the NGOs in the Amazon and two
appointed by Atlantic Forest NGOs. One member of the Executive Commission
would represent the Bank of Brazil. The Executive Commission would meet
periodically to consider sub-project proposals and decide which would be funded. It
would approve an annual work plan for the project as a whole, set priorities for
different funding cycles, approve the appointment of consultants to the GAP and
GAPEP, and take action on Technical Secretariat recommendations for removal of
consultants from these rosters. It would also review and evaluate the progress reports
submitted periodically by each sub-project.
c) GAP and GAPEP. The GAP and GAPEP would be rosters of local or
foreign consultants who are experts in areas relevant to the Demonstration Projects.
The rosters would be assembled and the members periodically evaluated by the
Technical Secretariat, and they would be approved by the Executive Commission.
Members of the GAP would provide technical reviews of sub-project proposals
submitted for funding. They would receive an orientation to the project before
reviewing the first round of proposals and would be guided in their reviews by a
manual. They would fill out a detailed evaluation form for each proposal, rating the
proposed sub-project separately on each of the selection criteria, as well as giving an
overall rating. Members of the GAPEP would provide technical assistance to
reformulate proposals judged promising but poorly formulated, as well as providing
technical backstopping to sub-projects under implementation as requested by the
Technical Secretariat. They would receive training in project preparation to assure a
common methodology among all the consultants on the roster, which would include an
orientation to the project.
d) NGO networks. The NGO networks, the Amazon Working Group (GTA)
and the Atlantic Forest Commission (CMA), representing the Atlantic Forest
Network, are described in Annex 5. They would support the small grants program by
publicizing it among their member groups, providing assistance and training in
preparing proposals, and collaborating in the analysis and dissemination of sub-project
results. In addition, institutional strengthening of the GTA would be funded through
the project to allow the network to become a permanent and effective organization for
representing the interests of its member groups in the future.



23                              Annex 1
e) Bank of Brazil. The Bank of Brazil would receive funds directly from the
donors and hold them in Special Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to the
World Bank, until instructed to make disbursements to sub-projects by the Technical
Secretariat, or for items related to the GTA or the CMA. The Bank of Brazil would
contract the UNDP to provide technical assistance to the Technical Secretariat
including all activities associated with the Technical Secretariat, the Executive
Commission, the GAP, the GAPEP, and training, evaluation, and dissemination. The
Bank of Brazil would sign contracts with grantees for sub-projects which have been
approved by the Executive Commission and would be responsible for examining
documentation from sub-projects to verify that funds have been used as indicated in
the workplan. It would maintain records on the use of project funds and report
periodically to the Technical Secretariat, the World Bank, and the donors. Project
records held by the Bank of Brazil would be audited annually and individual sub-
projects would be subject to an annual audit, including physical and procurement
audit, on a sample basis. A random sample of records would also be reviewed by the
World Bank and donors during the annual review. An operational manual would
regulate the basis upon which the Bank of Brazil would provide grants to sub-project
proposals. The operational manual would contain the eligibility and selection criteria,
a definition of the characteristics and responsibilities of the various entities involved in
proposal processing and sub-project implementation, a description of the process of
submission, technical review, and consideration of sub-project proposals, information
about provision of technical assistance for proposal reformulation, an explanation of
environmental analysis procedures, and disbursement and reporting procedures during
sub-project implementation. The operational manual could be revised as necessary by
agreement between the Technical Secretariat and the Bank.
2. Proposal processing. The processing of sub-project proposals would be comprised
of the following steps:
a) Calls for proposals would be issued continuously by the Technical
Secretariat. Each call for proposals would define funding priorities for the
period.
b) The GTA and CMA would assist the Technical Secretariat to publicize the
calls for proposals among their member groups. The GTA and CMA would
also assist the Technical Secretariat to provide technical assistance and training
to groups interested in applying for grants.
c) Eligible groups would submit proposals to the Technical Secretariat, using
the standard application form and manual. Proposals would be accepted on a
continuous basis.
d) The Technical Secretariat would screen proposals for compliance with the
eligibility criteria and would assign each eligible proposal to two technical
reviewers from the GAP. Proposals for sub-projects requesting US$5,000 or
less in financing would be sent to just one reviewer.



24                              Annex 1
e) GAP members would review proposals and rate them on each of the
selection criteria. They would also give an overall rating of one of the
following categories: not recommended, recommended with conditions,
recommended. These ratings would be returned to the Technical Secretariat.
f) In the case of a discrepancy in overall rating (recommended/not
recommended) between the two technical reviews, the Technical Secretariat
would submit the proposal to a third reviewer. The Technical Secretariat
would return those proposals recommended with conditions to the proposing
organization for revision when the conditions were minor. If the Technical
Secretariat were to judge that the inadequacies of the proposal would be
difficult to resolve by the proposing organization, the Technical Secretariat
could offer the proponent assistance from the GAPEP.
g) The Executive Commission would meet periodically to evaluate proposals.
Meetings of the Executive Commission would be called by the Technical
Secretary when any one of the following conditions were met: (i) 90 days had
passed since the previous meeting; (ii) 60 proposals were ready for
consideration; or (iii) the proposals ready for consideration represented 30
percent of the resources available for that year.
h) The Technical Secretariat would send all proposals of US$5,000 or more
to the Executive Commission for final decisions. Proposals under US$5,000
would be decided upon by the Technical Secretary in consultation with one
member of the Executive Commission and reviewed by the entire Executive
Commission at the next meeting.
i) The Executive Commission would decide which sub-projects to fund based
on the technical reviews and the priorities set for that funding cycle. Sub-
projects which were not approved because they did not fit the priorities of that
funding cycle could be retained for consideration in a future cycle.
j) The Technical Secretariat would notify groups of the action taken on their
proposals and make publicly available information on which sub-projects
received funding. It would notify the Bank of Brazil to begin disbursing funds
to sub-projects according to their budgets and workplans. Technical
Secretariat staff would also work with sub-project personnel to agree on
monitoring and evaluation indicators.
k) The Bank of Brazil would sign contracts with grantees for approved sub-
projects, and make an initial disbursement as instructed by the Technical
Secretariat.
1) Subsequent disbursements to sub-projects would be made in accordance
with Bank procedures. At the time of each disbursement, a progress report
tracking physical and financial indicators would be presented to the Bank of
Brazil and transmitted by the Bank to the Technical Secretariat for review.
Review of the report would not be a condition of disbursement, but the



25                               Annex 1
Technical Secretariat could suspend subsequent disbursements if the report
were not satisfactory. Receipts for expenditures under the sub-projects would
be presented to the Bank of Brazil by grantees and verified by the Bank of
Brazil as eligible expenditures in accordance with the sub-project workplan.
m) The Technical Secretariat staff and consultants hired by them would visit
sub-projects periodically to verify progress as reported in the progress reports
and to assist in addressing problems which might arise during implementation.
n) The Bank of Brazil would contract an annual audit of project records,
including a sample of sub-projects. World Bank supervision missions would
also review actual expenditures for a randomly drawn sample of sub-projects.



26                      Annex 1
Ficrure 1. Project Administration and Responsibilities
Executive|
Commissionn    
Proposals                        *Interested
public
Funding                                      *Central/
decisions                  -Dissemination--    local
governments
Proposal                      - _         _                          I
Preparation    Technical                                 Technical       Project
and       --assistance          Technical        '--opinions       | Analysis
Technical      requests           Secretariat                            Group
Support                                            FProposals--_   (GAP)
Group
(GAPEP)                                         -
Proposals    Publicity, training;
Funding                  sub-project
decisions                   monitoring and
Technicallevaluation
Technical
assistance
ONGOs
*Municipal/state
-.l   governments
eCommunity groups
NGO
Publicity,      networks
training-



27                      Annex 1
Figure 2. ProRosal Processina
Bank
*World Bank            Contracts    l          of
*Donors                            _Brazil
T
(4)
Authorization
Executive                                  to fund
|CommDission
I               )(3) Selected proposals
(2)          -
Eligible proposals
Technical
Secretariat
T
(1) Proposal
(5)
Sub-proj ect contract
*NGOs
*Municipal/state
governments
eCommunity groups



28                              Annex 2
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION CRITERIA
Eligibility Criteria
Proposed sub-projects are eligible under the following conditions:
a) The proposal must be presented by Brazilian entities which:
(i) have been legally constituted for at least one year by 90 days prior
to the date on which the Executive Commission will consider the
proposal;
(ii) are not for profit, except in the case of cooperatives, associations,
agricultural credit unions, and small producer associations;
(iii) have experience in projects in natural resource conservation or
sustainable development, or in activities in conjunction with local
populations in the Amazon or Atlantic Forest;
(iv) are not in a state of default; that is:
-the entity is not indebted to government or other entities.
The organization should supply standard Brazilian
documentation (certificate of non-indebtedness);
-the entity is up to date with accounting requirements in other
projects under the Demonstration Projects;
-the entity has not failed to fulfill the goals of previous
projects funded under the Demonstration Projects, or such
failure has been adequately justified.
(v) Organizations which have not been legally constituted, but which
work with or represent local populations, may apply for funds through
sponsoring organizations which fulfill the above requirements.
b) Proposals must follow project guidelines. In particular, proposing
institutions must:
(i) request financing of no more than US$150,000, per institution, per



29                               Annex 2
year, not to surpass a total of US$300,000 for all sub-projects in a
single institution over the course of the Demonstration Projects;
(ii) provide counterpart funds of at least 10 percent of project cost for
projects over US$15,000 and up to US$50,000, at least 20 percent for
projects over US$50,000 and up to US$100,000, and at least 30
percent for projects costing more than US$100,000. Sub-projects
costing US$15,000 or less are not required to present counterpart
funds.
c) present a work plan for up to three years;
d) submit the application form completely filled out;
e) if the sub-project includes civil works, submit the following documentation:
(i) complete description of the civil works;
(ii) construction material used;
(iii) estimate of costs and timeline for construction;
(iv) proof of ownership of the property; and
(v) location where the construction will occur.
f) submit proposals for sub-projects which are in compliance with all existing
legislation, including environmental legislation;
g) include sub-project administrative costs which do not exceed 15 percent of
the funds received by the sub-project, for financing of up to US$100,000, and
10 percent for projects of US$100,000 or more.
Selection Criteria
Sub-projects will be selected for funding according to the following criteria:
a) relevance of the sub-project to the objectives of the Pilot Program and to
the general and specific objectives of the Demonstration Projects;
b) clear definition of methodology and reasonable costs;
c) adequacy of the proposed activities to accomplish the stated objective of the
sub-project;
d) possibility for guaranteeing the continuation of the activity after financing
from the project ends, through other outside funding or financial self-



30                                 Annex 2
sufficiency;
e) probability that the activities are environmentally sustainable;
f) relevance of the sub-project to the priorities defined for the funding period;
g) innovativeness and replicability of the activities, at the municipal, state, and
regional levels;
h) participation of the affected population in the planning, implementation, and
evaluation of the results of the sub-project;
i) social viability, that is, that the activities respond to needs identified by the
affected population;
j) if the sub-project supports productive activities, potential of the activities to
be economically viable, and impossibility of funding the activity with
commercial or other sources of credit;
k) technical and administrative capacity of the sponsoring institution to execute
the proposed sub-project.
Environmental Sustainability
Environmental sustainability (criteria (e) above) will be determined in the following
fashion. Technical reviewers will screen proposed sub-projects to determine whether
they include any of the following activities, which could have a negative
environmental impact:
- road construction
- dam construction
- use of pesticides or fertilizers
- deforestation
- timber extraction
- civil works
- large animal husbandry
- wild animal husbandry
- commercial fishing
- fishing for ornamental species
- predatory extractivism
- ecotourism
- use of exotic species
- product processing
- use of large quantities of non-biodegradable materials
- dredging and/or filling
If the sub-project includes activities which may have a negative impact on the
environment, the technical reviewer will analyze the probable environmental impact



31                               Annex 2
and characterize it as significant or negligible. If the impact is considered significant,
the technical reviewer will analyze whether mitigating measures could be taken which
would decrease the environmental impact of the activity such that it is less negative
than the corresponding traditional or alternative activity. In this case, the sub-project
can be considered to be environmentally sustainable, as long as the mitigating
measures are adopted.
For all sub-projects involving activities with a potentially negative
environmental impact, the environmental impact will be monitored during
implementation. If the sub-project should be chosen for dissemination after its
completion, the Technical Secretariat will once again analyze the environmental
impact of the activity, in order to ensure that widespread adoption would not result in
unacceptable levels of negative environmental impact.



32                             Annex 3
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
1. The Demonstration Projects would make some 400 grants averaging US$30,000 to
US$50,000 to numerous small organizations scattered over a large area.
Disbursements would be made over a period of five years, and expenditures for
individual items in sub-project budgets are likely to be small. In order to minimize
bureaucratic delays in the transfer of funds to the final grantees and to maximize
efficiency in monitoring sub-project expenditures, the Bank of Brazil, which has a
large number of branch offices linked by a sophisticated on-line transfer network
throughout Brazil, would assume responsibility for financial flows between the
project's Special Accounts and individual sub-project implementers. The Ministry of
Environment and the Legal Amazon, through the Technical Secretariat, would retain
responsibility for all technical aspects of the project, through a set of legal instruments
defining the role of each entity in project implementation.
2. Financial Structure. For administrative simplicity, the project would be divided
into three funding components:
a) Small Grants Program. This component would include only the costs of
grants made to sub-projects approved by the Executive Commission. The
Bank of Brazil would transfer these funds to sub-projects or pay expenses
directly to suppliers of goods or services to sub-projects. The Technical
Secretariat would provide the Bank of Brazil with sub-project documentation,
including an approved workplan, and instruct the Bank of Brazil to sign a
contract with the grantee and begin disbursements. The Bank of Brazil would
check receipts to verify that expenditures are those agreed, while the
Technical Secretariat would be responsible for monitoring the technical
progress of the sub-project, through site visits and reports from grantees.
b) Technical Assistance for the Technical Secretariat. This component would
consist of assistance to the Technical Secretariat to carry out its functions,
including publicizing the small grants program, processing proposals,
coordinating proposal analysis and technical assistance for proposal
reformulation, and monitoring sub-project implementation. It would also
include all training activities, routine sub-project and overall project
evaluation, analysis to produce inputs for the dissemination program, and all
dissemination activities. The Bank of Brazil would contract the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to provide the technical assistance,
with expenditures made according to an annual workplan approved by the
Bank.



33                             Annex 3
c) NGO Network Stren2hening. This component would include all
assistance to the GTA, both national and regional offices, and to the CMA.
The Bank of Brazil would sign contracts with the GTA and CMA and transfer
funds to them, in accordance with expenditures made and approved by the
Bank.
3. Legal Structure. The following legal structure would govern the project:
a) The World Bank would sign a Grant Agreement with the Bank of Brazil,
under which the Bank of Brazil would receive grant funds from the RFT and CEC.
The Bank of Brazil would use these funds to finance the project components described
in paragraph 2 above.
b) The Bank of Brazil would sign the following contracts:
(i) with sub-project grantees, for the Small Grants Program
component, and with the GTA and CMA, subsidiary grant agreements
regulating sub-project execution;
(ii) with the Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon (MMA),
defining the role of the MMA and the Technical Secretariat in project
implementation; and
(iii) with the UNDP, defining responsibilities for the implementation
of the technical assistance component.
4. Disbursement. The proceeds of the proposed grant would be disbursed according
to the following percentages: the Rain Forest Trust Fund would provide 82 percent
of the funds for the component for Technical Assistance for the Technical Secretariat.
The CEC would provide 100 percent of the funds for the NGO Network
Strengthening component, and 25 percent of the funds for the sub-project grants.
Germany would provide 18 percent of the funds for the Technical Assistance for the
Technical Secretariat and 58 percent of the funds for the sub-project grants. Each
donor would pay 100 percent of the administration fees assessed on its own funds
(UNDP and Bank of Brazil), and the CEC would pay 100 percent of auditing costs.
Beneficiary counterpart would provide 17 percent of funding for sub-project grants.
Disbursements are expected to be completed over a five-year period (as reflected in
Schedule B). The project's completion date would be October 31, 1999, and the
closing date would be April 30, 2000. Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000
would be granted for eligible expenditures incurred after August 1, 1994 for the GTA
portion of the NGO Network Strengthening component. In order to ensure efficient
and timely implementation of the project, two Special Accounts, with initial deposits
of US$200,000 and US$270,000, would be established in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The Special Accounts would earn interest which would be
credited in its entirety to the project. Because the project would involve a substantial
number of small contracts all estimated to be less than US$150,000 equivalent,
disbursements would be made under the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedure,
prepared and certified by the Bank of Brazil. The Bank of Brazil has adequate



34                              Annex 3
accounting controls for this purpose, and has demonstrated capability to make the
required funds transfers in an efficient and timely fashion. The grant would cover
expenses of the GTA at a declining rate over the project period, according to the
following schedule: 100 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar years
1994 and 1995; 80 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar year 1996;
and 50 percent of expenses would be funded during calendar year 1997. For more
information on disbursement procedures for individual sub-projects, see Annex 1.
5. Accounting and Auditing. The accounts of the Bank of Brazil are examined
annually by private external auditors, as well as government auditing bodies. During
negotiations it was agreed that the Bank of Brazil would maintain records and
accounts for the project. The project account would be audited annually, along with
the Bank of Brazil corporate accounts, by private external auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The annual audit would be based on audit of a sample of sub-project accounts
to include, inter alia, all sub-projects expected to cost more than US$100,000. The
audit would include physical inspection of goods and works in the field and supporting
documentation for procurement decisions for a sample of sub-projects. Audit
requirements would also include provision of a Management Letter, a separate opinion
on the use of the Special Accounts and SOEs. These audit opinions would be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available each fiscal year, and in any cases not later
than six months after the end of each year. The Technical Secretariat, the Bank of
Brazil or the World Bank could request at any time that an additional or parallel audit
be carried out in the case of questions regarding the handling of funds under any
particular sub-project.
6. Donors. Funding from the European Union would be in the form of parallel co-
financing of NGO network strengthening and sub-project grants. Funding from
Germany would be in the form of parallel financing of Technical Secretariat expenses
and of sub-project grants. Funds made available by donors other than the World
Bank would follow a similar system as that described above. The CEC funds would
be deposited in a co-financing trust fund established in and administered by the Bank
and disbursed to the Bank of Brazil in accordance with the Grant Agreement to be
negotiated between the Bank and the Bank of Brazil.



35                             Annex 4
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
1. Objective. The objective of monitoring and evaluation under the Demonstration
Projects is to provide updated, timely information to assist project and sub-project
implementing agencies in reviewing progress achieved in their work and difficulties
encountered and to measure overall project performance and impact.
2. Results, The results of the Demonstration Projects' monitoring and evaluation
system include:
a) management of information from reports, studies and results of workshops
at both project and sub-project levels;
b) written and audiovisual results of the dissemination component;
c) reports to the Pilot Program's Executive Secretariat and to the World
Bank.
3. Responsibilities
In general, the Technical Secretariat will be responsible for project monitoring and
evaluation. Its responsibilities in this area include the following activities:
a) assist implementing agencies in designing their own monitoring and
evaluation system and its indicators;
b) establish, distribute and monitor standard forms to be used for sub-projects
with respect to financial, physical and other administrative indicators;
c) approve the design of monitoring and evaluation for sub-projects;
d) approve and inform executing agencies about final evaluation reports on
sub-projects;
e) combine data from sub-project reports for overall project monitoring and
evaluation;
f) collect data on performance indicators and performance of project activities
(publicity, processing of proposals, training, dissemination, GTA, CMA);



36                               Annex 4
g) prepare a consolidated six-month activity report for submission to the Pilot
Program's Executive Secretariat and to the World Bank. This report should
include the number of proposals received for sub-projects, a summarized
description of sub-projects, overall performance of financial and physical
indicators for the three project components, and an evaluation of the project's
progress and performance in relation to monitoring indicators;
h) prepare a consolidated evaluation report on the effectiveness of project
activities in terms of the overall objectives of the project, to be submitted
annually to the Executive Secretariat and the World Bank;
i) carry out visits to supervise sub-projects of particular interest or
importance, and those with evidence of serious implementation problems;
j) hire consultants to conduct evaluation studies of concluded sub-projects in
order to select cases with important lessons or which have significant potential
and size;
k) establish and operate a financial data system drawn from data extracted
from sub-project contracts and from payments made by the Bank of Brazil.
4. The monitoring of sub-projects is primarily the responsibility of implementing
agencies, which report periodically to the Technical Secretariat and depend on it for
support. Implementing agencies also participate in sub-project evaluation. These
agencies should:
a) design the monitoring and evaluation component as part of the sub-project
proposal, including monitoring indicators and indicators for evaluation of
progress toward sub-project goals;
b) continuously collect data required for reporting to the Technical
Secretariat;
c) submit reports to the Technical Secretariat every six months, based on
standard forms and including additional data, as agreed with the Technical
Secretariat;
d) prepare a final report upon sub-project completion, describing to what
extent the sub-project's objectives were met, problems and questions that were
raised during sub-project implementation, and new or replicable experiences
gained from the sub-project. Mid-term evaluations may be required by the
Technical Secretariat for projects having a duration of three years;
e) provide the Bank of Brazil with necessary financial information to enable it
to ensure timely release of initial and subsequent funds;
f) cooperate as needed with supervision visits, analysis and evaluation
reports, evaluation workshops and reviews of beneficiaries' responses.



37                               Annex 4
5. The Technical Secretariat will call upon the GAPEP to:
a) provide training for the design of monitoring and evaluation systems to
groups of potential beneficiaries, as part of its training program for sub-
project preparation;
b) provide training on the use of monitoring and evaluation techniques during
sub-project implementation training exercises.
6. The GAP will:
a) evaluate the design of monitoring and evaluation for sub-projects when it
analyzes proposals, indicating whether additional assistance may be necessary;
b) alert the Technical Secretariat during the evaluation of proposals about
certain cases in which external technical assistance may be required during or
after sub-project implementation.
7. The Bank of Brazil will have the responsibility to:
a) provide regular, consolidated reports containing payment requirements for
sub-projects and disbursements for the Technical Secretariat;
b) supervise the financial flow of sub-projects, check payments and
reimbursements according to the sub-project's timetable, and receive and
check receipts.
8. The World Bank will:
carry out an annual review of the project in conjunction with the Technical
Secretariat to determine whether the project is meeting its objectives and to
evaluate the project's contribution to overall Pilot Program objectives. The
Bank will summarize its conclusions in an annual report to Pilot Program
Participants.
9. Methods and Activities
a) project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by the Technical
Secretariat based on sub-project data, information from the project database,
and monitoring and evaluation data collected by the Technical Secretariat and
by consultants;
b) the Executive Secretariat and the World Bank will receive regular reports
on monitoring and evaluation, and the International Advisory Group (TAG)
and donors will receive summarized annual reports on the Demonstration
Projects through the World Bank.



38                                Annex
10. Monitoring and evaluation for sub-projects will be carried out using a series of
instruments, including but not limited to the following:
a) self-monitoring and self-evaluation for all sub-projects. Reports compiled
by implementing agencies can be supplemented by participatory evaluation
assisted by the Technical Secretariat or surveys of beneficiaries;
b) monitoring and evaluation visits by Technical Secretariat staff. Staff will
periodically visit sub-project sites to verify reported progress and evaluate
progress toward sub-project goals, especially for sub-projects experiencing
difficulties in implementation;
c) evaluation studies. Consultants will be hired to carry out studies on sub-
project implementation and evaluation, based on random samples, or
according to samples chosen by the Technical Secretariat.
11. The Technical Secretariat may hire consultants to conduct studies on sub-project
performance and impact in relation to critical management or technical issues. In
addition to data collected on a sub-project's contributions to the project's objectives,
in their evaluation studies consultants will assess the environmental and economic
sustainability of sub-project activities.
12. The following table defines the objectives, goals, indicators and data sources for
monitoring and evaluation. This table is a flexible instrument which will be modified
as appropriate during project implementation. It does not include indicators for the
NGO network strengthening component, as these indicators will be reviewed and
finalized by NGO representatives and the Bank after the activities of this component
have been finalized.



Monitoring                              Goal/Source                           Evaluation                           Goal/Source
Objective 1.
Generate informnation
1.1 Finance sub-        % of proposals received which are        Goal: Ist year 50%; 2nd year       Percentage of completed sub-projects     Goal: Ist year 30% successful; 2nd
projects within         approved                                 65 %; 3rd year 75%                 considered successful', by subject area,  year 50%; 3rd to 5th years 75%.
established priorities                                           Source: MIS'                       type of organization, region              Source: consultant reports
No. and amount of funds by size category    Goal: Within 10% of proposed
of executed sub-projects                 figures
Source: MIS
No./amount of funds by subject area     Goal: At least 5 % of funds each
year dedicated to each of the
established priorities
Source: MIS
No./arnount of funds by type of          Goal: Maximum of 20% of funds
organization                             for public institutions; no rrunimum
Source: MIS                     l 
No./amount of funds by region           Goal: 17% of funds for Atlantic
(Amazon/Atlantic Fom;st)                 Forest
Source: MIS
'MIS: Management Information System
2A sub-project is considered successful when (i) it contributes to attaining the overall objectives of the Demonstration Projects of conservation and sustainable development,
and (ii) it is judged to be replicable.



Monitoring                              Goal/Source                           Evaluation                           Goal/Source
1.2 Finance training,   No. of participants and organizations    Goal: Compliance with training     % of acceptable' proporals from          Goal: 65 %
meetings for            involved, by type of organization and    timetable                          organizations which received training    Source MIS
information exchange,    region                                  Source: MIS                        during proposal preparation
etc.
% of compliance with admtinistrative and  Goal: 80%
accounting norns                         Source Bank of Brazil
% of organizations which receive training  Goal 65 % experience improvement
in organizational structure that experience  Source: Study of randomly selected
improvement in their organizational      organizations compared to baseline
structure                                data4
1.3 Set up project      Compliance with timetable for setting up  Goal: Compliance with timetable   % of proposals processed within established   Goal: 90% within 90 days
adminisdration          Technical Secretariat (TS)               Source: MIS                       time limits                                Source: MIS
Compliance with timetables for sub-     Goal: 70% compliance                % of sub-projects which receive funds    Goal: 90% within 72 hours of request
projects                                Source: MIS                        within established time limits            for eligible requests
Souree: MIS/RBB
No. of technical visits rmade by TS or  Goal: Compliance with timetable
consultants; no. per sub-project        Source: MIS                        % of reformulated proposals recommended    Goal: 75%                                 -
by GAP after reformulation               Source: MIS                               o
% of technical opinions submitted within  Goal: 90%
established time limits                 Source: MIS                         % of problematic sub-projects assisted by  Goal: 75%
TS or GAPEP that reached their stated    Source: MIS
% of GAPEP technical assistance carried  Goal: 80%                         objectives
out within established time limits       Source: MIS
% of indicated corrective actions taken as    Goal: 100% of unacceptable
result of TS annual performance review of   members removed and replaced
GAP and GAPEP                           Source: TS annual reports
3 A proposal is considered acceptable if it is presented according to the guidelines provided in training.                                                                      Z
4 Baseline data would be colected at the training, and a foUow-up interview of a sample of organizations would be carried out later.                                            4



Monitoring                             Goal/Source                           Evaluation                          Goal/Source
1.4 Publicize the       Cornpliance with Publicity Plan         Goal: Publicity Plan (to be       No. of organizations that request        Goal: To be determined
objectives of the                                               developed)                        information about the program            Souce: To be determined
project and                                                     Source: MIS
mechaniasm for
applying for grants     No. of proposals by source of information    Goal: Sources efficient in relation
about project                           to coats
Source: Question in application
form
Objective 2:
Diunemination
2.1 Inventory of        No. of experiences documented per       Goal: 150 experiences             Evaluation of the perception of participants    Goal: 75 % of participants for cases in
existing experiences    subject area                            Soure: Report from study of       in meetings, etc. of the relevance and   which audience size is known
existing experiences              potential replicability of the disseminated  (workshops, etc.)
experiences and the adequacy of the      Source: Study of randomly selected
2.2 Identify replicabke  No. of experiences selected for        Goal: Minimum of 5 per subject    medium of communication                  participants or other neans
experiences             dissemination by subject area           area; 5 priority reaas                                                     appropriate to the mnedium of
Source: MIS                                                                communication
2.3 Carry out           No. of participants and organizations in  Goal: 100% within 6 months of
information exchange    meetings by region; comptiance with     completion
meetings                timetable                               Soure: MIS
2.4 Document and        % of successful mb-projects documented  Goal: Compliance with timetable
evaluate experiences    by subject area and region              Soure: MIS
2.5 Produce materials   Type and quantity of mraterials, by type of   Goal: Compliance with timetable
audience                                Soure: MIS
2.6 Carry out           No. of participants and organizations   Goal: Compliance with timetable
dissemination activities   involved, by region and type of      Source: MIS
organiz-tion
I



42                             Annex 5
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS IN THE AMAZON AND
ATLANTIC FOREST REGIONS
1. The history of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in Brazil has been dated
by one author, Leilah Landim,' to the 1960s, when the first NGOs emerged from the
social work of the Catholic Church and, secondarily, some Protestant denominations.
While growing out of church pastoral work, these groups were generally autonomous
from the church hierarchy. Called "Popular Education Centers" or "Social Promotion
Centers," they served as rallying points for members of civil society who opposed the
military dictatorship. With the transition to civil government in the 1980s, many more
NGOs emerged, especially, according to Landim, in the environmental field. In
1988, she estimated that some 400 national NGOs were concerned with enviromnental
issues in Brazil. She characterizes the environmental NGOs as extremely diverse and
fragmented into "minute and localized groups." By 1992, the Brazilian Directory of
Environmental Organizations listed 1533 NGOs working on conservation issues in
Brazil, according to the World Wildlife Fund.
2. In the industrialized countries, environmental groups have generally originated
with the primary purpose of working to conserve the environment. In Brazil, by
contrast, groups concerned with environmental issues have a bifurcated history.
Many emerged as social action organizations, dedicated to defending the interest of a
particular social or ethnic group--such as Indians or rubber tappers-and later
developed environmental interests through a realization of the linkage between the
group's livelihood and environmental conservation. The assassination of rubber
tapper leader Chico Mendes in 1988 brought to international attention the struggle of
local populations to preserve their environment and their way of life.
3. The two regions of Brazil covered by the Demonstration Projects, the Amazon and
the Atlantic Forest, differ markedly not only in their ecosystems and relative levels of
development, but also in the history of their environmental movements. The Atlantic
Forest, stretching along the coast in the most populous areas of the country, has been
largely destroyed by centuries of development. Less than nine percent of the original
forest remains standing. In the last decade, dozens of groups, large and small, have
sprung up to defend the last remaining vestiges of this forest. These are traditional
environmental NGOs, created for the express purpose of environmental conservation.
They tend to be based on a membership of educated, middle-class urban dwellers,
much like environmental organizations in the industrialized countries. While the
' Leilah Landim, in 'Brazilian Crossroads--NGOs, Walls, and Bridges,' Development,
Journal of the Society for International Development, 1991:1, pp. 91-95.



43                              Annex5
funding of many groups is precarious, the socio-economic status of their membership
and their location in major urban centers gives them better and easier access to
funding from both domestic and international sources.
4. Despite alarming levels of deforestation in the late eighties, over 90 percent of the
original Amazon forest cover remains. While the majority of the Amazon population
is now urban, urban centers are smaller, newer, and have less well-developed
infrastructure than do urban centers in the Atlantic Forest region. NGOs that have
emerged in these regions, such as the National Council of Rubbertappers (CNS), have
generally originated as social movements or as groups dedicated to providing social
assistance. Because many traditional lifestyles have less negative impact on natural
resources than newer production technologies, groups dedicated to defending the
livelihoods of traditional forest dwellers were able to form strategic alliances with
conservation-oriented environmental groups, pursuing a common objective of
conserving the rain forest while guaranteeing the rights of the populations that lived in
and from it. Generally, traditional forest dwellers in the Amazon are poorer, more
rural, and less educated than the membership base of Atlantic Forest groups, and
consequently they have more restricted access to and more difficulty in successfully
applying for funding or technical assistance from outside sources. Because the people
these groups represent are generally very poor, their ability to raise funds from their
membership is limited in comparison to the Atlantic Forest.
5. NGOs working on environmental issues have come together to form associations
in each region in recent years. Due to the differences in the history and
characteristics of the environmental movement in the two regions, these associations
are distinct in organization and function. It is both because the Pilot Program as a
whole is focused on the Amazon and because of the relative strength of NGOs in the
Atlantic Forest region that the Demonstration Projects emphasize institutional
strengthening and training for the Amazon NGO association and not for the Atlantic
Forest association. The two associations, the Amazon Working Group (GTA) and the
Atlantic Forest Network, are described below.
6. The Amazon Working Group. Catalyzed by the announcement of the Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, in 1991 NGOs in the Amazon
organized themselves into an NGO association, the Amazon Working Group (GTA).
Membership in the GTA has grown rapidly, from about a dozen when it was first
formed to almost 300 member groups today. The GTA has six specific objectives,
according to the statute which creates it: (i) to maintain a network for exchanging
information about activities aimed at conserving the Amazon rain forest and protecting
its human inhabitants; (ii) to monitor and to promote participation in the preparation,
monitoring, and evaluation of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest; (iii) to organize civil society to discuss, monitor, and participate in
environmental and socio-economic development activities carried out in the Amazon;
(iv) to create a vehicle for dialogue between civil society and government on public
policy in the Amazon; (v) to consolidate the mechanisms for participation of local
populations in the planning, monitoring, and execution of development policies in the
region; and (vi) to analyze, discuss, and monitor government programs directed at the
Amazon region.



44                             Annex 5
7. In order to facilitate communication among members spread throughout the vast
area of the Amazon, the GTA has organized itself internally into 15 regions. Nine
regions maintain a regional GTA office within the headquarters of one of the GTA's
member groups. The national coordination of the GTA is seated in Brasilia. The
highest governing body is the General Assembly of all the member groups, which
meets periodically to elect the Deliberative Council and to approve programs, reports,
and expenditures by that body. The Council meets twice a year to consider actions
submitted to it by the Directorate, comprised of officers elected by the General
Assembly. Day to day work is coordinated by an Executive Secretary appointed by
the Directorate. Partial financial support for the GTA has been provided by the
Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon, the Commission of the European
Communities, and the United Nations Development Programme.
8. The Atlantic Forest Network. The Atlantic Forest Network (Rede Mata Atlantica)
was formed in 1992 during the Rio Conference on Development and the Environment.
Its objective is to promote exchanges among NGOs working for the conservation of
the Atlantic Forest and its associated ecosystems. From the original ten members, the
Network has grown to approximately 80 member groups. In addition to NGOs,
businesses, research institutes, and government agencies may be affiliated, although
they may not vote. Affiliated groups pay dues on a sliding scale according to their
size. The majority of members (59) characterize themselves as small groups,
estimated to have annual budgets of less than US$30,000 per year. These groups pay
US$10 per year in dues. Six members characterize themselves as large, estimated to
have budgets of over US$300,000; these groups pay US$50 per year in dues. The
Network also receives donations to help cover its operating costs. Its infrastructure is
minimal, consisting of an office within the Sao Paulo headquarters of the NGO SOS
Mata Atlantica. A Coordinating Commission, comprised of representatives of eight
member NGOs, coordinates Network activities between meetings of the General
Assembly.
9. The activities of the Network to date are centered on the exchange of information.
Affiliates receive a weekly bulletin and are connected to each other via Alternex, a
computer network, as well as through conference calls and meetings. The Network
also publishes a bimonthly journal for public distribution. Member groups generally
concentrate their efforts on classic environmental work. Nearly one-quarter of
projects reported by member organizations focused on preservation of fauna, while 17
percent focused on conservation of flora, and 16 percent on environmental education.
Only 10 percent of projects focused on sustainable development issues.
10. The Atlantic Forest Network is represented in the Pilot Program by the Atlantic
Forest Commission (CMA). The CMA is composed of representatives of eight
member groups and has no infrastructure or office of its own.



Annex 6
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
LOGICAL FRAMEWORK



OBJECTIVE I                  ACTIVrITES                     PREMISE                     RESULTS                       PREMISE                   INDICATORS                    SOURCES
To generate infornation     I. Finance sub-projects     - Supported sub-projects      - % of sub-projecta          - Resources channeled.      - Total nunmber of           - Executive Commission
about conservation,        within established           are oriented to obtaining    actually implemented.        - Technical assistance       approved gub-projects.       reports.
preservation or            prioritics.                  desired information,                                      provided.                    - Number of approved         - Technical Secretary
gsutainable management                                  - Supported sub-projects                                  - Monitoring system          sub-projects, classified by  (17S) reports.
of natural resoucres by                                 have a multipher effect                                   imnplemented.                subject.                     - Sub-project reports.
local populations through                               - Funded sub-projects have                                                             - Number of approved         - GAP technical opinions.
demonstration activities,                               an overall strategic effect.                                                           proposals, by sub-           - Bank of Brazil reports.
- Supported activities are                                                             region/stAte.                - Repona by
sustainable following the                                                              - Number of sub-projects    CMA/Atantic Forest
conclusion of the                                                                      sent to GAP.                 Network and GTA.
Demonstration Projects.                                                                - Numnber of sub-projects    - Reports by tiraning
- Processing,                                                                         assited by GAPEP.            teans.
documentation and                                                                      - Volume of resourees
validation of reslts                                                                   released, by sub-
obtained.                                                                              region/stte and subject.
- Number of NGOs (basic
and support) considered by
project.
- Number of public
institutions considered by
project. 
2. Finance courses,          - Existence of qualified     - % of organizations which    - Training for sub-project  - Numnber of NGOa,
seminars, inforrnal and     trainers,                     have been given training     administration carried out,    official insitutions and
formal meetings to          - Seminars meet actual        and which are able to        - Training for analysis and    local populations trained,
publicize the project,       demand,                      administer sub-projects.     formulation of proposals    in relation to total target
analyze problems, and        - Populations' absorptive    - % of sub-projects able to   carried out,               group.
prepare proposals.           capacity is adequate.        generate relevait            - Technical trinuing in      - Numnber of courses,
- Determination to           experiences.                 subject areas carried out.   seminars, informal and
implement new                - % of training agents.      - Training of training       formal meetings held, by
information,                                              agerns carried out.          subject and sub-
- Retention of trined staff   region/state.
in the organizations.     I



3. Set up management           - Possibility of hiring saff.    - Disbursement timetable      - Resource availability        - Planned infrastructure set    - Executive Comnission
structure to:                  - Technicians hired are        for assisted sub-projects,      according to plan.             up.                             reports.
- Receive proposals            qualified.                      - Processing of proposals      - Hiring of sufficient staff.    - Number of technicians       - TS repors.
- Analyze proposals            - Joint nanagement by TS        (in 4 months).                                                and professionals hired for    - Sub-project reports.
- Evaluate proposals           and NGO representatives.        - Relation of TS                                              the TS.                        - GAP technical opinions.
- Sign contracts               - Executive Comnission         adrninistrative costs to                                       - Number of technicians        - Bank of Brzil reports.
- Carry out technical and      are efficient,                 total funds disbursed,                                         and professionals involved     - Repors by
financial monitoring of        - Mechanisms to guarantee                                                                     in GAP.                        CMA/Atlantic Forest
sub-projects                   continuity of management                                                                      - Number of evaluation,        Network and GTA.
- Provide technical            structure, rninimizing                                                                        monitoring and follow-up       - Reports by training
assistance                     political risks,                                                                              visits made                    staff.
- Evaluate sub-projects                                                                                                      - Number of informal and
- Provide feedback on                                                                                                        formal meetings to held
management system.                                                                                                           evaluate sub-projects.
- Creation of Executive
Commxission and number
of meetings held.
- Number of ongoing sub-
_________________                                                                    __________________             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~projects.
4. Publicize project           - Ongoing joint                - % of NGOs, public             - Communication media          - Number of sub-projects
objectives and grant          tmnagement actions by            institutions and local         used effectively,              submitted.
application process.           TS, GTA and CMA.               populations covered. 
- Resources available
0>



OBJECTIVE 2                 ACTIV=lIES                   PREMISE                     RESULTS                     PREMISE                   INDICATORS                   SOURCES
To transfer information   I. Review significant       - Availability of resources    - Replicable experiences  - Significant experiences  - Number and type of        - Sub-project reports.
from existing             existing experiences        and meanS of                made available.             exist.                      inventoried replicable      - Review of experiences.
experiences and from                                  communication and                                                                   experiences.
ub-projects upported                                  transportation.
by the project to other
comnumnities, decision
makers, government
technicians and other
Pilot Program projects.
2. Identify experiences     - Availability of resources    - Rephcable experiences  - Significant experiences   - Number and type of       - Repors by CMA/
with greater potential for  and means of                made available,             exist.                     inventoried replicabie      Atlantic Forest Network
replication,               conmnunication and                                                                  experiences.                and GTA.
transportation.
3. Hold meetings and        - Availability of resources    - Knowledge about        - Availability of technical    - Number, subjects,     - Reports on informnation
carry out other activities  and public irterest,        preaervation, conservation    skills,                   organizations and           exchange activities.
for purposes of                                         and sustainable             - User interest,           populations panicipating in
information exchange                                    management of natural                                   meetings and other
among participants.                                     resources,                                              information exchange
activities.
4. Document, organize and   - Content and type of       - Material available for    - Release of scheduled      - Number and subjects of    - Documents and reports
evaluate experiences.       message adapted to          dissemination,             funds (scheduled times and    documents produced.       on sharing of experience.
audience.                                               conditions).
S. Prepare dissemination    - Availability of           - Material available for    - Release of scheduled      - Number and subjects of    - Information from GAP
materials.                  resources,                  dissemination,             funds (scheduled times and    documents produced.       and GAPEP.
conditions).
- Availability of technical
skills.
6. Develop interactive      - Availability of technical    - Strengthening of joint  - Interest on the part of  - Frequency of various      - Reports on interactive
means of commnunication     skills,                     actions and integration of  NGOs and local public       means of communication     communication events
for various groups.                                     work,                       institutions,               used by groups of           held.
beneficiaries.



OBJECTIVE 3                ACTIVITES                    PREMISE                     RESULTS                    PREMISE                  INDICATORS                   SOURCES
To strengthen local       1. Establish channels of   - GTA regional offices and   - % of sub-projects,      - Technicians, NGOs and     - Number of persons,       - Reports by TS, GAPEP,
populations' ability to   participation by grassroots    CMA have sufficient     reflecting local priorities  profeuionals involved,    gtassroots and suppon-     GTA and CMA.
organize and              and support-level NGOs     communication               and realities,             who are trained in joint    level organizations and    - Reports by rmgional
communicate, and to       and populations involved   infrastructure.             - % of inforned grassroots   project preparation,      official institutions trained.   GTAs, CMA and the
prepare and implement     in analyzing, planning,                                organizations and local    - Joint management          - Number of NGOs, public   Atlantic Forest Nctwork.
sub-projects in light of  implemnnting, evaluating                               communities which          mechanisms among TS,        institutions and persons   - Repons by TS, GAPEP,
project objectives,       and redefining sub-                                    participate in various sub-    GTA and CMA that have    participating in various  GTA and CMA.
projects.                                              project stages.            been implemented.           sub-project stages.        - Repors by TS, GTA
- Number of planned        and CMA.
events that have been held.
- Number of sub-projects
actually implemented.
2. Promote studies and     - Funds released to hire    - Study of self-           - Suitable consultant hired.   - Approval of proposal for   - Final report by
irftplentent mechanisms for   specialized consultants and    sustainability ahernatives  - Proposal accepted and  GTA sustainability.    specialized consultants.
GTA self-sustainabitity.   imnplement proposal.        carried out,               resources available.       - Numerical and qualitative   - Reports by TS, GTA,
- Mechanisms for GTA                                  reults of proposal.         CMA, and direct
sustainabifity being                                                              observation.
niplemented.
3. Promote interchange of    - Existence of relevant   - Adoption of new          - Interchange mechanisms    - Number of experiences    - Reports by TS, GTA,
experience.                experience.                 knowledge.                 used effectively,          disseminated.               CMA, and direct                 '0
- Number of experiences    observation.
adopted.
4. Provide financial       - Approval and release of    - Basic structure of GTA  - Resources available.     - Number of equipentl/      - Adrministrntive/fnncial
wpport for basic operating    funds,                   and CMA defined, adopted                              vehiclesrinstallationa      repormt and docuaentation
tucure of GTA and                                      and being implemented.                                obtained and being used,    from GTA and CMA.
CMA.                                                                                                         - Number of technicians
and profeuionals hired at
egional GTAs.
(I



5. Fiance local            - Sub-projects approved      - Works integrated and      - Conwensus on local        - Quality and relevance of    - Reports by GTA, CMA
organization's sub-projects   and funds released.       interconnected,             problemns and priorities.   implemented proposals       and direct observation.
with a view to regional                                 - Imnproved relationship    - Joint discussion and      with respect to
linkages.                                               between NGOO and local-    preparation of sub-         environrental
level public institutions,  projects.                  conservation and standard
- Increased ability to     - Technicians and           of living of commnunities
coordinate interesu and     professionals trained in   involved.
increased sub-project      project managerment and
effectivenes.              coordination.
6. Fuiance meetings to     - Existence of resources.    - Definition of successes   - tnterest of interlocutors  - Number of meetings held    - Report on GTA and
evaluate the strengthening                              and failures for purposes   (GTA, CMA).                 and proposal to modify the    CMA meetings.
reached by participation in                             of providing feedback on                                organizational process.
project amd the process of                              the organizational process.
involvement in the
Amazon and Atiantic
Forest regions.
Q
ul
(D



51                            Annex 7
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
SUMMARY OF FOUR SAMPLE SUB-PROJECTS
The types of sub-projects which would be eligible for funding under the
Demonstration Projects are heterogeneous in subject matter, duration, and costs.
Below are four projects submitted to the FNMA for funding. While the last is
outside of the geographical area that would be served by the small grants program,
all of them would otherwise fall within the purview of the program.
1. "Fonte do Mato" Park (Cacapava do Sul - RS)
Executing Agency:     Public (municipal government)
Duration:             6 months
Total Cost:           US$15,000, of which own contribution of US$4,500 (30
percent)
Project Goal:         To improve the quality of life of the town population
Project Measures:     To create a protected forest park within the city limits; to
protect a headwater region/watercourse; to use the park
for environmental education
Target Group:         Approximately 80,000 inhabitants of the town of
Cacapava.
2. Inventory of Flora of the Artex Ecoloeical Park (Blumenau. Santa Catarina)
Executing Agency:      NGO (Artex Ecological Park--Teofilo Bernardo Zadrozny
Foundation)
Duration:              10 months
Total cost:           US$15,500, of which own contribution of US$5,100 (33
percent)
Project goal:         To gain knowledge about the existing vegetation in order
to facilitate the selection of appropriate criteria for the
conservation or rehabilitation of the park flora
Project Measures:     The executing agency, in cooperation with the local
botanical museum and the University of Santa Catarina,
will inventory flora existing in the Artex Ecological Park
(5,300 ha. of forest); analysis of the results; report on
findings.
Target Group:         Research institutes, forestry authorities/decision-makers
(not indicated in project proposal).



52                            Annex 7
3. Introduction of Agroforestrv Production Systems for Small Farmers.
Executing Agency:     NGO (Union of Rubbertappers, Small Farmers, and Rural
Workers, Rio Branco/Acre).
Duration:             36 months
Total Cost:           US$36,800, of which own contribution of US$15,100 (41
percent)
Project Goals:        To develop alternative (agro-silvo-pastoral) models for
sustainable management of settlement areas and thus to
contribute toward preventing slash-and-burn farming; to
cultivate already deforested areas;to improve the living
conditions of the small farmers.
Project Measures:     Production of the saplings needed for the project
(nursery); training and extension in the appropriate
technologies to be introduced; application of the
agroforestry production system by the families on 1
hectare plots.
Target Group:         100 small farm families per year.
4. Campaign Against Fishing vith Explosives (Salvador. Bahia).
Executing Agency:     NGO (Environmental Restoration Group)
Duration:             12 months
Total Cost:           US$430,000, of which own contribution US$400,000 (93
percent)
Project Goals:        to help preserve the flora and fauna of the bay
Project Measures:     Awareness campaign/environmental education; distribution
of information material; increased policing
Target Group:         Population of Salvador (not indicated in proposal).



53                              Annex 8
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.   Project proposal (September 1993)
2.   Report from the two GTA strategic planning pre-investment workshops
3.   Report from the FNMA pre-investment study
4.   Report from the regional meetings pre-investment activity
5.    Report from the pre-test of forms and manuals
6.   Report from the MIS design pre-investment activity
7.    Operational Manual
8.   Application form and manual
9.    Operating plan for the remainder of 1994
10.  Timetables for monitoring and evaluation activities



Annex 9
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES



DETAILED COSTS
Cost (US$)
Component                                          Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total
1. Small Grants Program                           1,230,859 4,395,926 6,154,296 4,571,763 1,231,670 17,584,514
SUB-TOTAL--Small Grants Program                   1,230,859 4,395,926 6,154,296 4,571,763 1,231,670 17,584,514
2. Technical Assistance for the Technical Secretariat
2.1 Long-term consultants                           152,400   176,400  176,400  110,400  110,400   726,000
2.2 Travel                                           25,600   32,000   32,000   19,200   19,200   128,000
2.3 Miscellaneous services                           11,600    11,600   11,600   11,600   11,600    58,000
2.4 Office supplies                                   7,200    9,600    9,600    7,200    7,200    40,800
2.5 Equipment                                         4,000        0        0         0        0     4,000
2.6 Publications                                      1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500      7,500
2.7 Computer hardware and software                   47,250        0        0        0         0    47,250
2.8 GAPEP                                            61,750   104,500   42,750    9,500    4,750   223,250
2.9 GAP                                              26,730   35,640   26,730        0         0    89,100
2.10 Other consultants                               10,000   25,000   30,000   25,000   10,000   100,000
2.11 Executive Committee                             17,200    17,200   17,200        0        0    51,600
2.12 Publicity                                       10,000    10,000   10,000       0         0    30,000
2.13 Training                                       264,741   142,241   47,540       0         0   454,522    v
2.14 Evaluation of sub-projects                      10,000   25,000   30,000   25,000   10,000   100,000
2.15 Dissemination
2.15.1 Study of existing experiences                 60,000        0        0        0         0    60,000
2.15.2 Bulletin                                       3,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    19,000
2.15.3 Production of materials                       75,000    75,000   75,000   75,000   75,000   375,000
2.15.4 Production of videos                              0   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   120,000
2.15.5 Radio programs                               100,000   100,000  100,000  100,000  100,000   500,000
2.15.6 Support for information exchange meetings     13,800    13,800   13,800   13,800   13,800    69,000
2.15.7 Workshops                                     28,100    56,200   56,200   56,200   56,200   252,900
Administration fee for technical assistance (UNDP--3%)  27,896   26,090   21,430   14,652   13,610   103,678
SUB-TOTAL--Technical Assistance                     957,767  895,771   735,750  503,052  467,260 3,559,600
3. NGO Network Strengthening
3.1 GTA                                             271,495  202,158  126,347        0         0   600,000
3.2 CMA                                              31,680   31,680   31,680        0         0    95,040
SUB-TOTAL-NGO Network Strengthening                 303,175  233,838  158,027        0         0   695,040
1>
Administration fee (Bank of Brazil--1.65%) and auditing  47,650    88,796  108,968   80,864   34,567   360,846 
TOTAL                                             2,539,451 5,614,331 7,157,041 5,155,679 1,733,497 22,200,000   i
_ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _          k O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



56                                  Annex 9
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
ANNUAL COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
COST (US$)
Expenditure category     1994       1995      1996       1997      1998       Total
1. Sub-project contracts  1,230,844  4,395,926  6,154,296  4,571,763  1,231,670 17,584,499
2. Consultants         321,518   347,580   293,217   145,400   124,900  1,232,615
3. Travel              255,903   233,351    173,986    43,700    29,450   736,390
4. Training            264,741    142,241    47,540          0         0   454,523
5. Equipment            78,400    20,216     12,635         0          0   111,250
6. Materials and supplies    22,775    21,708  17,917    7,200     7,200    76,800
7. Miscellaneous services   289,724   338,424   327,052   292,100   292,100  1,539,400
8. Administrative fees  75,546   114,886   130,398    95,516    48,177   464,523
TOTAL                 2,539,451  5,614,332  7,157,041  5,155,679  1,733,497 22,200,000



I1RO 25521
iVENE        ELA           o               (FRENCH
i            =                 /S SU RINAME G  IANAt                                  BRAZIL
C O LO M B I Ar                     BooVio.S   $                 /                       PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE
-     ROR               AMAPA                               THE BRAZILIAN  RAIN  FOREST
N                            -                              x  '.w \  r )  >.r  d DEMONSTRATION  PROJECTS,
>~~                     ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I @         A Nv r /
A               Z              , P R                           ARtANTMARANHAIC
G. 2                           O'C -(.--1CEAR4  DO NORTE
MARANH~~~RO RAD
AU ~ ~ ~ \UGA
t- z;n } - z .- / 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERNAMBCO /af
/ Velrio ,~~~~~~~. i, ?  oX<
PND A ET c Ro U        M   A  T  O                         5      B '.   A  H,    A      SRI PE
OCANNMATO GROSS                   INAS   GERAS               -
Al T  0           N.                         d S
I   Edt                 f                      .          o Si    C;:.w',  \.i;CrrBne *EIlo   ,'ESP)R1TO SANTO,
:PARAGUA /   R 0                                   .  I C wo
. t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                      .                                                                otdi.\{RGAY  &4 - ,6' . dTXi
L  - :  b \   '    '   50-           '         '                       i*^r 199A
BRAZIl.  ARGENTI~~~~~NA                                                            G   0A~~~4AW1rRAS'.
B 0  L I V I7R10 AA                      G.E O',U o
is   Tb.. bo.,,d,,...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-fl.0
AMgRICA./,~~~~~~~    ~ ~     "MTO   ROSO                       U-bMI-NA  GortRAle  '
F.'f                       C-po G,o,de                               /ESPIRITO S~~~~~~~ANTO-6
DO SUL                                t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C   I A0l    URURA                                     U AY                                    3o'lbD BOEIO.M. oV900DoS  EU.0...70



