                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                                    Report No: 31033

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (TF-26659 TF-26655)

                                                ON A

                                               GRANT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                               BRAZIL

                                                FOR A

                                   RF Demonstration Projects - PDA




                                          September 20, 2004




This ICR was prepared based on the findings of project analyzes prepared by the client and
monitoring data available, as well as various contributions from the Implementation Agency and the
project partners. The ICR was prepared by Werner Kornexl (LCSES) and Christoph Diewald
(consultant).

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                                    Currency Unit = Real R$ at completion
                                                         Cruzeiro (CR$) at appraisal
                                        Cr$306.69 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 0.0036 = Cr$1.00
                               Rate at completion R$ 3.00 = US$ 1.00
                                          FISCAL YEAR


                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ABC - Agência Brasileira de Cooperação, Ministério das Relações Exteriores
       Brazilian Agency of Cooperation, External Affairs Ministry

AMA - Unidade de Apoio ao Monitoramento e Análises de Projetos (PPG7)
       Monitoring and Analysis (PPG7)

APA - Área de Proteção Ambiental
       Environmental Protected Area

BASA - Banco da Amazônia S/A
       Amazon Bank

BB - Banco do Brasil
       Bank of Brazil

BIRD - Banco Internacional de Reconstrução e Desenvolvimento
       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

CE - Comissões Executivas do PDA e do PDPI (conforme contexto)
       Executive Commissions of PDA

DED - Deutscher Entwicklungsdienst (Serviço Alemão de Cooperação Técnica e Social)
       Germany Service of Technical and Social Cooperation

FNMA - Fundo Nacional para o Meio Ambiente
       Environmental National Fund

FUNAI - Fundação Nacional do Índio, Ministério da Justiça
       National Indian Foundation

FUNBIO - Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade
       Brazilian Biodiversity Fund

GAP - Grupo de Análise de Subprojetos (no âmbito do PDA e PDPI)
       Subprojects Analysis Group (PDA and PDPI)

GAPEP - Grupo de Apoio à Preparação e Execução de Projetos (no âmbito do PDA e PDPI)
       Supporting Group to the Preparation and Execution of Projects PDA and PDPI)

GEF - Fundo Mundial para o Meio Ambiente, Nações Unidas
       Global Environmental Facility

GTA - Grupo de Trabalho da Amazônia (Rede de ONGs)
       Amazon Working Group (NGOs Network)

GTZ - Agência Alemã de Cooperação Técnica (Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenar-beit GmbH)
       German Technical Cooperation

G7 - Grupo dos 7 (países mais ricos do mundo)
       Group of Seven

IBAMA - Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis
       Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources

KfW - Agência Alemã de Cooperação Financeira (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau)
       German Development Bank

MMA - Ministério do Meio Ambiente
       Ministry of Environment

MRE - Ministério das Relações Exteriores
       Ministry of External Affairs

ONG - Organização Não-Governamental
       Non-governmental organization

OSCIP - Organização da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Público
       Civil Society Organization of Public Interest

PDA - Projetos Demonstrativos (subprograma do PPG7)
       Demonstration Projects (PPG7)

PDPI - Projetos Demonstrativos dos Povos Indígenas (parte do PDA)
       Demonstration Projects of the Indigenous People (part of the PDA)

PGAI - Programa de Gestão Ambiental Integrada (PPG7)
       Integrated Environmental Management Program

PNUD - Programa das Nações Unidas para o Desenvolvimento (UNDP)
       United Nations Development Program

PROAMBIENTE - Programa de Desenvolvimento Sustentável da Produção Familiar Rural da Amazonia
       Sustainable Development Program of the Amazon Rural Familiar Production

PROMANEJO - Projeto de Apoio ao Manejo Florestal Sustentável na Amazônia
       Forest Resources Management Project

PRONAF - Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar
       National Program to Strengthen the Familiar Agriculture

PRORENDA - Programa de Viabilização de Espaços Econômicos para Populações de Baixa Renda

       Promotion of Smallholder Family Agriculture

PROVÁRZEA - Projeto Manejo dos Recursos Naturais da Várzea (PPG7)
       Floodpain Management Project

RESEX - Reserva Extrativista
       Extractive Reserves

RFT - Fundo Fiduciário da Floresta Tropical, Banco Mundial
       Rain Forest Trust Fund, World Bank

RMA - Rede Mata Atlántica
       Network of NGOs for the Atlantic Rain Forest

SAF - Sistema Agro-Florestal
       Agro-Forest System

SCA - Secretaria de Cooperação da Amazônia, MMA
       Amazon Cooperation Secretariat

SPRN - Subprograma de Políticas de Recursos Naturais (PPG7)
       Natural Resources Policy Program - NRPP

ST - Secretaria Técnica do PDA
       Technical Secretariat of PDA

UC - Unidade de Conservação
       Conservation Unit

UE - União Européia
       European Union

UG - Unidade de Gerenciamento
       Management Unit


                                   Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                                 Country Director    Vinod Thomas
                                   Sector Manager    John Redwood
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Werner Kornexl

                                           BRAZIL
                              RF Demonstration Projects - PDA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P006571                                                  Project Name: RF Demonstration Projects - PDA
Team Leader: Werner L. Kornexl                                       TL Unit: LCSRF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: RF Demonstration Projects - PDA                          L/C/TF Number: TF-26659; TF-26655
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (100%)



  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/13/1993                                     Effective: 09/01/1994                04/15/1996
     Appraisal: 11/21/1993                                         MTR: 09/01/1996                  12/01/1999
      Approval: 10/20/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/1998                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Banco do Brasil (Recipient) / MMA/Secretaria da Amazônia (implementing
                                           agency)
                      Other Partners:      GTA, RMA, KfW, GTZ, FFEM

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shavid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Rainer Steckhan
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Werner L. Kornexl                              Robert Kaplan
ICR Primary Author:             Werner L. Kornexl


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Project in its Context:

The project is part of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests (RFPP) and was
one of the first projects appraised within that Program. The "Memorandum of the Director"
(appraisal report) was approved and the Grant Agreement with Banco do Brasil (BB, the
recipient) was signed in 1994.        The latter became effective in early 1995.         Sub-project
implementation began in 1996.

The RFPP was created in 1992 with the support of the G-7 countries, the European Union and
the Netherlands, as a joint program with the Brazilian Government and civil society. Its long-term
goals are to reduce the rate of deforestation and support sustainable development in the Amazon
and Atlantic Rain Forests of Brazil. The RFPP was planned as a set of twelve (mostly pilot)
projects with different lines of action.         These included strengthening state institutions,
environmental management, experimentation with and dissemination of new forms of natural
resource use and conservation, "extractive reserves", indigenous land demarcation and protection,
forest and floodplain resources management, biodiversity conservation, and science and
technology generation and dissemination. It has been implemented by different public sector
agencies with civil society participation under the leadership of the Ministry of Environment
(MMA). The RFPP projects were designed largely independently of each other, but there have
been efforts to integrate them during implementation.

The "Demonstration Projects Type A" (PD/A1 There was to be also a "PD/B", a similar small
grants project aimed at municipal governments rather than at communities and NGOs. This
project was never prepared., hereinafter referred to as "the project") was specifically designed as
the component of the RFPP that would contribute to the trial, adaptation and dissemination of
innovative, promising and sustainable development approaches mainly by community associations
and NGOs, but also by local governments. The rationale for promoting the sustainable use of
natural resources was to reduce pressure on existing forests (i) through the rehabilitation and use
of already-cleared areas, (ii) through the economical and low-impact use of existing forests, or
(iii) by conserving biodiversity in protected areas and elsewhere.

From the very beginning, the participation of civil society, local communities and stakeholders
was a guiding principle of RFPP, although the government was initially reluctant to accept this.
Moreover, most government institutions had little or no experience in working together with such
groups at the time. This was in part due to the failure of earlier investments that didn't manage to
garner sufficient social and political support. Community-based initiatives were considered to be
important for overcoming destructive patterns of natural resource use (deforestation), and for
duly recognizing local traditional forest-related knowledge, but also as a means of building
constituencies for sustainable development.       Strategically, the inclusion of largely excluded
communities was thus an important element for supporting policy changes. In a sense, the project
became the flagship of integrating civil society not only in RFPP, but also in environmental
policy-making in Brazil. Accordingly, the project was prepared with maximum participation from
emerging civil society organizations.

Within the RFPP framework, the project was specifically directed towards the demands and
expectations of civil society and its organizations. It had more participation from civil society in
decision-making and implementation than other RFPP projects. The latter were geared more



                                                 - 2 -

towards governmental or academic "clients", although most of them also benefited from civil
society's considerable participation or even co-management.

Worldwide, there had been few if any experiences of the kind attempted within the project. The
notion of community-driven projects was gaining ground, but mainly with the objective of poverty
reduction or as an alternative means of providing public services. There were few models to learn
from that dealt specifically with natural resource conservation and use2. Since the project was not
designed for poverty reduction per se, poverty targeting was not an issue, although it was
expected that sub-project proponents would represent mostly poorer rural communities3. While at
the time of appraisal there were already donor funds available for such projects in Brazil, there
was still a large demand that remained unmet. The project was meant to fill this gap with a new
funding mechanism as an alternative to the National Environment Fund (FNMA, created in 1989
and still operating). The latter had been deemed too cumbersome in funding civil society
initiatives, mainly because it depends on the federal budget and its funds must adhere to budgetary
and other federal rules and regulations.

The project was to fund initiatives by rural communities, NGOs and municipal governments in the
Amazon and the Atlantic Forest regions. The two regions differ markedly both economically and
socially, as well as in their level of development. The Atlantic Forest is a highly threatened biome
along the Brazilian coast that also extends into the interior across many states. Most of Brazil's
economic activity and population is concentrated in this region. Only some 8% of its original
forest cover still remains. The Amazon (5 million km2 according to the legal Brazilian definition),
which has suffered relatively less devastation so far (about 16% of forest cover), is among the
poorest and most sparsely populated regions of the country.

The name "Demonstration Projects" implies showing successful experiences to others, the
intention being that they would adopt them. This was indeed a key objective of the project's
second component, while the first component was about innovation and experimenting with novel
ways of using and conserving natural resources from the rain forest prior to presenting and
disseminating them.

Forest conservation and management, community participation and the sustainable use of natural
resources were not widely accepted concepts in much of Brazilian society and the public sector in
the early 1990s. Rural communities received scant development assistance mainly for education,
health care, technical support and extension (this still holds true to a great extent). The main
pillars of economic development in the Amazon were large-scale undertakings, such as roads and
hydro-energy, and particularly cattle ranching, without significant environmental and social impact
mitigation. Sustainable resource use was still emerging as a concept.              The capacity of
communities to find their own solutions to sustainable resource use was largely untapped. Some
knowledge and many untested hypotheses about adequate technical and environmental solutions
in both biomes existed, but were rarely used.

Moreover, community-based sub-projects were perceived by some to be running against the
political and economic mainstream. Thus, the project concept was truly groundbreaking, also in a
political sense. The situation has changed significantly since then, as the project has set positive



                                                - 3 -

examples in both regions, consolidating knowledge and practices, building "social capital" and
contributing to an increase in environmental and political awareness.

Civil society organizations were still emerging in 1992, seven years after the end of the military
government's time in power. The environmental NGO community was fragmented and not well
organized during that period, particularly in the Amazon. Through the project, the RFPP
attempted to strengthen civil society networks in both the Amazon and Atlantic Forest regions.
Both networks, the Grupo de Trabalho Amazônico (GTA, Amazon Working Group) and the
Rede Mata Atlântica (RMA, Atlantic Forest Network) were the political and, to a lesser extent,
technical counterparts in the preparation and implementation of the project and the RFPP, in
which they have been playing a very active role since the very beginning.

GTA was first formed in 1991 in response to the RFPP's announcement. It represents a diverse
mix of community-based associations, including "traditional populations" (such as fishermen,
rubber tappers, Brazil nut gatherers, indigenous peoples), rural labor unions and other smallholder
associations, as well as more conservation-oriented NGOs and larger advocacy groups. There is
also a wide variety of objectives and stakeholder interests within GTA and most of the member
organizations have few, if any resources. GTA's objectives have been (i) to build up a network for
the exchange of information and opinions, (ii) to monitor and participate in the process of RFPP
preparation and implementation, (iii) to organize civil society for the discussion on the social and
environmental issues related to Amazon development, (iv) to monitor relevant government
policies, (v) to hold a dialogue with and lobby government, and (vi) to promote mechanisms for
the participation of local populations in development policies. At the time of appraisal, GTA had
already grown to 300 member organizations; now there are over 500.                  The group has
headquarters in Brasilia and offices in 15 regions of the Amazon.

RMA was created in 1992 with the objective of promoting exchanges among member NGOs
working on Atlantic Forest conservation issues, but also to represent civil society in that region in
the RFPP. The number of member organizations grew from ten to eighty at the time of appraisal,
much less than GTA. Today there are some 250 member entities. In RMA, most member NGOs
focus on environmental conservation and rehabilitation, and less so on sustainable development,
although the latter is gaining increasing attention. At the time of appraisal, RMA had no office
infrastructure of its own.

This ICR is based on official Bank and government records, on the Brazil Rain Forest Unit's
institutional memory, experiences of the task manager and government staff, and a number of
evaluation studies. The most important of these are two recent studies of twelve sub-projects in
the Atlantic Forest and twenty sub-projects in the Amazon region (see Annex 7 for references).
Although these studies are based on a non-random sample of sub-projects and are not rigorously
scientific, independent evaluations, they contain a wealth of insights and lessons learned.

Evaluation of Objectives

The project had three stated objectives:




                                                - 4 -

    (i) to stimulate the development, adaptation and dissemination of environmentally,
    economically and socially sustainable systems of natural resource management and
    conservation by local communities through a small grants program;
    (ii) to inform other communities, groups that represent them, researchers, and government
    policy makers about the lessons learned from local sub-projects (dissemination); and
    (iii)to strengthen the capacity of local populations, and to plan and implement activities
    leading to conservation and sustainable development through support to the NGO networks,
    the GTA and RMA.

As reflected in the latest CAS (2003), these objectives are still highly relevant to the Bank and
Brazil today. In fact, the relevance of these objectives and the demand for community-driven
development projects has increased over time. Community-based projects, environmentally and
economically sustainable land use, and learning and dissemination of best practices have become
part of the Government of Brazil's (GOB's) strategy to combat increasing deforestation rates.
Today, both GOB and the Bank are seeking ways to mainstream successful pilot experiences on a
larger scale.

The objectives (which were formulated in different ways throughout the appraisal report) covered
most elements of an innovative, first-of-a-kind pilot operation, such as testing, capacity building
and dissemination. However, the treatment of evaluations and lessons learned in the objectives - a
critical step before adapting models and mainstreaming for general use - was vague. While
recognizing the importance of testing, adaptation, monitoring and evaluation, the objectives jump
from experimentation almost directly to dissemination, without first requiring solid answers to the
questions "what works where, and under what circumstances?". This had consequences on
implementation.

The true intent of the third objective, which aims at community-level capacity building, is not
entirely consistent with the way it was originally stated.        While it implies that the primary
beneficiaries of capacity building would be the communities that carry out sub-projects, the intent
was actually to provide support to the NGO networks as such, as a principal objective, not only as
a means of capacity building in communities. Strengthening networks as an instrument to
publicize the project and providing technical assistance to potential and actual proponents were no
doubt legitimate efforts. However, the actual intent for Amazon NGOs "to act effectively and in
a coordinated fashion on environmental matters" should have become a separate objective, or
even a distinct project (as was done during recent years for both networks under the RFPP).
Also, this third objective already defined the main channel of capacity building (the networks),
thus virtually excluding other alternatives. The assumption that the networks could provide truly
"technical" assistance was unrealistic, as they had little capacity to fulfill this task. Both networks
contributed, however, to the preparation and implementation of the project, which had two other
mechanisms for providing TA to communities (GAP and GAPEP, as discussed below).

The five-year project implementation period was too short to achieve the intended objectives.
The choice of five years is most likely due to both Bank and donor practice, which rarely permits
longer project periods at the design stage, as well as the short time horizon of the RFPP itself
(originally planned for just three years). Sub-projects were limited to three years at most (unless a



                                                 - 5 -

second grant was awarded). This is considered insufficient for testing and developing innovative
practices with the complex social, entrepreneurial and agronomic processes that exist within
communities. After adding the minimum amount of time for preparation, selection and approval,
there was little left to analyze the results of the sub-project and lessons learned, and to
disseminate them adequately for other sub-projects to use. Not surprisingly, the project was
extended twice, in 1999 and 2002.

1
There was to be also a "PD/B", a similar small grants project aimed at municipal governments rather than at communities and
NGOs. This project was never prepared.
2
The social investment funds (such as FONAMA in Bolivia, FONCODES in Peru, and the Rural Poverty Reduction Projects in
 the Brazilian Northeast) had no specific natural resource management dimensions, and had largely limited community
 choices from a selection of pre-designed investment models.

3
 The word "community" is admittedly only vaguely defined. It may be taken here as group of usually poor families in a
particular rural area, confronted with similar problems and with a minimum of common concerns, cohesion and willingness to
participate in an organized way. Proposals were accepted only from legally established associations or from a formal NGO
(which may represent a community).

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A

3.3 Original Components:



Development, adaptation and dissemination of environmentally, economically
and socially sustainable systems of natural resource management and
conservation by local communities


Well-designed for the most part, this component introduced a number of innovations that have
contributed to the project's success. Particularly noteworthy is the acceptance of a "bottom-up"
approach to natural resource management, i.e., the definition and adoption of models by
communities, rather than the selection and execution of models that were pre-defined "at the top".
Proponents were to receive grants of up to $210,000 for sub-projects of 1-3 years.

The project introduced appropriate eligibility criteria for proposals and proponents, which were
largely applied (witnessed by the fact that less than 20% of the proposals received were actually
approved). For instance, the rules excluded associations formed only for the purpose of making a
proposal ­ they had to exist for at least one year prior to that. Proposals also had to address a set
of predefined "themes". In addition, there were detailed criteria for environmental sustainability.
The project required counterpart contributions from the beneficiaries, ranging between 10% and
30%.

Sub-project screening included a formal and a technical filter before a proposal was presented to
the Executive Commission. The project's Technical Secretariat (ST) screened sub-projects for
eligibility and requested clarifications and adjustments from the proponents. Thereafter, two
parallel, independent technical reviews of the proposals were solicited for each sub-project from
consultants selected from a predefined roster (GAP) before they were sent to the Executive


                                                             - 6 -

Commission for approval. In cases where a proposal was considered worthwhile but weak,
consultants from a predefined technical assistance roster (GAPEP) were called to visit and assist
the proponents in improving their proposals.

A particular merit of the project design was the effective sub-project selection and funding
mechanism:

    · The project has been coordinated by a Technical Secretariat (ST) in the Ministry of
    Environment (MMA), not by the Grant Recipient (Banco do Brasil, BB).
    · An Executive Commission, consisting of an equal number of civil society and government
    representatives, meets periodically to set overall guidelines for the project and to approve
    sub-projects for funding.
    · Two rosters of consultants, GAP and GAPEP provide assistance to the ST or to
    proponents in analyzing or reformulating proposals, and GAPEP also provides backstopping
    for projects under implementation.
    · The NGO networks help publicize the grants program among their member groups,
    provide training in proposal preparation and technical assistance to communities, and assist in
    disseminating lessons learned.
    · The Banco do Brasil (BB), as the recipient and manager of the funds, receives donor
    grants, enters into (civil law) contracts with associations (grantees) after approval of
    sub-projects, and makes disbursements to grantees when requested by the ST. Thus, grant
    funds did not go through the federal budget. This resulted in faster, more timely disbursements
    to beneficiaries and simpler procurement rules, and thus in better planning and
    implementation. Banco do Brasil, a large public commercial bank, has the widest network of
    agencies in Brazil and the capillarity needed to reach communities all over the country, even in
    remote areas (although it has never been truly geared towards serving communities).
    · UNDP, under an agreement with BB, contracted staff and consulting services for the ST,
    GAP and GAPEP, and was used also as a mechanism for training, evaluation and
    dissemination services.


Civil society's participation in the project preparation and decision-making process was a main
pillar of the design. "Sponsoring" NGOs often represented the implementing communities as
sub-project proponents and were officially in charge of sub-project implementation and
accounting for sub-grants. In some cases, community associations made proposals themselves,
without an NGO intermediary. In other cases, there were NGOs proposing their own projects,
without a community involved. Although municipal governments were eligible to propose
projects, there was little demand from that side, mainly because the project was not really
publicized to them.

Many features of this funding and approval mechanism were replicated by other projects within
the RFPP (PROVÁRZEA, PROMANEJO)4, while the mechanism was being considered by other
government agencies, although FNMA continues to practice a more traditional, "governmental"
approach.




                                                 - 7 -

There were, however, also some design shortcomings. For example, it did not include mandatory
in loco appraisal of all sub-projects before approval, which would have increased costs but also
provided better information than desk reviews. Approval was instead based only on the proposals
submitted and on specific information from network or government representatives in the
Executive Commission about a community's situation and capacity. Routine technical assistance
(TA) for sub-project design and formulation (through GAPEP or otherwise) should have been the
rule in a two-stage selection process, where pre-qualified proposals would have received TA for
preparing the final proposal. Overall, we conclude that there were inadequate resources allocated
to TA, particularly for the vast Amazon region with its remote sub-project locations. This was
apparently due to the Bank's and the donors' desire to contain project costs and to channel a
maximum of funds directly to final beneficiaries.

The ceiling for sub-project grants (US$ 210,000) was too high to handle for groups that had
never administered any such grants. The Bank and donors may have succumbed to NGO network
pressure on that score. The denomination of the ceiling and of sub-grants in dollars went against
GOB's macro-economic policy under the "Plano Real" of 1994 to eliminate indexing, and may
have reduced incentives for the economic use of resources and sustainability. Dollar-denominated
grants had been meant to shield against traditional hyperinflation. The "Plano Real" indeed
introduced reasonable currency stability and could have offered the opportunity to set a limit in
the national currency (possibly with some protection against inflationary price increases), but
during negotiations there was still some skepticism as to the success of the Real Plan, after the
failure of earlier such plans. The limit was reduced only in 2001 to R$300,000 (today about
US$110,000), after a significant devaluation of the Real in 1999, and contracts were then drawn
up in the local currency.

Funding of working capital for sub-projects with productive and marketing objectives was not
allowed. At the time of appraisal, it was assumed that this should be provided by the public credit
system, but there was insufficient appreciation of the difficulties of first-of-a kind, high-risk
community-based projects to access credit. Lack of working capital became a frequent bottleneck
for processing and marketing by associations and cooperatives without access to credit sources
when it came to paying suppliers (community members) for the raw materials delivered5. Since
access to credit is an important element of sustainability, we conclude that grant financing of
working capital should either have been allowed from the beginning (with rules for revolving
funds and safeguards for the gradual capitalization of community enterprises), or that a
mechanism for access to public-sector credit should have been built into the project design.
Otherwise, the project should not have approved sub-project proposals that required working
capital to be financially viable6.

The project did not require a "business plan" or any kind of economic planning exercise from
proponents of productive sub-projects, which would have been essential for obtaining credit, if
not at the beginning, then at least after a startup phase. It is doubtful whether the kinds of
initiatives proposed should have required full-fledged business plans, although TA could have
used customary elements of a business plan to discuss a sub-project's feasibility with the
proponents before approval.




                                               - 8 -

4
The general project idea was also adopted by the then ongoing, Bank-financed PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO projects, as
 part of their mid-term reformulation in 1995/96.

5
In sub-projects funded by Germany, some working capital was made available from grants as an "initial investment in a stock
of merchandise".
6
Other programs funded by MMA (such as the Agro-Extractive Program) provided, at least initially, for funding of
working capital, but they seem to show that this can also be problematic, if working capital is not appropriately
managed and recovered for the following year's purchase of raw material. MMA ceased to allow funding of
working capital, but the issue persists.



Informing other communities, groups that represent them, researchers, and
government policy-makers of the lessons learned from the local-level projects


This component, which was also to include the evaluation of sub-project results, was not
adequately designed. There was no provision for a mechanism that would produce quality
material for dissemination-proven models and lessons learned.

The evaluation of sub-project experiences was foreseen, to some extent, in the Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) Plan attached to the appraisal report, but its objective was more to monitor
implementation and project performance than to analyze what worked, what didn't, where and for
what reason. The M&E Plan contained the elements and indicators of traditional project
monitoring and supervision, financially and technically, and provided for the hiring of consultants
to conduct evaluation studies. It required that all sub-projects define their own indicators, collect
data and report on progress. It did not define a minimum set of common indicators to be
measured by all sub-projects internally and did not require the collection of baseline data. Such
indicators and data, while certainly increasing costs, would have been necessary for conducting
more quantitative analyses and evaluations.

Moreover, resources allocated to the evaluation and learning tasks were inadequate (but were
later provided, in part, by GTZ). The GAPEP consultants were apparently expected to carry out
such learning-related work. The project called, however, for an early study to identify and assess
experiences from other projects, which were either completed or ongoing at the time, to have
material ready for early dissemination.

The lack of an early definition of the evaluation and learning process led to different expectations.
Donors and GOB expected lessons for the mainstreaming of programs regarding which
procedures, rules, interventions, technologies and projects proved successful. Associations and
NGOs, on the other hand, saw project implementation more as an exercise of community-level
learning-by-doing (which also requires its own indicators). That kind of learning experience was
indeed very rich, judging from the evaluation reports. Both kinds of learning and evaluation are
needed, but should have been foreseen from the beginning.

Dissemination as such was also less than satisfactory. The appraisal report only mentions the
general audiences and vehicles for dissemination, and allocates one staff in the ST to lead this task
(to be carried out by consultants). It did allow, however, for the funding of sub-projects just for


                                                           - 9 -

dissemination purposes.


Strengthening the capacity of local populations to plan and implement activities
leading to conservation and sustainable development through support to the
NGO networks


This component did not do enough for strengthening the capacity of communities to plan and
implement their projects ­ the stated objective ­ and did not provide the necessary tools. TA
should have already been available for preparing proposals and during preparation, not only for
technical or economic matters, but also for the communities' mobilization, discussion of proposals
and internal organization.

The component's actual content was the strengthening of GTA (and to a lesser degree RMA), so
that it could "act effectively and in a coordinated fashion on environmental matters". The
networks were expected to publicize the small grants program and provide some technical
assistance to grantees, especially for proposal writing.     There had been an earlier strategic
planning exercise carried out by GTA with project preparation funds. Support to GTA then
declined over a three-year period, after which it was assumed to have its own funds to carry on.
The component had the clear goal of "creating a strong, independent association adept at
articulating and pursuing the interests of its members at the end of the funding period". In the
case of RMA, which was to receive a fraction of the funds allocated for GTA, only services
geared towards supporting the project (publicity, technical assistance to sub-projects and
dissemination of results) were expected.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Before project start-up, a well-prepared Project Manual, including forms for sub-project
proposals, had already been approved by the Bank. This manual set down the rules and
procedures, although it was changed several times later on, and established a benchmark to be
emulated by similar projects in the RFPP.

Quality at entry was substantially enhanced by the very active participation of organized civil
society, leading to full ownership on the beneficiary side. This was an unusual feature at the time,
certainly among most Bank-funded projects in Brazil.

There were, however, some operational gaps in project readiness. At start-up, Banco do Brasil,
ST, the Bank and KfW still needed time to agree on the standard contracts with the beneficiary
associations. The project partners (BB financially and the ST technically) were not fully prepared
to take on the project. BB was not entirely willing to take over its role in the project and
gradually passed on the responsibility of scrutinizing sub-project expenditures and other tasks to



                                               - 10 -

the ST. While BB first played an active role in disbursement and accounting, it gradually shrunk
to a mere financial intermediary with few responsibilities7. This attitude is related to readiness for
implementation, but not to quality at entry.This transfer of responsibilities increased the workload
of ST even more.

7
 Surprisingly, BB questioned, after grant effectiveness, a standard provision of the grant agreement that allowed
the Bank to ask BB for recovery of funds used for ineligible purposes. BB argued that, considering the agreed fee
it was to receive on disbursement transactions (1.65%), it would not be in a position to cover such liabilities. The
issue was settled in 1996 by means of a letter of comfort from the Bank assuring BB that it would first consult with
it in case of alleged misuse before taking any action. This attitude is related to readiness for implementation, but
not to quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Component 1: Stimulating the development and adaptation of the dissemination
of environmentally, economically and socially sustainable systems of natural
resource management and conservation by local communities


The project did not pursue a stated target in terms of the number of sub-projects funded. Out of
the 1,047 proposals submitted to the ST, a total of 147 projects were actually implemented in the
Amazon, and 47 in the Atlantic Forest ecosystem. (Only 19% of all proposals submitted received
financing). Over half (659) of the proposals received were rejected as they did not meet the
necessary criteria; 58 others were not recommended for funding by the GAP; 130 were not
approved by the Executive Commission or the ST; and six grants were cancelled after approval.

About 14% of the proposals sent to the Executive Commission by ST between 1995 and 2001
were evaluated as interesting but technically weak. In these cases, consultants from the GAPEP
roster were asked to assist the proponents in revising their proposal. Out of 40 re-evaluated
projects, only 19 were eventually approved by the Commission. By April 2004, 170 sub-projects
had been concluded, and 24 are still being implemented (financed by KfW and the French Fund
for the Global Environment, FFEM). All projects financed by the European Commission were
fully implemented by the closing date (Dec. 31, 2003)8.

The large percentage of rejections (81%) may be a reflection of the lack of technical assistance to
proposing communities and NGOs and of the hasty preparation of proposals in order to respond
swiftly to the opportunity of receiving a grant. This warrants further study.

In terms of size, 89% of grant resources were assigned to large sub-grants (mostly up to the
ceiling of $210,000), 8% to medium-sized ones and 3% to small ones. The high sub-grant ceiling
reduced the number of grants that could be funded. Staggering ceilings in accordance with
demonstrated prior experience with grants may have led to better size distribution and avoided the
temptation "to go for the maximum". Smaller sub-projects appear to have been able to improve
their social organization at least as well as the large ones, and thus may have been more efficient.



                                                        - 11 -

Almost half (47%) of the sub-projects focused on agroforestry systems (SAFs), and many of the
others had SAF sub-components. These had become somewhat of a trend in forest conservation
and rehabilitation of degraded areas in the 1990s. In many cases, they may have been imposed on
communities by outside proponents without due regard for local conditions and farmers' interests.
Their rate of success was not overwhelming.            Almost a third (30%) of the sub-projects
concentrated on forest management for the extraction of non-timber products (although there
were also a few cases of management for timber), with the intent of increasing the economic value
of standing forests through the collection of seeds, rubber, Brazil nuts, oils, medicinal plants and
fruits being more frequent than management for timber. In some cases, these products were also
processed by communities for value-added.

The majority of grant beneficiaries were community associations and cooperatives, followed by
NGOs and rural labor unions. In the Atlantic Forest, most of the beneficiaries were NGOs,
whereas in the Amazon most were smallholder organizations. Sub-projects in the Amazon had
more "productive" objectives, while in the Atlantic Forest environmental and conservation
objectives dominated, at least initially. However, environmental NGOs in that biome became
increasingly aware of the need to implement alternative sources of income generation to
strengthen community support for conservation activities.

Economic efficiency and sustainability were initially evaluated as the sub-projects' weakest
aspects. Nevertheless, according to the latest evaluations, beneficiary producers did effectively
benefit economically from adopting new land-use practices, by diversifying the production system,
reducing inputs, promoting a shift to perennial crops, reducing or controlling the use of fire and
making gainful use of the standing forest. Impacts on cash income and increased consumption of
subsistence crops were rather modest (5-15%). Many projects were able to increase benefits
through economies of scale and increased professionalism. Although not always quantified in the
producers' self-evaluations and in reports, the reduction of expenditures on agrochemicals and
other inputs, the diversification of farm production, the increase in crop yields, more rational use
of natural resources and the reduction of work time were seen as the most important gains from
agroforestry. Wherever raw materials were processed (e.g., fruit pulp, Brazil nuts), economic
success was often hampered by inadequate planning and management capacity, compounded by a
lack of experience in marketing and knowledge of markets. The complexity of such economic
processes was underestimated by the communities that had very few entrepreneurial abilities.
Nevertheless, with continued support from other donors and regional institutions, most cases
should achieve economic sustainability over the coming years.

The expectations of project proponents in terms of economic gains over a three-year period were
unrealistic for the most part. This is not surprising, given the lack of prior experience and prudent
technical assistance. For example, it normally takes well over three years for agroforestry systems
to provide substantive gains. An evaluation right after the closing of a sub-project may often
suggest poor sustainability, but later field visits frequently indicate a better picture as a result of
internal learning and adaptation processes.

In environmental terms, the Atlantic Forest sub-projects demonstrated especially positive impacts,
not only by restoring native forests or implementing SAFs and other improved natural resource



                                                 - 12 -

management systems, but also by ensuring a broader debate on NRM issues in the sub-project
regions and a change of attitudes. The integration of environmental-awareness campaigns,
capacity building and environmental education, linked to the economic and social needs of the
beneficiaries, were seen as most effective, while isolated activities rarely led to a change of habits.


There were very few cases where there was a complete loss of investments and a failure to reach
development objectives. In the technical evaluations carried out thus far, only about 6% of the
sub-projects were classified as total losses, where neither technical nor organizational
strengthening goals were reached. Although there are many more sub-projects needing follow up,
this ratio is surprisingly low for a pilot project.

Cases of misuse of funds for ineligible purposes were registered in less than 2% of the
sub-projects. Where irregularities were noted, disbursement to the grantee was suspended, and in
some cases restructuring of the sub-project was attempted. Where problems persisted,
sub-projects were cancelled and the occurrences were registered officially, as required by the
agreement with BB. MMA declared that the amounts in question will be included in the "Active
Debt of the Union" (i.e., without onus to BB), to be recovered and returned to the respective
donor (KfW or EC).

8
There was no funding from the Rain Forest Trust Fund (administered by the Bank) for sub-projects. EC funds
 were held in trust by the Bank and were used exclusively for sub-projects.




Component 2: Informing other communities, groups that represent them,
researchers, and government policy-makers of the lessons learned from the
local-level projects


As mentioned earlier, the design of this component jumped too quickly from experimental practice
to dissemination. Good results were achieved nevertheless, even in the absence of a clear strategy
on what to disseminate, to whom and how, and given the lack of a more systematic project-level
learning mechanism. An early evaluation of experiences from other projects, as mentioned in the
appraisal report and scheduled for the first year, was not carried out. A first in-depth evaluation
of six sub-projects was conducted by FAO/CP in 1999, and a more comprehensive evaluation of
the first 28 sub-project experiences was done in 2000. After 2000, with no new proposals to
screen, the ST had more human resources free to focus on analytical work and learning lessons.
Accordingly, more intensive monitoring and systematic learning took off only in 2001, after
available funds for sub-grants had been committed. The Bank insisted strongly on this aspect of
the project and valuable assistance was made available from GTZ. The final evaluation studies in
the Atlantic Forest and the Amazon were conducted in 2002 and 2003, respectively, with a shared
and consistent methodology, including common indicators permitting some quantitative analyses.

These recent evaluation studies eventually produced extraordinarily rich material in terms of
lessons learned. They are based on the interaction between evaluators and communities and their



                                                     - 13 -

leaders in 32 of the 194 projects, which also brought out the lessons drawn by the
beneficiaries-actors themselves. They are also based on the conclusions that resulted from the
team's comparison of approaches and outcomes from these (and other) sub-projects.                  The
material produced is highly useful, even if quantitative data suitable for more rigorous analysis
were not available. It should therefore be the basis for additional, in-depth studies, which might
then also cover a broader selection of sub-projects. This result came somewhat late in the project
process and still needs to be more widely disseminated and absorbed by both project management
and proponents of new sub-projects, but it represents a satisfactory output of the component.

Learning at the sub-project level could have been complemented by more analytical work based
on a minimum of comparable baseline data and common monitoring indicators for most if not all
sub-projects. This would strengthen the overall credibility of the lessons and provide an
additional, well-founded basis in support of mainstreaming. The methodological approaches used,
interactive evaluations in the field and the analysis of a common set of data, are all valid and
should be applied in parallel.

In addition, many visits to participating and non-participating communities were organized during
project implementation.     Such visits were highly effective as eye-openers and for practical
demonstrations. Through them, substantial learning and dissemination took place locally, in the
sub-project area, in neighboring areas and even farther away, leading other communities to take
note of and adopt what was being demonstrated. The dissemination of experiences and adoption
by surrounding communities (which needs to be more thoroughly corroborated) are positive
indicators of the impact of project demonstration.

Several regional and local seminars were organized by the ST, but many more were conducted by
the sub-project proponents themselves with project funds. Numerous other interactions took place
without ST intervention.

Several local, regional and even national policy initiatives can be directly or indirectly attributed to
the project and to active civil society participation. One of these is the PROAMBIENTE
proposal. This is an innovative program to provide credit to farmers implementing sustainable
production models, under which there is a rebate of interest payments to recognize
"environmental services" provided by them, and the difference is funded from grant sources. The
policies chosen by MMA for promoting conservation in the Atlantic Forests also reflect this
initiative. Many ideas, innovations, concepts and approaches were adopted and also followed up
by research bodies in the Amazon. In several cases, municipal governments and local institutions
were influenced by novel projects in their jurisdiction. However, state governments have been less
supportive. Partnerships with municipal governments were rare at the beginning of the project,
but have increased over time. Sub-project performance was greatly enhanced wherever these
partnerships have been maintained. (In some cases, however, reliance on partnerships with local
or state governments led to disappointments, especially following changes in power in a
municipality or state after an election.)

In a successful experiment implemented in 2003, communities were trained to self-evaluate their
experiences, problems and achievements. The results of such evaluations sometimes turned out to



                                                - 14 -

be quite different from external ones, and yielded rich input for the discussion on how to best
work with community-based projects. Self-evaluation turned out to be an essential instrument
substituting for reliable baseline and monitoring data, and has now been adopted as a standard
methodology for the second phase.

The project produced various materials of satisfactory technical quality for dissemination: a
newsletter, brochures and videos on sub-projects. While these were useful for awareness-raising
by providing examples of actual experiences, they were rarely based on thorough analyses.
Improved communication and dissemination strategies are part of the project's second phase
(2004-2006).

Continuous, thorough monitoring of the sub-projects would have been essential, but the M&E
Plan defined at appraisal was only very partially implemented. During the first years, the ST had
to concentrate most of its resources on the screening and approval of sub-projects. The project
did not implement a management information system with financial and technical information on
all sub-projects. The enormous diversity, geographical dispersion of sub-projects and often lack of
accessibility made it hard to establish a working M&E system. Nevertheless, the ST made some
250 monitoring field visits to ongoing sub-projects between 1996 and 2003, initially concentrating
more on financial and administrative capacity building. Later, field visits also included staff for
technical monitoring. Most sub-projects were visited only once, due to insufficient staff and
financial resources. Given the low ST staff rotation, many data were still available for final
evaluations even in the absence of a structured system and on an informal basis.

In 2001/02, designs began for a "second phase" (in which the Bank would not participate
anymore as trustee). At that time, a more systematic learning process was still going on. Thus,
not all potential lessons have yet been integrated into the design of the second phase.


Component 3: Strengthening the capacity of local populations to plan and
implement activities leading to conservation and sustainable development,
through support to the NGO networks            9




As in the case of Component 2, the design of this component was not sufficient to achieve what
was intended: making communities, associations and cooperatives stronger in terms of
organization, production, marketing and representation of their interests and demands. Somewhat
surprisingly, the organizational strengthening of communities was in most cases one of the most
important and visible impacts of the project, as was increased environmental awareness and
technical capacity. Significant improvements in management, social organization, the role of
women and political representation were found in more than 90% of the sub-projects evaluated.
Communities generally advanced in terms of their ability to deal with the outside world, their
bargaining power, self esteem and technical, administrative and even political skills, even where
external help was absent or inadequate.

The project organized several early administrative capacity-building events involving almost 2,000



                                                - 15 -

producers. This was a key factor for successful financial management. Although financial
reporting and procurement were a great challenge for the beneficiary associations, surprisingly
few mistakes were made. Some 400 other capacity-building seminars were organized by the
project, involving beneficiaries and other stakeholders. Almost half of these events focused on the
implementation of agroforestry systems and a quarter on economic issues such as processing,
marketing and management.

The participatory approach was clearly taken seriously under the project. Without strong
community involvement in planning and especially implementation, and without improvements in
social organization, the sustainability of activities suffered after a sub-project grant was "closed".
On the other hand, with ownership and stronger organization, sub-projects developed further,
often even without further grant support.

Despite the encouraging outcome, technical assistance to sub-projects, beyond training in financial
and procurement management, could have been planned and organized better, and many of the
communities' errors and omissions could have been avoided. Leaving capacity building to the
NGO networks was not an adequate solution. While the networks themselves got stronger (see
below), they were not sufficiently effective as such to provide or organize the technical support
for individual sub-projects under this component. Few NGOs in the networks had the technical
capacity and knowledge to provide such assistance. This was not properly evaluated at the time,
although an objective assessment may have been difficult where the capacity of the major actors
involved in the preparation was concerned. Indeed, few institutions in the country were equipped
at the project's start-up to help with innovative uses of natural resources from the rain forests
(particularly in the Amazon). These were mainly research institutes with too few staff to work
with too many communities. The comparative advantage of organized civil society in mobilizing
communities and assisting with their organization and project formulation was, however, clearly
confirmed. Government teams simply could not have achieved as much as the NGOs did.

In the case of sub-projects in the Atlantic Forest, more technical support was provided by the
networks and their associate NGOs there than in the Amazon region. NGOs in the South and
Southeast of Brazil have better technical capacity to assist with sub-project implementation and
have more direct contact with beneficiaries than those in the Amazon. The lack of qualified TA
was one of the project's most serious problems, and it is surprising that overall satisfactory results
were still achieved under these constraints. Sub-projects managed to build up their own expertise
and professional knowledge over time to some extent, without relying on competent TA. Today,
some of the leaders and staff of sub-projects are considered and sought after as technical
references.

The true focus of the third component was, however, the strengthening of the regional NGO
networks. This support lasted only a few years (1996-99), and was later followed by other grants
from the Rain Forest Trust Fund directly to the networks, outside the PD/A project. Both GTA
and RMA benefited from the grants they received under the project and managed to insert
themselves more effectively into the political processes. They produced newsletters and other
publications, held periodic assemblies and worked to channel information and opinions down to
their member organizations and, to a lesser degree, from those organizations up to network



                                                 - 16 -

leaders. The Atlantic Forest Network opened an office in Brasilia with project funds to monitor
and intervene in political processes related to Atlantic Forest conservation in the Brazilian
Congress and Government. Funds for the Amazon Working Group (GTA) were mainly used for
maintaining regional offices and for periodic meetings of its now more than 500 affiliated entities.


GTA appears to have been less effective as a network and a unified voice on general development
issues in the Amazon in the political process than RMA. This may be due to the fact that the
stronger, well organized, more professional (and "urban") of its member organizations (such as
ISA, Friends of the Earth, WWF, IPAM and IMAZON), perform analytical, advocacy and
lobbying functions with considerable skill and impact on policies, with or without GTA. The
latter had, however, substantial influence on the MMA, to such an extent that several individuals
belonging to the network took over functions in the Ministry for a while.

Civil society's influence, participation and decision-making power within the RFPP have clearly
increased over time. This is largely, but not only, due to this project. At the same time, the
government's receptivity towards civil society as a partner has also increased, leading to a much
different governmental "culture" today than in the early nineties, at least as far as environmental
policies are concerned.

There were some particular challenges for the networks in assuming their role in the RFPP and in
the project:

    w GTA had to reconcile its dual roles as advocacy group and support organization in the
    RFPP. The tension between autonomy and collaboration has marked GTA's existence and
    has occasionally led to charges of "disloyalty" on the part of government and donors, or of
    being too close to government and donors on the part of member organizations. Overall,
    however, GTA was not shy about speaking out and criticizing both government and donors.
    The need to play a mediating role, to cajole member organizations to perform under
    sub-projects, and to shoulder the pressures and frustration "from below" were novel
    experiences for the group. These had previously only been undergone by government.
    w Working with government, and more so with the Bank and donors, revealed a "culture
    gap", particularly with regard to contractual obligations related to accounting for funds
    imposed on the networks and other grantees, and observance of certain rules. The Bank was
    often perceived and publicly scolded as being overly bureaucratic, even controlling the
    networks at times. These challenges were compounded in 1998, when the management of
    GTA passed from an experienced professional to less experienced leaders from rural
    Amazonian NGOs, and when GTA agreed to plan and carry out a project for the mobilization
    and training of community leaders to prevent and control forest fires. These challenges, and a
    perception of little empathy on the part of the Bank and donors, seemed to have overwhelmed
    GTA's structure to some extent.
    w A third challenge was maintaining inclusiveness and effective representation within GTA,
    with its highly diverse mix of participating groups scattered over the vast Amazon area,
    dealing with different views, expectations, interests, levels of information and distances from
    political centers. This diversity has been both an asset and a strain on GTA. While the project



                                                - 17 -

    helped to interconnect the member organizations, democratic governance and "equitable
    participation among unequal partners" remain a serious challenge. There have been power
    struggles and allegations of concentration of power in the hands of a few regional leaders. An
    external evaluation found that with the growth of GTA since 1992, there was also a "gradual
    reduction in the level of participation in the network", leaving "most of the elected positions at
    the highest levels ... in the hands of a dozen persons", and leading to the "domination of
    regional meetings by a small group of core activists" (Berno de Almeida, op.cit.).
    w Lastly, there were problems with the flow of information, communication and consulting
    between the top of the network and the grassroots level. Meetings between the member
    organizations and the positions to be taken by the network have rarely been prepared from the
    "bottom up" and usually reflect the opinions and positions of the organizations' leaders.


While similar challenges also affected RMA, a much smaller group, they have been mitigated by
less diversity and inequality among its members and by more direct communication.

The networks continue to rely financially on substantial RFPP grants. Expecting self-sufficiency
after only a few years was unrealistic in the Brazilian context, where few NGOs have the capacity
to raise funds from citizens and corporations, and government incentives for tax-deductible
donations are fundamentally lacking.

9
 This analysis draws, in part, on (a) Lisansky, J. and Sprissler, L. "Lessons Learned from the Rain Forest
 Participation in the First Decade of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, World Bank, 2001,
 and (b) on Wagner B. de Almeida, A., "The Growing Pains of an Unprecedented Civil Society ­ Government
 Partnership in the Brazilian Amazon: The Case of the Amazon Working Group (GTA)", in Thinking Out Loud,
 Innovative Case Studies on Participatory Instruments, LCR Civil Society Team (PREM/ESSD), World Bank,
 2001.


4.2 Outputs by components:
N/A

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Given that Banco do Brasil is an agency controlled by the Federal Government, and that the
actual implementing agency (ST) is part of a federal ministry, there should have been few, if any,
factors affecting project implementation that were outside government control. The one factor
that had an impact, the devaluation of the Real, substantially raised the amount of available


                                                       - 18 -

resources for the project. This helped to increase the number of sub-projects funded as well as
the funds available to sub-projects with dollar-denominated contracts, and thus probably delayed
the project's learning and evaluation effort.

Local government changes sometimes caused severe difficulties for the implementing
communities. This was manifested in the abrupt withdrawal of support or even outright
opposition.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Pilot Program projects were implemented quite independently from other government programs
during the first years. After 2000, the interaction between the PD/A project and other
governmental programs increased, and several other government staff members contributed to the
project analysis, which led to a fruitful dialogue. Federal "ownership" of the RFPP and of this
project has increased over time, even if counterpart contributions remained extremely low until
the end of 2003, when the federal government decided to fund project staff and the operation of
the ST.

The rural community's access to credit, particularly for non-traditional agricultural purposes, is
largely also a federal matter. This was not really addressed during the project, with the exception
of a line of financing for agroforestry communities, which was, however, minimally disbursed. A
factor outside federal, but within state government control, was the absence of a suitable
extension service to assist rural communities in their endeavors. State extension agencies are
largely ineffective, limited in transferable knowledge (traditional crops such as rice and beans,
cattle), and certainly not geared towards innovative forms of natural resource use.

New rules were established by the government over the recent years, making the contracting of
consultants through UNDP (e.g., for the GAPEP, a non-bureaucratic and efficient instrument to
provide quick and efficient technical assistance) more difficult.      As a result, the burden of
technical assistance fell to ST staff, who were ill-equipped and had too little time to take on this
duty.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The extraordinary motivation, dedication and effort on the part of project management and its
staff in MMA, their identification with the project objectives and low staff turnover have greatly
contributed to the results, as has the cooperation between the ST and civil society organizations
and the networks.

Factors that had a positive impact at sub-project level include:
    · Good local leadership;
    · Involvement of beneficiaries in sub-project preparation and implementation leading to
    ownership (although stakeholders other than beneficiaries could have been more involved,
    including local governments);
    · Preparedness to learn from other experiences;


                                                    - 19 -

     · Capacity to plan in a participatory manner, considering local factors, taking advantage of
     opportunities, and making adjustments and corrections where needed;
     · Ability to take advantage of market opportunities, work with business partners and
     integrate economic and social development objectives; and
     · Work in partnership with local public and private organizations, seeking synergies.

However, the deficiencies of the monitoring and evaluation system (including the lack of a
management information system10) led to less than optimal analysis and learning. Also, regular
technical feedback between the ST and beneficiary associations was mostly weak. Many of the
(mandatory) sub-project reports referred to serious technical problems in the early phase of the
project. Beneficiary associations had the impression that their reports were shelved by the ST
(which they were for the most part). Too little effort was spent on addressing their problems and
registering achievements, with ST having inadequate staff resources to help resolve the technical
problems alluded to in the reports. An early warning system, through which associations could
voice their problems more effectively, and prompt re-design of sub-projects with technical advice
would have led to better results. The interaction between the ST and sub-projects improved over
time, however, and hopefully will be stronger in the second phase, not repeating the same
mistakes or approving projects with similar problems.

10
  Project management failed to perceive, despite repeated Bank alerts, that 422,000 were still available in the final years of
  the EC grant and not committed to sub-projects. This amount was later cancelled, which could have been avoided by a better
  financial management system.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The project was estimated to cost US$22.1 million at the time of appraisal. It was financed by
grants made available from the European Commission, in the amount of 4.0 million ($4.5 million
equivalent at time of appraisal), which were administered by the Bank; from the Rain Forest Trust
Fund (RFT) in the amount of $3.0 million, from Germany through KfW, with 10.2 million (20
million Deutsche Mark, or $11.7 million equivalent at appraisal) and from France, through FFEM
(US$ 0.9 million). Germany's technical cooperation contribution (GTZ) was not counted in
estimated project costs.

Total project cost also included an estimate of beneficiary contributions of $3.0 million expected
from grantee associations, including GTA. No counterpart funds were required from the Federal
Government or from BB, the grant recipient.                     Physical or financial contingencies were not
included, as this was a financial intermediation project.

The bulk of project cost was allocated to sub-grants (76%), another part to support NGO
networks (3%), and the remainder to the various overhead tasks performed by the ST
(sub-project selection, supervision, training, technical assistance, monitoring, evaluation, and
management, 18%). About two percent was reserved for audit costs and fees for the grant
recipient (BB).

During the course of the project, Germany increased its contribution from 10.2 to 17.9 million



                                                           - 20 -

($11.7 to $17.9 million at the original exchange rate). Most, but not all of the German grant had
been disbursed by Dec. 31, 2003. Germany has, however, committed new resources to the
project, making a second phase possible.

The RFT contribution was increased from $3.0 million to $3.94 million, for additional funding for
the work of the Technical Secretariat and for the institutional strengthening of the civil society
networks, RMA and GTA. On the other hand, an (accidentally) unused amount of 422,230 of
the EC contribution was cancelled in 2004.

An additional contribution from the RFT of $2.25 million for a new Environmental Education
component was negotiated in 1997, but never became effective, as BB did not countersign the
amendment to the grant agreement.

France made available an amount of 1.52 million (FF 10 million at the time) for sub-project
grants, which had only been partially disbursed by Dec. 31, 2003.

Appraisal estimates and actual disbursements under the project by the final closing date of Dec.
31, 2003 are shown in the following table. Disbursements are taken as equivalent to project costs
(100% financing). For the beneficiary contributions, only the initial commitments in the approved
sub-project proposals and in the plans of GTA and RMA are known, but no reliable records are
available on actual counterpart contributions, most of which were in kind, not cash.


                              Appraisal                  Actual
Component                     US$ million      %         US$ million      %
Sub-grants                    14.59            76        21.04            78
Support to GTA                0.50             3         0.93             4
Support to RMA                0.08             <1        0.45             1
Overhead tasks                3.56             18        4.02             15
Fees                          0.36             2         0.52             2
Total                         19.09            100%      26.96            100%
Counterpart contributions     3.0                        N.A.


Due to an increase in contributions, the overall project cost rose 40%, and that of sub-project
grants rose 44%. Support to the NGO networks rose 130% (and their counterpart contribution
was not enforced). Spending for overhead tasks, which were of crucial importance under this
pilot project (for monitoring, learning and dissemination), increased less than proportionally by
only 13%, despite a higher workload. As the bilateral donors do not fund overhead costs, the RFT
should have increased its contribution to the work of the Technical Secretariat even more than it
actually did.

Macroeconomic factors had more positive than negative impacts on fund availability. As the bulk
of donor contributions was made through grants in Euro, the decline of the Euro-dollar exchange



                                               - 21 -

rate from about $1.35 in early 1995 to 0$0.85 in late 2000, substantially reduced the dollar
amount available for sub-grants and other purposes. On the other hand, the devaluation of the
Brazilian real since early 1999 more than compensated for this decline, despite inflation. Increased
foreign contributions combined with a real devaluation of the Brazilian currency made for a much
larger amount available for sub-project investments. This should have resulted in a larger number
of sub-projects than without these favorable factors, but due to the persistence of the ceiling of
$210,000 and of the denomination of sub-grants in dollars until 2001, this resource-spreading
effect was much less than it could have been.

There have been five cases of irregular or unaccounted use of funds by sub-grant recipients (three
funded by Germany and two by the EC, with overall disbursements of $252,435, about 1.26 % of
overall sub-grant disbursements). BB cancelled all five contracts, notified the recipients of the
irregularity and requested the return of the disbursed funds. BB refused, however, to take further
judicial action to recoup the funds. Government (MMA) has since stated that the amounts in
question will be included in the list of active debts to government, to be recovered from the
recipients, which would relieve BB of its obligations. This course of action has not yet been finally
and formally agreed upon among the parties (Bank, EC, MMA and BB in the case of EC-funded
projects). An agreement will also have to be reached on the disposition of these funds (returned
to the donor, or used in another (sub)-project) once recouped. The entries for sub-grants in the
tables above and below include the amounts disbursed to the cancelled sub-projects.

The funding of the project by sources, as of Dec. 31, 2003, was as follows:

Component                    RFT          EC       Germany      France
                             US$
                           million
Sub-grants                           -       3.40       16.76        0.88
Support to GTA                   0.50         0.50          -            -
Support to RMA                   0.25         0.09
Overhead tasks                   3.12            -       0.90           -
Fees                             0.06         0.06       0.30        0.01
Total                            3.94         4.05      17.96        0.90
Share                           15%          15%        67%           3%
         (totals made not add up due to rounding)

The German and French contributions are not yet fully disbursed, and Germany has made
available further substantial contributions for the continuation of the project, including, but not
limited to an Indigenous Peoples Development Project and a special line of funding for the
Atlantic Forest region. Given the limited remaining funds in the Rain Forest Trust Fund, and
since the German partners felt that there was no need for continued Bank involvement, the project
is continuing without the Bank and another RFT grant.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:




                                                  - 22 -

Sustainability in the case of this pilot project may refer to several distinct aspects: (a) the
sustainability of the sub-projects financed, (b) the institutional and political sustainability of the
project/program itself, (c) the financial sustainability of the NGO networks, and (d) the project's
lasting impact on public policy.

Sub-projects: The sustainability of sub-projects has social, economic and environmental aspects.
In most cases, the final evaluations predicted good chances for sustainability in social and
organizational terms, as communities did not abandon their undertakings after project support had
ended. As a rule, the better the communities were initially organized and involved in the
discussion, implementation and evaluation of their sub-project, the better the chances for
sustainability appeared to be. Social organization was strengthened in almost all community
sub-projects and is a key factor for economic and environmental sustainability.

Even if sub-projects appear successful at the time of closing, this success must be sustained.
There are not yet enough data available to assess whether this will be the case. Key long-term
economic factors will be reasonable infrastructure (roads, communication, etc.) to link producers
to markets, to ensure stable or growing markets for the products, access to credit at affordable
rates and with compatible maturities, access to quality TA, and internal organization, rules and
management apt to maintain the assets created, including working capital. It was largely beyond
the scope of the project to create or guarantee these necessary conditions, except for internal
organization.     The resilience of successful undertakings in the face of inadequate access to
infrastructure, technical assistance and credit, adverse market conditions or incompetent internal
management, will be low if these factors should indeed be unfavorable. Access to infrastructure,
and even to institutional credit, depends on the communities' ability to connect to and deal with
the local and state "powers that be", apart from macroeconomic conditions and federal policies. It
is difficult to assess whether all these factors will be favorable in the future.

Environmental sustainability is a term with multiple meanings. It can refer to the long-term
chances of the environment to be protected as a consequence of a sub-project (sustained positive
environmental impact), or to the absence of negative environmental impacts that may eventually
threaten the very basis of production and livelihood of communities. Given that most sub-projects
made use of already "degraded" areas or of standing forests for low-impact extraction of timber
and other products (rather than converting them to pasture or cropland), environmental impacts
are likely positive, i.e., reduced deforestation, or improved habitats for biodiversity in agroforestry
systems. There is the possibility of over-extraction of products from forests beyond a "safe
yield", but the communities' increased awareness as to the fragility of local environments that has
been observed should help prevent this.

Where sub-projects were initially "development islands" in the midst of neighbors continuing to
apply slash-and-burn practices, the project appears to have helped to disseminate the idea of using
natural resources sustainably, even if others do not always follow suit. Larger-scale sub-projects,
especially those implemented in the Atlantic Forest, have contributed a great deal to
environmental awareness-raising around the sub-project by promoting seminars and workshops in
partnership with local institutions. Most local and state governments, communities, and public
and private institutions are gradually recognizing the concept and importance of "sustainable



                                                  - 23 -

development", even though their understanding of "sustainability" may vary widely.

Institutional and political sustainability: The project mechanism has been broadly recognized by
civil society, government and donors as an efficient and effective instrument. The prospects for a
second phase of the project with donor support, the expectation that the Federal Government will
continue to carry the administrative costs itself, and the fact that PD/A is now part of GOB's
Pluri-Annual Plan are aspects that show a chance for continuity. It is unlikely, however, that
Brazil would sustain such a program itself without support from donors or agencies like the Bank.
The most promising factor for the political sustainability of the project as a program is the strong
support of organized civil society, which will continue as a force even throughout changes of
government.     PD/A will likely remain as a government program beyond the piloting phase
(although there may be two such programs, one for the Amazon and one for the Atlantic Forest).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The second project phase will focus on the consolidation of promising sub-projects already funded
in the first phase, strengthening their demonstration functions and disseminating best practices to
other communities. A new line of sub-projects (PADEQ) will fund community-based projects on
the Amazonian frontier ("arc of deforestation"), to support sustainable land- use practices and
control and reduce the use of fire. A specific line of sub-projects only for indigenous populations
(PDPI) already started in 2001, and includes lessons learned from this project.

One of the objectives of the second phase of PDA will be the dissemination of good practices
from projects funded during the first phase. The coming years will therefore be crucial for
reaching out to neighboring communities, local institutions and other stakeholders. It remains to
be seen whether the project truly gained knowledge about monitoring, dissemination and learning
based on the lessons from the first phase.

Since there will be a second phase without Bank/RFT participation, the short and medium-term
continuation of the project has been secured. The real issue at hand, however, is "mainstreaming"
- the adoption of proven models and best practices by more communities and smallholder farmers,
and public support to such communities on a broad scale, beyond the limits of a Pilot Program.
Such mainstreaming could involve lending by the Bank or IDB, GEF grants, or larger federal
budget commitments. There are no such plans at this time, although proposed loans to the states
of Amapá, Pará and Amazonas include or will include elements of the PD/A approach and of the
lessons developed under this project.

PROAMBIENTE, a proposal developed by civil society in the Amazon and embraced by MMA,
is a smallholder credit program that also includes TA. It provides for recognition of producers'
"environmental services", through the partial reduction of their interest or repayment obligations.
The individual debt forgiven would be compensated from other sources (e.g., donors). The
proposal is being discussed and carried by smallholder farmer organizations. PROAMBIENTE
has been a priority program of the Ministries of the Environment and Agrarian Reform and might
represent the most important mainstreaming action based on the PD/A project. However, the
source of funds to cover debt or interest still needs to be secured.



                                                  - 24 -

A severe bottleneck to effective mainstreaming is the scarcity of human and organizational
resources available for working with a multitude of communities on a professional basis,
mobilizing, coaching, providing technical and organizational assistance, and monitoring
performance and results. In the absence of a professional (public, private or mixed) support
service with well-trained staff and the presence of active populations in many parts of the Amazon
and Atlantic Forest, it is likely that there will only be as many community projects as there are
able and willing civil or private sector organizations. Both donors and government urgently need
to address this issue.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank showed flexibility and innovativeness in the preparation of this project. It supported
novel institutional arrangements and took a stand for the active participation of organized civil
society. Although lessons learned elsewhere were screened and largely incorporated into project
design, the Bank, as an institution, could have done more to integrate practical (technical and
economic) experiences from elsewhere. Despite including a monitoring and evaluation plan at
appraisal, it should have insisted on the more detailed design and implementation of a solid
monitoring, evaluation, learning and dissemination system in the project, if not at appraisal, then
at the beginning and during implementation.

The Bank played its role well as a partner to both government and civil society, helping the latter
to get a foothold in project (and RFPP) preparation in a historical context of low government
trust of NGOs.

7.2 Supervision:

On the supervision side, the Bank should have insisted more on early baseline work (probably as
part of each sub-project) and the design and implementation of a monitoring, evaluation and
management information system. The Bank provided otherwise adequate technical assistance and
maintained a healthy partnership with the donors KfW and the EC.
The project greatly benefited from the technical cooperation between MMA and the German
agency, GTZ. The latter provided technical assistance directly to the ST, helped effectively with
its internal organization, with the hiring of consultants and in its support to technical evaluations,
workshops and courses. This was crucial to the implementation of the project arrangements
during the first years and also in the final evaluations. GTZ was probably less successful in
establishing the spirit, system and methodology for monitoring, evaluation and learning, which
were so important in a pilot and demonstration project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Bank's main client in the preparation of the project was really MMA and its ST, rather than


                                                  - 25 -

BB, the recipient of grant funds.

The MMA's team had little experience working with the Bank, particularly with Bank procedures,
policies and rules, which were thus often perceived as rigid, even unreasonable. (The only other
MMA experiences with the Bank were the National Environment Project and the National
Biodiversity Project and Fund (GEF). There was no interaction between the Demonstration
Projects team and the teams of the other projects.) The assigned MMA team worked well with
civil society organizations, but other branches of government had, at least initially, difficulties in
accepting new players in what had previously been an exclusive Government-to-Bank
relationship.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The main client, GOB, fielded a team in MMA to manage the project, which was probably too
small and under-funded for this type of pilot project (due largely to the insistence of the German
donor who favored channeling a maximum of funds to communities), most of the time without
any counterpart funds. There was an average of ten staff members, only five of whom were
"technical". This is far less than what is required to evaluate, monitor, disseminate, build capacity,
provide technical assistance and extract lessons. Although the staff was experienced and had
diverse skills, the objectives of the project and the diversity of sub-projects required more
professional experience in economics, conflict resolution and monitoring and evaluation. With
effective support from the German agency, GTZ, the team performed quite well given the
constraints, especially since many of BB's duties were transferred to the ST. Staff members were
highly motivated and there was little turnover during the nine years of implementation. A public
staff selection process in late 2003 finally fielded the government's own staff.

The financial agent and grantee, BB, played a more ambiguous role. As a federal commercial
bank, BB did not place high priority on the administration of grants (as against credit), especially
to communities. It took its role under the grant agreements seriously, but with considerable
reneging and grumbling, somewhat in contrast to its assigned "social role". BB's reluctance was
also due to its perception that the fees charged on disbursements were low in view of the risks of
a possible misuse of funds for which is might be held responsible. In the event, the Federal
Treasury itself is assuming this risk. More had been expected from BB as grant recipient, at least
in terms of financial management.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

See comments above

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned




                                                  - 26 -

1. Pilot projects should produce knowledge, first and foremost.

Pilot projects, such as the Demonstration Projects, are meant to provide knowledge in "uncharted
waters", to find out what works and what doesn't, in an effort to achieve given objectives. What
proves successful may then be "mainstreamed" on a large scale. A pilot project must be designed
to produce reliable knowledge, proven models and lessons from the start. We understand today
that this implies that most of the following elements should be present in the design:

    w Pilot design should begin with brainstorming and defining the gaps in knowledge,
    uncertainties and possible pitfalls, formulating specific questions or hypotheses as to what
    conditions success or failure.
    w The "experiment" should be discussed with the actors (beneficiary community), so that
    everybody involved is clear about what needs to be found out and known. This does not
    mean that knowledge is the only or most important objective of a (sub-) project. Obviously,
    people want better income, employment, resource conservation, etc. in their projects.
    Managers of pilot projects and community participants should also not lose sight of the
    learning character.
    w Knowledge needs determined indicators ­ usually these are related to the objectives and
    expected results (goals), but also to the conditions under which these are achieved or not.
    Indicators may not always be quantitative, but they should be measurable.
    w Indicators and the methods used to measure them should be agreed upon with the actors
    of a sub-project. Preferably, little outside involvement should be required to do the measuring
    (observation, monitoring) and recording, and indicators should be measurable by the
    beneficiaries. The project as a whole will most likely have additional indicators and a
    methodology to facilitate the cross-sectional analyses of sub-projects.
    w Evaluation of results should involve the actors themselves (self-evaluation), but can be
    catalyzed and enriched by observations, lessons and information offered from the outside.
    w Lessons, successful models, and the conditions for success should be documented,
    together with the evidence on which they are based, to be accessible and understandable to the
    public or target audience. This may even be in the form of a "show and tell", i.e., the actors'
    demonstration of a successful venture to others, with the necessary explanations.

Innovative projects "grope in the dark" to some extent, but should do this within a framework
that allows a systematic analysis at both the local (sub-project) and the macro (project) level.
Such systematic piloting has higher costs and requires more specialized staff than general,
"mainstreaming" projects. These costs and human resources should be included in the project.
The rule of thumb that "overhead" should not exceed 15-20% of project cost may not apply to
pilot projects where learning is of the essence and is also the principal output.


2. Novel experiences may not always be so new ­ look first what has already have been
      learned elsewhere

The project was seen as a first-time experiment with novel ways of using natural resources. It



                                                 - 27 -

may have been innovative in Brazil and its rain forests, but it was not the world's first small grants
community project, nor was it the first time that communities tried some form of cooperative
production, processing, or marketing.         Lessons from failures and successes of community
projects, especially cooperatives, and some "dos and don'ts" are usually available elsewhere, even
if they may not be directly applicable to the context at hand.

A lot can go wrong in community enterprises, from lack of working capital, wrong selection of
species for production or extraction, over-extraction, inept cooperative management, neglect of
market conditions, to the ignorance of more subtle environmental impacts. Learning is certainly
most effective when people go through experiences themselves, but needless frustration, loss or
damage can be avoided by applying previously acquired knowledge.


3. Integrate local knowledge and needs in project design

The objectives and design of a sub-project should be based on the community's needs and
demands, so as to guarantee ownership and identification. This lesson is not new, but it has been
confirmed yet again. It applies not only to overall development objectives, technologies and
planned investments, but also to simple things like the selection of species to be used in an
agroforestry system.

It is difficult to select the "best" technical options in a truly first-of-a kind project, where neither
technical assistance nor the producer can rely on much solid prior experience.               Even then
decisions should be discussed and made by the beneficiaries-actors. Professional agronomic advice
is necessary and should be given (see lesson above), but often decisions made by the producers
themselves make a community project successful. In this project, sometimes choices were made
by technical assistance agents or sponsoring NGOs that did not meet community needs.
Sometimes traditional local knowledge or women's concerns were ignored, jeopardizing the
results. Sub-projects were generally more successful, were maintained over a longer period of
time and had fewer problems wherever the creativity and needs of producers were integrated into
their own design (particularly of agroforestry systems).

Technical assistance should not only impart available and proven knowledge; it should respect the
clients and help people learn from their own experience. It should thus concentrate more on
giving producers choices as to how to achieve objectives and refrain from deciding for them. This
type of attitude and assistance requires skills in participatory methodologies, in addition to broad
technical knowledge. Technical assistance naturally tends to teach what it knows instead of
listening to what producers may know or want to know. This may be one of the reasons why
some research institutions coped badly with producer demands, focusing instead on proving
specific, preconceived hypotheses.


4. Technical assistance, of the right kind, should be on call at the beginning

Technical assistance has its place, even in "uncharted waters", to help communities face their



                                                  - 28 -

social, organizational, commercial and technical challenges. Yet it is needed not only during
sub-project implementation, but already when communities are preparing their proposals. Even if
it is more difficult to provide in remote areas, it must be planned for and made accessible early on.

In the face of the scarcity of qualified technical assistance and huge distances, some sub-projects
found adequate solutions that may help others:

     w Try to establish regional or local partnerships for TA that are closer to the sub-projects
     and can provide lessons and ideas taken from similar projects, while building bridges among
     them, disseminating lessons.
     w Technical assistance can be offered by those who have already undergone the learning
     process. An efficient way to disseminate knowledge and experience is to bring producers
     together.
     w Professionals can receive on-the-job training within the sub-projects. An important result
     of many projects was the build-up of professional knowledge, turning producers into qualified
     references or resource persons on specific technical issues. This also helps with sustainability
     and replication.


5. Participatory planning Process and the need for an appraisal procedure

Technical assistance most likely cannot be provided to all those preparing applications, but it
should be made accessible to those with favorable chances of eventually submitting good projects.
A two-stage selection/approval process may be more appropriate. In a first round, all proposals
would be screened for compliance with basic criteria and a selection would be pre-approved.
First applications would be easy to fill, without much training. Pre-approved proposals would
then have the right to technical assistance paid for by the project, although they would still have to
go through a final appraisal and approval, to ensure the quality and transparency of the process.

Before and after approval, a good practice was to have technical assistance agents hold
participatory planning sessions with the community before the first funds were disbursed, going
once more through the project and its phases and offering further advice for implementation. This
helped to set expectations right, formulate realistic goals and implementation plans, and correct
technical errors, while ensuring that community needs were heard and heeded. Such meetings can
also serve to collect and establish baseline data and discuss monitoring indicators.


6. Smaller-scale projects are more efficient and let more people participate

Grants to sub-projects ranged initially between US$20,000 and $210,00011 The thresholds were
later changed to values in Brazilian Reais for new contracts.. Both large and small-scale projects
were able to improve their social organization and technical and financial capacity. On average,
larger-scale projects implemented more activities, but the smaller ones had equal
social-organizational impacts. Wherever poor organization and lack of managerial and technical
capacity were a problem, small-scale projects seemed to be as or even more efficient in filling this



                                                  - 29 -

gap. With smaller sub-grants, a given grant budget can benefit more communities, and a universal
ceiling of $210,000 is too much to start with for many of them. (In the Northeast Rural Poverty
Reduction Projects, the maximum grant is much less).

On the other hand, larger-scale projects seemed to have had more impact on strengthening
environmental awareness and technical capacity on a broader scale, with the promotion of special
events and seminars, and including neighboring communities and stakeholders. Small grant
programs should indeed make smaller grants, at least in a first community experience.

11
 The thresholds were later changed to values in Brazilian Reais for new contracts


7. Integrated natural resource management on the farm tends to show better results than
       isolated activities

Sub-projects that focus on improved practices for the entire holding and included farmers directly
had more long-term measurable benefits. The cost-benefit ratio (grant amount vs. impact on
incomes, environmental protection and community organization) of sub-projects focusing only on
partial farm processes and products (e.g. fish tanks or processing units) was apparently less
favorable. Isolated production activities may show good technical results, but are possibly less
effective for environmental sustainability. The emphasis should be on entire holdings and their
farming systems, rather than on investments in only a part of each system, and the aggregate
impact of many individual systems on the environment should be considered.


8. Stay close to the actors, listen to them and be open for adjustments

Pilot projects are experiments that can potentially fail, but a lot can be learned even from failures.
Still, they can have high social costs in terms of disappointment, frustration, loss of confidence
and a tendency for the implementing communities to return to their "old ways", especially where
expectations had been high. For sub-project approval, an appraisal should not only evaluate
written proposals; it should visit the sites and communities to get insights that written applications
will not convey. Thereafter, implementation must be closely monitored, first and foremost by the
actors themselves, and communications between them and project management must be open and
effective. Staff or consultants must be able to take time to read and react to reports, visit
communities often and help with solutions to problems that may arise. This adds to the costs, but
increases the chances for success and contributes to overall learning.

The capacity and flexibility to adjust a sub-project if needed ("adaptive planning") are also
important, both for the authorizing project staff as well as the sub-project participants.
Adjustments are made more easily and quickly with good sub-project ownership.


9. Sustainability will emerge only over the longer term, and should be reached in small steps

The expectation that communities and their projects would reach a stage of likely sustainability



                                                           - 30 -

within three years may not have been truly harbored by anybody, but was nevertheless codified in
the project rules.          Three years are unrealistic, especially with regard to economic and
environmental aspects. Where little organization existed before, sub-projects can contribute to
satisfying some basic needs and strengthening community organization and capacity. However, it
will have difficulty reaching economic sustainability and significant environmental impacts in a
short period of time.

Sub-projects with a longer organizational history tend to approach sustainability faster.
Consolidation and maturity should probably not be expected before about five to ten years, as
suggested by communities that had implemented other projects before receiving a grant under this
project.

It appears preferable to initially fund small-scale projects with shorter implementation periods
within a sequence of grants over a longer time period and with longer commitments from donors
or the Bank ("APL"-style, with trigger conditions related to organization, financial management
and marketing). A gradual, step-by-step approach, with realistic expectations for each phase, is
likely to be more effective, particularly for the design of projects in isolated regions with less
experienced and organized communities. This will reduce operational risks, guarantee long-term
involvement and make adjustments easier than in single large grants.

12
 This confirms one of the findings of a World Bank research study by Mansuri, G. and Rao, V. "Community-Based and -
Driven Development: A Critical Review", WB Research Paper 3209, 2004.


10. Partnership with local institutions contributes to sustainability

Sub-projects eventually benefited from establishing partnerships with local governments and
institutions. Cooperation with state agencies was more difficult, mainly because the project was a
federal one with no links to state programs and therefore practically bypassed the state
governments. A lack of cooperation with local government and institutions during preparation
hampered many of the sub-projects because they were perceived as "falling out of the sky" by
municipal governments and the local "powers that be", which were often not informed about what
was planned, much less consulted. It helps sustainability to be on good terms with local
government13.

"Paper partnerships", however, did not contribute to the sub-projects' success. To be effective,
partnerships may have to be reestablished over and over again, especially in remote areas with
weak institutions. The involvement of the right person in an institution may be more effective than
a formal partnership.

13
 The political situation during the early nineties in Brazil may not have been ripe for community-driven projects,
  as state and local political elites in the Amazon did not much appreciate them. Some sub-projects may simply
  not have happened, had they depended on the initial cooperation of municipal authorities.




                                                         - 31 -

11. Partnerships with the Private Sector ­ both sides have to learn and to adjust their way
      of thinking

Communities entered into partnerships with the private sector in several cases, and such
partnerships have become a magic word for solving community development in the Amazon. But
the interest of a major company in working with a community for raw material collection or
production is not enough.      In fact, in some cases, it may create more problems for the
communities. Successful partnerships (e.g., with Daimler-Chrysler, Cognis/Natura and the Pão de
Açúcar supermarket chain) produced valuable lessons on what to look for in such partnerships:

    w The partnership should be built on a long-term commitment, where both parties
    understand that sustainable economic results will take time. Expectations of immediate results
    will only lead to disappointment. Businesses should not seek partnerships merely for the sake
    of "marketing benefits" (although they will always be an important factor).
    w Negotiation of long-term partnerships takes time. Adequate intermediation by an "honest
    broker" is needed to adjust expectations on both sides and to enable everyone to see both the
    opportunities and limitations (project cycle, product quality, procurement problems,
    communication difficulties, regularity of supply, etc.). The "honest broker" should not be
    responsible for implementing a project. Communities have to learn to negotiate by themselves.


A wise division of labor between the partners is needed. Each should concentrate on what he can
do best. Communities should process a product up to the point after which its comparative
advantage ends, and where the private sector can follow up more efficiently. For example,
creating high value products in the forest for export to New York consumers does not work
without a savvy intermediator.


12. Agroforestry Systems ­ not only an agronomic model

The project funded a large number of agroforestry systems all over the two biomes. There is, of
course, no single ideal agroforestry model, as everything depends on local circumstances - soils,
climate, demand, distance to markets and local resources. It is difficult to evaluate if (and which)
agroforestry systems were successful after a three-year implementation period, as such systems
need a longer time to mature. Nevertheless, some lessons can already be drawn:

    w Local producers must be free to pursue their own ideas and decisions as to what kind of
    species mix should be adopted. It is essential to involve women, because they are the ones
    who think of the need to feed the family, whereas men tend to favor commercial crops.
    Technical assistance should not define the choice of species but should assist the producers in
    applying best agronomic practices.
    w Producers should be stimulated to think of subsistence needs with more immediate
    economic returns first, before aiming at sales at distant markets. Women are important for
    keeping the focus on this need. Many agroforestry systems failed because of false market



                                               - 32 -

    expectations, so that producers lost interest in maintaining them. Even the best systems with
    cash crops will have difficulties overcoming long distances, lack of infrastructure or
    insufficient local market demand.
    w Systems should be simple, and keep inputs and labor demands within the limits of a
    smallholder family, especially at the beginning. Complex systems with long-term maturation
    may fail because they neglect fast-growing crops mixed with slower-maturing ones and trees,
    but also because the producer must invest considerable time in maintaining the system, which
    may break family labor constraints.
    w Agroforestry systems should take advantage of deforested land under regeneration
    (secondary growth) rather than using recently cleared land. Enriching re-growing vegetation
    with perennial crops showed reasonably good results, with lower seedling mortality and labor
    costs.
    Local market demand and transport infrastructure are essential for commercial crops. This
    may be why agroforestry in the Atlantic Forest tended to have better commercial success than
    in the Amazon. Local markets are better developed, distances are less and producers are
    generally better equipped than those in the Amazon. For long-distance markets, only
    non-perishable products should be considered.


13. Extractivism, Forest Management and NTFP

The second largest number of initiatives financed by the project focused on the collection and
processing of "non-timber forest products" (NTFP) and on managing forests for those products.
Although many of the following lessons are not new, they had to be learned the hard way by many
communities under this project:

    w Withveryfewexceptions,thecollectionofNTFPrepresentsaperiodic,oftenunstableand
    low income for the farmer, and is not his sole income. It also does not satisfy subsistence
    needs, as NTFPs have mostly commercial value. They must be complemented by subsistence
    crops. Extractive activities alone are not likely to keep the producers in the forest. The
    introduction of new NFTP products, which producers did not know how to collect, stock and
    sell, was rarely successful.
    w Products vary in size and quality, and are often subject to fluctuating world market prices,
    changes in consumer preferences and quality restrictions. Many markets are dominated by
    buyers who care little for the producers' fate. Concentrating on only one crop is risky.
    w Manyproducercooperativesorassociationshavetheambitionofrunningprocessingunits
    to add value to raw products. Few of these achieved their objectives. Planning rarely took into
    account limited management capacity, infrastructure and marketing knowledge, political
    interference, working capital needs and supply shortages. Processing projects should be kept
    as simple as possible to ensure success. Despite the ambition of community leaders to turn
    into instant entrepreneurs, a step-by-step approach should be followed, gathering experiences
    based on a realistic plan and broad community involvement.
    w Local markets are important. Except for a few private-sector partnerships where markets
    can be conquered outside the region, products should be developed for markets with local
    demand for modest quantities and where producers can gather experience in selling this kind



                                                - 33 -

    of product. The quality of raw material or semi-processed products should be improved to
    fetch higher prices locally (dried fruits, oils, improved manioc flour, etc.).

The "vertical integration" of production processes has had limited success. A horizontal approach
(diversification of raw materials) produces better economic results.


14. Community-driven development must be complemented by other policies supporting
      regional sustainable development

Almost ten years of experience working with communities within the RFPP have led to a
considerable change in the sustainable management of natural resources by communities in the
region. Without a more comprehensive regional and local development strategy, however, which
would also address the need for basic education, health, credit, communication, transport and
energy, community-driven projects alone cannot be expected to turn the tide and become truly
sustainable.

Isolated communities are particularly vulnerable to adverse impacts. In many cases, this project
was the first and only investment supported by the outside. While many communities made good
use of the sub-grants, one should not expect them to be "living happily ever after". A longer-term
and more comprehensive support strategy is needed to secure these first results.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

not received from the implementation agency

(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments from GTZ, German Technical Cooperation

The PDA Demonstrative Project was one of the first projects within the Pilot Program with
technical assistance provided by GTZ, working together with the technical secretariat of PDA.
GTZ shares the Bank's opinion about the Performance Ratings of PDA. PDA was very successful
in establishing working relations in a multilateral program with numerous and different partners.

The conception and implementation of a professional and participatory mechanism of project
selection, within a political context where civil society participation in government decisions was
rather negligent stands out as a model for other PPG7 projects. PDA pioneered the creation of an
innovative, transparent and low-cost funding mechanism. This was to implement sustainable
development projects together with local communities in remote regions of the Amazon and
Atlantic rainforests, respecting the particular conditions of each partner. The internal organization
and qualification of the project personnel to carry out the great variety of daily tasks was one of
the principle tasks of GTZ cooperation.




                                                  - 34 -

The monitoring system remained a challenge throughout PDA´s implementation. The enormous
diversity of subprojects in terms of size, area of work, target groups and thematic variability,
difficult access and enormous geographic distances made defining needs extremely difficult.
Cost-benefit relationships were difficult to establish. Over time these became clearer through the
management of accumulated knowledge and shared experience within and between the
subprojects. PDA played a pioneering role within Pilot Project introducing, testing and adapting
innovative monitoring approaches such as participatory monitoring. An important contribution of
GTZ was the methodological support of studies analyzing the experiences of 20 projects in the
Amazon and 12 projects in the Atlantic rainforest. This highlighted important results and lessons
learnt from the demonstrative projects Estudos da Amazônia: Avaliação de vinte projetos, PDA.
Brasília: Ministério de Meio Ambiente, 2004.
Estudos da Mata Atlântica: Avaliação de doze projetos PDA. Brasília: Ministério de Meio
Ambiente, 2004.

Implementation of a communication strategy and the dissemination of experiences and lessons
learnt are important within the present project phase (2004-2006).

The overall challenge is to create mechanisms allowing the internalization of this type of Fund
within the government. GTZ supported the creation of an innovative mechanism with the OSCIP
Coalizão Florestas to act as a catalyst for national and international, public and private funds
within an institutional model which allows partnerships between the State and Civil Society
organizations allowing administration of public funding. The agility and flexibility of this
mechanism guarantees efficient and effective resource management without loosing necessary
control.

The most important results of PDA have been the formation of social capital and the
strengthening of civil society in the Brazilian Amazon and the acknowledgement and support for
the preservation of the remaining areas of Atlantic forest. This has contributed to the formation of
an innovative public policy ­ PROAMBIENTE and has also impacted on the Brazilian Ministry of
the Environment's Atlantic Forest Program and PDA Atlantic Forest.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Comments from the KfW, Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau

We thank you very much for the preliminary version of the PDA Report. The Report presents a
good and broad analyses of the project. We consider it excellent the fact that the report does not
only show the positive results of the project but also provides a critical analyses of the existing
problematic aspects. In this sense we do not have any additional comments as we fully agree with
the report.

We appreciate the idea of implementing an inter-institutional group to discuss a specific
dissemination plan. An example of this could be the consolidation projects in phase III of PDA.


10. Additional Information



                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A                                                                                  N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
% of proposals received which are approved 18,5%                                     18,5%
No. and amount of funds by size category of large projects: 89%                      large projects: 89%
executed sub-projects                        medium size projects: 8%                medium size projects: 8%
                                             small size projects: 3%                 small size projects: 3%


No./amount of funds by subject area          Agroforestry Systems: 47%               Agroforestry Systems: 47%
                                             Forest Manaement: 30%                   Forest Manaement: 30%


No./amount of funds by type of organization  ONGs - U$ 8.221.628                     ONGs - U$ 8.221.628
                                              Associações - U$ 6.546.247               Associações - U$ 6.546.247
                                              Cooperativas - U$ 1.871.075              Cooperativas - U$ 1.871.075
                                              Sindicatos - U$ 1.852.072                Sindicatos - U$ 1.852.072
                                              ONGs Indigenistas 1.488.873              ONGs Indigenistas 1.488.873
                                              Federações - U$ 916.282                  Federações - U$ 916.282
                                              Organizações Indígenas - U$ 807.059      Organizações Indígenas - U$ 807.059
                                              Entidades Quilombolas - U$ 218.670       Entidades Quilombolas - U$ 218.670
                                              Prefeitura - U$ 127.738                  Prefeitura - U$ 127.738


No./amount of funds by region                 Amazon 147 projects, U$ 16.042.035,70    Amazon 147 projects, U$ 16.042.035,70
(Amazon/Atlantic Forest)                      Atlantic 47 projects, U$ 6.007.608,62    Atlantic 47 projects, U$ 6.007.608,62


% of acceptable proposals from                                                       40 projects received training during proposal
organizations which received training during not monitored                           preparation by GAPEP
proposal preparation


% of compliance with administrative and      90%                                     98%
accouting norms


% of organizations which receive training on not monitored                           not monitored
organizational structure that experienced
improvement


% of proposals processed within established 15%                                      12%
time limits


% of sub-projects which receive funds within nm                                      not monitored
established time limits


% of reformulated proposals recommended      nm                                      47,5%
by GAP after reformulation


% of problematic sub-projects assited by TS nm                                       6,2%
or GAPEP that reached their stated
objectives


% of successful sub-projects documented by nm                                        75% successful




                                                               - 37 -

subject area and region




1End of project




                           - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                             Estimate          Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million       US$ million
Sub-grants to communities                                      14.59               21.04
Support to GTA                                                   0.50                1.00
Support to RMA                                                   0.08                0.34
Overhead tasks                                                   3.56                4.02
Fees                                                             0.36                0.44
Counterpart contributions                                        3.00                3.00

Total Baseline Cost                                            22.09               29.84
                         Total Project Costs                   22.09               29.84
                   Total Financing Required                    22.09               29.84
Note1: Community counterpart contributions were required but not quantified and verified.
Note 2: Table include contributions from the European Community, Germany (KfW) France (FFEM) and
the RainForest Trust Fund

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB                   2          N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           1.54              0.00       1.54
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           0.12              0.00       0.12
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           1.18              0.00       1.18
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Subprojects                       0.00            0.00          17.58              0.00      17.58
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Fees                              0.00            0.00           0.46              0.00       0.46
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Consultants                       0.00            0.00           1.23              0.00       1.23
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.00            0.00          22.11              0.00      22.11
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB                  2          N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00            0.11             0.00       0.11
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00            0.98             0.44       1.42
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)



                                                 - 39 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Subprojects                          0.00               0.00             24.04             0.00             24.04
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Fees                                 0.00               0.00              0.44             0.00              0.44
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Consultants                          0.00               0.00              2.73             0.00              2.73
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00             29.40             0.44             29.84
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Sub-grants                     0.00                      3.44                                3.40        0.0               98.8
Support to GTA                 0.00                      0.50        0.50                    0.50        0.0              100.0
Support to RMA                 0.00                      0.09        0.35                    0.09        0.0              100.0
Overhead tasks                 2.65                                  3.12                               117.7
fees                           0.05                      0.06        0.00                    0.06        0.0              100.0
unallocated                    0.30                      0.35                                            0.0                0.0

   Note 1: Table only includes the contributions from the European Community (CoF.) and the Rain Forest
   Trust Fund (Bank) , as projects financed by KfW and FFEM are still ongoing




                                                          - 40 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994                    10      Task Manager (1)                      S              HS
                                              Community Development
                                             Specialists (2)
                                               Economist (1)
                                               Environmental Lawyer (1)
                                               Operations Specialists (2)
                                               Consultants (3)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1996                      6     Mission Leader (1)                    HS              S
                                              Community Development
                                             Specialist (1)
                                               Environmental Lawyer (1)
                                               Financial Analyst (1)
                                               Operations Specialist (1)
                                               Consultants (1)


 Supervision
              12/15/1996                2     Team Leader (1);                      S               S
              12/20/1996                        Operations Specialist (1)
                                                                                    S               S
              08/25/1997                8      Task Team/Mission Leader (1)
               09/05/1997                      Head of PPG7 (1);
                                               Anthropologist (1);
                                               Civil Society Liaison (1);
                                               Operations Analyst (1);
                                               Consultants (3)
                                                                                    S               S
              03/30/1998                4      Task Team/Mission Leader (1)
              04/02/1998                       Anthropologist (1);
                                               Civil Society Liaison (1);
                                               Regional Planner (1);
                                                                                    S               S
               09/02/1998               2      Task Team/Mission Leader (1)
               09/16/1998                      Anthropologist / Task Manager
                                             (1)
                                                                                    S               S
              09/11/2000                4      Anthropologist/Task Mngr (1)
              09/15/2000                       Procurement Analyst (1)
                                               Biodiversity Specialist (1)
                                               Private Sector /Forest Spec (1)
                                                                                    S               S
              08/27/2001                2       Private Sector /Forest Spec (1)
              08/30/2001                        Operations Analyst (1);



                                              - 42 -

                                                                                S     S
               09/23/2002              2      Private Sector /Forest Spec (1)
               10/03/2002                     Operations Analyst (1);
                                                                                S     S
               09/01/2003              2     Private Sector /Forest Spec (1)
               09/02/2003                    Operations Analyst (1);

 ICR
               10/2004                1     Task Manager (1)                    HS    HS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               40                               66
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    73                           210.4
  Supervision                            156                            311.2
  ICR                                      14                               16
  Total                                  273                            603.6




                                            - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
        Community Organization
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Civil Society development




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Azevedo, R. A. B. (Março, 1999) ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil
­Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA ­ Estrutura conceitual para a avaliação e monitoramento dos
projetos do PD/A com base em indicadores, Brasília

Banco Mundial (Agosto, 2001). Estudos sobre os fundos sociais e ambientais apoiados pelo
Banco Mundial no Brasil (Relatório Final do "Estudo dos Fundos de Pequenas Doações em
Projeto Apoiados pelo Banco Mundial no Brasil).

Banco Mundial ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil ­ Projetos
Demonstrativos ­ PD/A ­ Missão de Supervisão 11 a 15 de setembro, 2000 (Ajuda Memória)

Banco Mundial (Outubro, 2001) ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil
­ Subprograma Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA ­ Avaliação de aspectos da sustentabilidade
ambiental dos sistemas agro-florestais: Um estudo de caso

Banco Mundial (1998) ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil ­
Subprograma Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA ­ Manual de Operações Execução Técnica e
Financeira de Subprojetos

Banco Mundial ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil ­ Projetos
Demonstrativos ­ PD/A ­ Missão de Supervisão do Banco Mundial e Avaliação do Aumento da
KfW - 27 a 30 de agosto, 2000 (Ajuda Memória)

Banco Mundial ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil ­ Subprograma
Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA ­ Missão de Supervisão e Pré-Appraisal do componente "Mata
Atlântica ­ 23 de setembro a 3 de outubro, 2002 (Ajuda Memória)

Ghazala Mansuri and Vijayendra Rao, Community Based (and Driven) Development: A
Critical Review; World Bank - Research Working Paper 3209, 2004
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=365960

Guimarães, Alice (2002) - Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA ­ Relatório de Acompanhamento ­
AMA

Leroy, J-P. & Toledo, G. T. (Maio, 2001) ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção às Florestas Tropicais
do Brasil ­ Experiências      PDA Nº 1 ­ Projeto Frutos do Cerrado ­ Novo Rumo para o
desenvolvimento regional.

Lisansky, Judith, and Loretta Sprissler. 2002. "Lessons from the Rain Forest: Participation in
the First Decade of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest." In Moji Anderson,
ed., Thinking Out Loud III: Innovative Case Studies on Participatory Instruments. Latin America
and the Caribbean Region, World Bank, Washington, D.C.




                                              - 46 -

Ministério do Meio Ambiente/ SCA / PPG7 /PDA (1998) ­ Oficinas de intercâmbio de
experiências ­ lições dos projetos apoiados pelo PDA-PPG7 ­ Resultados.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente/SCA/PPG7/PDA. (Junho, 2001). Proposta de Consolidação dos
Projetos Demonstrativos ­ PDA, Brasília.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 (2000) ­ Subprograma de Projetos
Demonstrativos - Relatório de Atividades 2000

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 / AMA / WB (2002) - Lessons from the Rain
Forest ­ Experience of the Pilot Program to conserve the Amazon and Atlantic Forests of Brazil

Ministério do Meio Ambiente/ SCA / PDA (2001) ­ Projetos Demonstrativos no Estado do
Rio Grande do Sul: Experimentos Locais e Possibilidades de Consolidação ­ Uma contribuição
para a Missão de Avaliação do PDA de 27 a 31 de agosto de 2001 (Ricardo Verdum)

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 (Maio, 2004) Experiências PDA Nº 4 ­ Estudos
da Mata Atlántica Avaliação de doze projetos PDA.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 / PDA ­ Relatório de Avaliação ­ Subprograma
Projetos Demonstrativos, Abril de 2004.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 - Subprograma de Projetos Demonstrativos
Projeto BRA/93/044 ­ Relatório Anual de Progresso, Janeiro a Dezembro de 2003.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 - Subprograma de Projetos Demonstrativos
Projeto BRA/93/044 ­ Relatório Anual de Progresso, Janeiro a Dezembro de 2002.

Ministério do Meio Ambiente / SCA / PPG7 (Maio, 2004) Experiências PDA Nº 5 ­ Estudos
da Amazônia tlántica Avaliação de doze projetos PDA: Avaliação de Vinte Projetos PDA.

PDA em Campo (2003) ­ Projetos monitorado 2002/2003

PPG7 & GTZ (2003) ­ Subprograma de Projetos Demonstrativos (SPD) - Cooperação Técnica
Brasil-Alemanha ­ Avaliação do Desenvolvimento do Programa (PFK) ­ Relatório Final - Caio
Marcio Silveira, Carlos Amaral, Han-Jürgen Fiege & Maria Emilia Lisboa Pacheco.

PPG7 / Subprograma PDA ­ Cinco Anos de PDA: Lições aprendidas no processo de avaliação,
Outubro 2001

PPG7 / Subprograma PDA ­ Projetos Econômicos no PDA: Levantamento e situação quanto a
obtenção de créditos comerciais, Outubro de 2001.

PPG7 / Subprograma PDA ­ Oficina de auto-monitoramento do Sub-programa Projetos
Demonstrativos - Paulo Sérgio Ferreira Neto, Novembro de 2003



                                              - 47 -

SCHERR, S. J. & WHITE, A. & KAIMOWITZ, D. (2001) ­ Making Forest Markets Work
for Low-Income Producers ­ Policy Brief ­ Forest Trends (Washington, DC) & Center for
International Forestry Research (Bongor, Indonésia) ­ October 23, 2001

SCHÄFFER, W. B. ­ O mecanismo PDA ­ Lição de Política Pública ­ Como fazer parcerias
entre Poder Público e Organizações da Sociedade Civil de forma ágil, trasnparente e responsable.

Vivan, J. L. & Monte, N. L. & Gavazzi, R. A. (Agosto, 2002) ­ Programa Piloto de Proteção
às Florestas Tropicais do Brasil ­ Experiências PDA Nº 3 ­ Comissão Pró-Índio do Acre ­
Implantação de tecnologias de manejo agroflorestal em terras indígenas do Acre.

Wagner B. de Almeida, A., "The Growing Pains of an Unprecedented Civil Society ­
Government Partnership in the Brazilian Amazon: The Case of the Amazon Working Group
(GTA)", in Thinking Out Loud, Innovative Case Studies on Participatory Instruments, LCR Civil
Society Team (PREM/ESSD), World Bank, 2001

Weiss, J. (Março, 2000). Estudos sobre os fundos sociais e ambientais financiados ou
administrados pelo Banco Mundial no Brasil (Relatório Geral I "Lições aprendidas da experiência
comparada entre fundos no Brasil e no exterior).

World Bank (2003). Implementation Completion Report (CPL ­ 34440) - Rondônia Natural
Resources Management Project - (Loan Number 3444-BR).

World Bank (2001). Implementation Completion Report (TF ­ 21949; TF - 21948) ­ Science
and Technology Subprogram: Science Centers & Directed Research ­ Phase I - And Emergency
Assistance - (Report Number 22533).

World Bank & Banco do Brasil S. A. (1994) ­ Rain Forest Trust Fund Grant and CEC Grant
Agreement (Demonstration Project).

World Bank (1994) Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest ­ Memorandum and
Recommendation of the Director of the Latin American and Caribbean Department I to the
Regional Vice President on a Proposed Grant from the Rain Forest Trust Fund to the Bank of
Brazil for Demonstration Projects ­ Report nº 12602-BR




                                              - 48 -

- 49 -

