                                           Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 34869-SK




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                       PROPOSEDLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFEUR 1.30MILLION
                              (US$1.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                     SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                             FORA

            LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT

           INSUPPORTOF THE SECONDPHASEOFTHEUS$lOO MILLION
      SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (SIDEM)
                 FOR ELIGIBLEMEMBERS OF THE EUROPEANUNION(APL)

                                        January27,2006




Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopmentSector Unit
CentralEuropeand the Baltic States Country Unit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate EffectiveJanuary 1,2006)


                           Currency Unit = Slovak Koruna (SKK)
                               31.5SKK   = U S $ l
                                 38SKK = E m 1
                                  US $1 = EUR0.84

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1  - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA       AgriculturePayingAgency
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
ARVI      Slovak Agency for RuralDevelopment
CAP       European Union Common Agriculture Policy
EAFRD     European Agricultural Fundfor Rural Development
EAGGF     European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
EU        EuropeanUnion
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
H C T A   HumanCapital Technical Assistance Project (World Bank-funded)
LAG       Local Action Group
L S A     LivingStandardsAssessment
MOA       MinistryofAgriculture ofthe Slovak Republic
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
NUTS      Nomenclature des Unites Territorial Statistique (statistical categorizationo f
          townhillage size)
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
SAPARD    EuropeanUnion Technical Assistance Programfor Pre-Accession
SIDEMAPL Social andInstitutionalDevelopment andEconomic Management Technical
          Assistance Program (SIDEM) for Eligible Members o fthe European Union (APL)
S K K     Slovak Koruna
SOE       Statements o f Expenditure
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms o f Reference
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
VPA       Slovak Rural Parliament (NGO)
VUEPP     Slovak Institute for FoodandAgriculture Research



                         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                      Country Director:      Daniela Gressani
                       Sector Manager:       Benoit Blare1
                    Task Team Leader:        DavidA. Bontempo

  SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT
                                            CONTENTS
                                                                              Page
A.    STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                          1
      1.      Country and Sector Issues                                       1
      2.      Rationale for Bank Involvement                                  2
      3.      Higher Level o f Objectives to Which the Project Contributes    2

B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                     2
      1.      Lending Instrument                                              2
      2.      Program Objective and Phases                                    2
      3.      Project Development Objective and Key Indicators                2
      4.      Project Components                                              3
      5.      Lessons Learnedand Reflected inProject Design                   4
      6.      Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection               5

C.    IMPLEMENTATION                                                          5
      1.      Partnership Arrangements                                        5
      2.      Institutional and ImplementationArrangements                    5
      3.      Monitoring and Evaluation o f OutcomesResults                   6
      4.       Sustainability                                                 6
      5.       Critical Risks and Possible ControversialAspects               6
      6.       Loan Conditions and Covenants                                  7

D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                                       8
      1.       Economic and FinancialAnalysis                                 8
      2.       Technical                                                      8
      3.       Fiduciary                                                      8
      4.       Social                                                         9
      5.       Environment                                                    10
      6.       Safeguard Policies                                             10
      7.       Policy Exceptions and Readiness                                10

ANNEXES
Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                              11
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank, 2002-2005                15
Annex 3: Results Framework                                                    16
Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                                           18
Annex 5: Project Costs                                                        24
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                                           25
Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                    28
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                                             32
Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalyses                                       35
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues                                             36
Annex 11:Project Processing                                                   37
Annex 12: Documents inProject File                                            38
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                                      39
Annex 14: Country at a Glance                                                 40
Annex 15: OngoingMeasures SupportingRural Development                         42
Map: IBRD33480

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                   SLOVAK REPUBLIC

 LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (UNDERTHE SIDEM
                                        FACILITY)

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                             EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                          ECSSD

Date: January 27,2006                         Team Leader: David A. Bontempo
Country Director: Daniela Gressani            Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Sector ManagerDirector: Benoit Paul Blare1    forestry sector (100%)
                                              Themes: Rural policies and institutions
                                              (P);Other ruraldevelopment (S);Participation
                                              and civic engagement (S)
Project ID: PO90884                           Environmental screening category: Not
                                              Required
LendingInstrument: Adaptable Program Loan

[XILoan     [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant [ 3 Guarantee      [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 1.50
Proposed terms: FSL loan inEuro with bullet repayment inJune 2010; standard charges for
commitment fees and service charges for FSL subject to any waivers.




Borrower:
Slovak Republic

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministry o fAgriculture
Dobrovicova 12
Bratislava
Slovak Republic
81266
Attn: Ms.Nora Gyureova, ProjectDirector (nora.avureova@,land.gov.sk)
                                                         -

Annual         0.30      0.90       0.30      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Cumulative    0.30       1.20        1.50     1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50       1.50    1.50




microregionterritories according to the criteria from the EUregulation for Leader approach.
This component will help the Managing authority to know more about individual microregions
and to choose the right territories for support. It could also help the municipalities indefining
their opportunities for cooperation among themselves.

 Component 3: Formation andTraining of Local Action Groups, and Implementation o fPilot
Proiects (US$ 880,000)
The objective o f this component i s to pilot Leader approach inthree regions, to obtain some
practical experience with this new rural development approach prior to the hllimplementation
period in2007-2013. This component also has the keytask o f forming and training the Local
Actions Groups which will implement Leader projects.

 Component 4: (US$ 75,000) Creation o fNational Rural Network
Creation of the framework o fthe National RuralNetwork inthe Slovak Republic, through a
determinationo f the main rural actors and responsible persons (functions) for managing the
network.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
The only safeguard triggered i s "Environmental Assessments", andthis i s only triggeredfor the
purpose o f establishing the Environmental Category. There are no significant environmental
impacts foreseen; the project is categorized as "C".

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
Not applicable.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
The appointment of the Project Director andDeputy Director with qualifications and under
Terms o fReference satisfactory to the Bank. - Condition has been met.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
- Mid-termreviewby February 15,2007;
- Maintenance o f a Steering Committee duringproject implementation;
- Maintenance o f a Working Group duringproject implementation.;
- Application ofthe OperationalManual;
- Conclusionby the Borrower o fFinancing Agreements with each LocalActions Group eligible
under the Project.

Condition o fDisbursement for Pilot Projects
- Adoption o fthe OperationalManual


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. CountryandSectorIssues

The Slovak Republic's entry into the European Union in h-iy 2004, and subsequent access to
enhanced allocation of EU structural funds, has made an immediate positive impact on the country's
agncultural sector performance. While favorable weather conditions (and hence very good crop
yields) in 2004 contributed to this profitability, EU funds made an important contribution. Of the
total EU funds, two-thirds were allocated to direct payments and so-called "top-ups" (additions to
direct subsidy payments from the state budget), with only one-third allocated to interventions for
"Less Favored Areas". T h s allocation of support i s appropriate in the immediate post-Accession
period, inorder to assist the larger farm operations to be competitive inthe new circumstances.

However, for the next EU funding period, from 2007-2013, the Ministry o f Agnculture (MOA)will
need to re-orient its strategy. Because o f EU requirements, the amounts allocated for rural
development will be significantly increased. `Rural development' in this context implies a reduced
importance o n agriculture per se, and could include, inter alia, payments for: agro-environment
schemes; ago-forestry; environmental services; conservation; rural tourism; small-scale local
infrastructure; and other local or regionally-based activities w h c h allow rural inhabitants to &versify
their income sources.

EU Leader Program. The `Leader' program of the EUis completing its final phase             - the so-called
"Leader+"    program (Leader Iand Leader I1 preceded Leader+).            The Leader program provides
member states with funding for new approaches to sustainable rural development.               The Leader
approach seeks to "encourage and help rural actors to thnk about the longer-term potential o f their
area. It seeks to encourage the implementation o f integrated, high-quality, original strategies for
sustainable development designed to encourage experimenting with new ways of: enhancing the
natural and cultural heritage; reinforcing the economic environment, in order to contribute to job
creation; and improving the organizational abilities o f their community."          The above goals are
primarily met by carrying out small to medium-sized projects.           Projects can be in virtually any
productive sector, and typically focus on the use o f new technologes to make the products and
services o f rural areas more competitive, w h c h will improve the quality o f life in rural areas; add
value to local products; make the best use o f natural and cultural resources; restore cultural heritage
sites; and develop ago-tourism.

EU Leader Axis within the EAFRD. For the 2007-2013 programming period, the EU will be re-
orienting its rural development support policies, according to three `axes' under a single new funding
instrument, the European Agricultural Fundfor Rural Development (EAFRD). These axes are: "Axis
 1- Improvingthe Competitiveness of the Agricultural and Forestry Sector"; "Axis 2 -Improvingthe
Environment and the Countryside"; and "Axis 3 - The Quality o f Life in Rural Areas and
Diversification o f the Rural Economy".     Inaddition, the EAFRDcontains a Leader Axis (Axis 4)
which must be contained in each country program to finance the local groups and their activities
under each o fthe 3 main axes. Slovakia has a possible allocation o f over EUR 50 million for projects
falling under the Leader Axis.       The Ministry o f Agriculture strongly believes that the Leader
approach, and the projects it generates, will be the key intervention to realize the potential o f the rural
areas. For this to happen there will need to be a very large investment in enhancing the capacity o f
local actors throughout the country. There are a number o f agencies active inrural regions (including
e.g., local governments, regional offices of the Agriculture Paying Agency (APA),regonal offices o f
the Agency for Rural Development (ARVI), local agriculture chambers, NGO Rural Parliament and
other NGOs), but their efforts are not well-coordinated, and they lack the specific skills required to
access this new source o f funds.

Inaddition to capacity enhancement of the regions, there is an immediate need to develop the
capacity o f the central government authorities responsible for the EU-funded Leader Axis.               At
present, MOAcapacity to undertake program preparation for the Leader approach, andits subsequent
implementation, needs further development.

                                                  -1-

On average, at least 2.5% o f the total fimding for the next programming period is to be set aside for
Leader-type interventions, so the above-mentioned capacity is critical. For the new member states,
including Slovakia, EAFRD regulations allow the Leader program to be phased in over the
programming period, in order to reach an allocation level of at least 5% by the end of the
programming period.

2. Rationale for BankInvolvement

Since Spring 2005, the Bank and MOAhave been discussing the opportunities for direct support to
prepare for rural development fundingopportunities withn the Leader Axis.

The Bank is particularly well-suited to assist with this preparation. The Leader approach is very
similar to a "community driven development" model, and the Bank has extensive, world-wide
experience in t h s field. In particular, numerous projects have demonstrated the possibility o f
channeling substantial amounts o f funding through local agencies and local action groups, while
avoiding corruption, which i s an important concern to the MOA. The Bank has supported rural
development initiatives inother new member states, such as Poland, Estonia, and Latvia.

3. Higher LevelObjectivesto Which the ProjectContributes

The most important medium-term objective o f the MOAi s to develop new approaches to sustainable
rural development. This is alluded to inthe recent Country Partnership Strategy, under the heading of
`Structural Reforms to Enhance Competitiveness', including promotion o f rural development in the
poorest rural areas o f the country. It is therefore crucial to ensure that strateges, policies, and
institutional arrangements are adequate to ensure maximum uptake and effective utilization o f EU
funds, inparticular underthe Leader axis, duringthe 2007-2013 period.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. LendingInstrument

The Technical Assistance loan for EUR 1.3 million (US$ 1.5 million equivalent) would finance
primarily techcal assistance and training, including stakeholder workshops, consultations, etc., a
limitednumber o f small goods, and operating costs.

2. ProgramObjectivesandPhases

T h ~ swould be the second TA project to be funded under the EU8 "Social and Institutional
Development and Economic Management T e c h c a l Assistance Program (SIDEM) for Eligible
Members o f the European Union (APL)". The broadobjective o f SIDEM AF'L i s to assist the eligible
 countries o f the EU to achieve real convergence withn the EU as rapidly as possible while at the
 same time building the capacity o f these countries to exert an increasing and positive influence on
regional and global policies both through their role in the EU and, over time, as increasingly
 important providers o f expertise and donor assistance themselves. The specific overall objective o f
the APL is to help promote social and institutional development and economic management in
 eligible EU member countries. The Leader Preparation Technical Assistance Project is consistent
 with the above objectives.

 3. ProjectDevelopmentObjective andKey Indicators

 The objective o f the project i s to assist the Ministry o f Agnculture o f the Slovak Republic and its
 subordinate organizations, as well as local governments, communities and civil society organizations,
 to develop their capacity to prepare for and implement the EU Leader axis inthe period 2007-2013.
 Key Indicators are contained in Annex 3.


                                                  -2-

4. Project Components

The project has four components. Detailed Componentdescriptions are contained in Annex 4.

Component1:Creationof Policy andAdministrative FrameworkKJS$475,000)

The objective o f t h s component i s to create the framework for policy-malung processes and
administrative decision-making within MOA,and between the MOAand its associated national and
local level institutions, municipalities (and other local governmental structures), and communities.
The component wouldprovide technical assistance to:

0)        define the appropriate level o f delegation of decision makingpower underthe Leader Axis,
          (e.g. level of decentralization of authority for project selection, control, monitoring, etc);
(ii)      assess the capacities o f local- and regional-level administrative authorities , specifically
          their capacities to implement the Leader approach; and provide recommendations on
          developingtheir capacity to requisite levels;
(iii)     propose the most suitable co-financing systemwithn the new Leader Axis;
(iv)      assist national and local authorities to prepare all initial strategic documents needed for
          implementation o f the Leader axis, with specific reference to proposals for the `checklist'
          for the APA;
(4        develop criteria for selection o f the Local Action Groups (LAGs) to be eligible for fimding
          underthe Leader Axis;
(vi)      develop "Guidelines for Local Strategy Development" and "Guidelines for LAG
          operations", and
(vii)     based on the foregoing analyses and recommendations, build the technical capacity
          (through focused training) in MOA,APA and local institutions so that they will be able to
          implementthe newLeader axis effectively.

This component also includes operating costs, limited IT equipment, project audit, and contingencies.

Component2: Mapping(US$ 70.000). Inorder to properly target the regions o f the country which
are most suitable for implementation o f Leader axis projects, it i s necessary for MOA (as the
Managing Authority) to have as much detail as possible about individual micro-regions. To this end,
the main goal of this component is to create a specialized map of the rural areas in the Slovak
Republic, with specific delineation o f possible micro-regions which could be eligble for inclusion in
the Leader Axis, according to the relevant criteria from the EU. The mapping will also help the
municipalities indefiningthe opportunities for cooperation among themselves.

The maintasks under the component are to:
(1)          undertake analysis o f completed and/or ongoing studies on rural areas in the Slovak
             Republic, usingexisting data to determine the main development priorities andneeds o f
             rural regons from the Leader perspective (many previous studies exist, but none o f them
             focuses on t h s aspect); and
(ii)         based on the above, develop a tailored map of Slovak rural areas which would be most
             suitable for implementation o f the Leader approach.

Component 3: Formation and TraininP of Local Action Groups, and Implementationof Pilot
Projects (US$ 880.000). In all countries implementing the Leader approach, while the Managmg
Authority retains overall control o f the program, a "Local Action Group" (LAG) is the administrative
unit ultimately responsible for implementing Leader projects. According to EUregulations, a LAG
should represent no more than 100,000 and not less than 10,000 persons. The LAGs' responsibilities
include project screening and approval, monitoring(both physical and impact), payments, etc.

At present, there are no formal LAGs constitutedinSlovalua. As a result of TA financedby EUpre-
Accession fimds, 11 `working groups' from different micro-regions across the country have received
training and assistance with local development planformation. Underthe proposed Project, techmcal

                                                  -3-

assistance is foreseen to be provided to selected groups, as some o f them are far enough along intheir
development that they could ultimately become fully functioning LAGs.

Inaddition, based on the mapping, the project will provide TA inall eligible areas of the country, to
form, in total, at least 10-12 fully functioning LAGs by the end o f 2006.            At that time, the
Government will undertake a formal "Call for Proposals" from all legally regstered LAGs. The
allocation o f funding to the LAGs will be made according to these proposals, based on quantitative
criteria developed inComponent 1.

In addition to forming and training the LAGs, the other core objective of this component is to
undertake a number of pilot projects utilizing the Leader approach in at least three regions. The
pilots will enable MOAauthorities to gain practical experience with this new rural development
approach prior to full implementation in 2007-2013.         It is likely that the pilot projects will be
undertaken inpartnershp with some o f the above-mentioned working groups, as they will be the first
LAGSwiththe capacity to undertake projects.

Component 4: Creation of National Rural Network cUS%75,000). For the 2007-2013 period (and
for the longer-term future as well), Slovakia needs to have a formal `National Rural Network', to
serve as the Leader Contact Point and rural information and data collection center for the country. It
is foreseen that the lead organization for the new Network will be the Agency for Rural Development
(ARVI). ARVI is a budgetary agency o f MOA,tasked with supporting a broad range of rural
development activities throughout the country. In addition to ARVI, the "Rural Parliament", an
NGO, is very active inrural areas, advocating for increased attention to rural issues. Besides these
two main actors, there are numerous other small organizations, andprojects from other sources, active
inSlovalua's rural space.

Inthe context of the implementation of the Leader Axis, thegoal of this component is to create the
framework for the National Rural Network in the Slovak Republic. Inthe short-term, the Bank will
provide expertise to assist ARVI to develop its vision for the future, including strategic directions and
mission statements, staffing plans, budgets, etc.       This direct support to ARVI is appropriate,
considering the project's focus on Leader, and the MOA'Sdecision that ARVI will have the primary
responsibility for Leader inthe future. Technical assistance will be provided to MOAto undertake a
broader assessment o f the all rural actors, responsible authoritiedpersons, and administrative
requirements necessary to make the Network hnctional, and manage its operations.

5.       Lessons Learned and Reflected inProject Design

During the last four years, the Bank and the Government have collaborated extremely well on
agricultural policy dialogue and sector studies to prepare for EUAccession. The analytical work has
provided the underpinnings for project design w h c h is aimed at meeting the challenges facing policy-
makers and rural inhabitants as detailed in the publication, "Food and Agnculture in the Slovak
Republic - the Challenges o f EUAccession" (February 2003), and the "Study on Market Linkages in
 Slovaluan Agnculture" (VUEPP Study, with Bank assistance, to be published in February 2006).
Duringimplementation, the recommendations of a study on Slovakia's policy options under the new
CAP will informthe priorities for capacity buildingand training.

On the ago-environment side, the lessons learned from the "Central European Grasslands
Conservation and Management Project" (GEF Medium-sized Project (MSP)) provide important
insights into new opportunities for rural inhabitants w h c h are incorporatedinthe project design.

The recently completed Living Standards Assessment (LSA), and its various modules including an
 analysis o f labor market vulnerability, the poverty and social impact o f tax reforms, the poverty
profile, and socioeconomic mapping will inform the project as implementation progresses.

The project design also draws on the experience o f the Human Capital TA Project (HCTA) (2005),
implemented by the Ministry o f Education, and the Ministry o f Labor, Social Affairs, and Family.

                                                 -4-

The Project also draws on the experience o f the Public Finance Management Project (2003) and the
Health Sector Modernization Project (2004), both o f which have capacity buildingcomponents.

Broad lessons learned to-date from these and other capacity buildingprojects indicate the following
preconditions for successful technical assistance: (i)  strong project ownership in the implementing
Ministries and other participating institutions; (ii)understanding o f the rationale for the changes
supported by the project; and (iii)clear goals w h c h are communicated consistently to all relevant
stakeholders. These lessons are incorporated inthe design o f the project.

6.        Alternatives Consideredand Reasonsfor Rejection

The project responds to a Government request for a Technical Assistance loan specifically for the
purpose. No other alternatives were considered. Prior to this request, the Government had proposed
a more modest sector study, to address constraints to growth in rural areas. It was subsequently
decided in early 2005 that this study would not be sufficient to meet their needs, and therefore this
new project was requested.

C.        IMPLEMENTATION

1.PartnershipArrangements

The Bank is actively engaged with the Leader Observatory in Brussels: with which the MOA
counterparts also have a strong working relationship.

The Government o f Switzerland has indicated their interest in supporting the project, likely through
additional bilateral resources for pilot projects.     %le   it will not be possible to finalize any
cofinancing agreements prior to Bank approval, the project teams at the Bank and MOAwill be
actively engaged with the Swiss authorities in an effort to leverage this funding in the first year of
implementation.

2. InstitutionalandImplementation Arrangements

The duration o f the project i s two years, with completion expected at end-December 2007. The
Project will be implemented by the Ministry o f Agriculture o f the Slovak Republic (MOA). The
Project will not establish an implementation unit outside o f MOA. Rather, coordination o f project
implementation shall be carried out by a Project Team (PT), established within the MOA. The PT
shall consist o f a Project Director, who will have primary responsibility for day-to-day operations o f
the Project. To assist the Director, a Project Deputy Director and Procurement Specialist will be
appointed by MOA.Inaddition, to ensure proper conduct o f the financial management aspects o f the
project, two additional persons will assist the core team:

          one staff member from the Budgetary and Closing Account Department within MOA
          (Financial Manager), who will closely cooperate with the Project Deputy Director on
          financial issues; and

          one staff member from the Agricultural Paying Agency (MA Coordinator) who will
          cooperate on project-related payingand monitoringissues.

Inaddition to the core staff of the Project Team, a `Worlung Group' of key technical professionals
w i t h n MOAand its associated agencies has been constituted to assist with project implementation.
This Working Group i s not a formal body, but rather will meet on an ad hoc basis, as needed by the
Project Director, to assist the PT with major tasks (such as.development o f criteria, development of
guidelines and strategies, etc.).

A Steering Committee for Leader Axis has been established within MOA.The Steering Committee
will have responsibility for ensuring the efficient and effective implementation o f the Leader

                                                 -5-

approach throughout Slovakia. In addition to t h s broad longer-term role, the Steering Committee
will provide targeted guidance for the LPTA.

The Project Director, Deputy Director and the Procurement Specialist will work closely with each
other and the members o f the Workmg Group, and Steering Committee for Leader axis, as well as
other governmental staff involved inthe project to ensure its proper implementation.

The implementation arrangements for the Pilots under Component 3 will be developed as a
part of this Project and subject to the review and approval by the World Bank prior to the
commencementof this component. The Project Team will prepare the overall Operational Manual
and template for financing agreements with Local Action Groups in compliance with EU
requirements for the Leader axis inorder to be ready to absorb EUfunding.

For full details o f the implementation arrangements, including brief descriptions o f duties, and a
project organigram, please see Annex 6.

3. MonitoringandEvaluation Outcomes/Results

Project monitoring will be ensured through supervision, progress reports, expert assessments, and
studies. A key project objective i s to provide technical assistance for capacity building at the local
level inorder to ensure requisite capacity for implementation o f the Leader approach. The project will
also assist MOAto establish systems, procedures and capacity to ensure efficient implementation o f
Leader Axis.

A detailed description of outcomes andindicatorsto beusedcanbe foundinAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

The project design i s based on the detailed proposal o f the Borrower for assistance to develop their
capacity to manage the Leader axis funding during the next EUprogramming period from 2007-13.
This includes evaluation o f the rural policy preparation process and development of further strategies
to implement innovative rural development approaches through Leader.

Inadditiontothecapacitybuilding, akeypart oftheprojectwillbethe establishment offundamental
conditions for operation o f the Leader Axis. T h s includes processes andprocedures for central MOA
authorities, local governments, and the Local Action Groups (LAGS)themselves. Further, the project
will provide a number o f assessments which will contribute to developing further strategies for
effective implementation o f future "bottom-up" types o frural investments.

From a practical standpoint, diversification o f rural livelihoods - at least through EU funding
instruments   -will increasingly rely on the Leader approach. Therefore, assuming that the above-
mentioned capacity development i s acheved, and the procedural guidelines provide comprehensive
and straightfonvard guidance on preparation and implementation o f projects under the Leader axis,
the long-term sustainability o f the project is highly likely.

From a purely financial standpoint, the loan o f EUR 1.3 million is expected to prepare the ground for
at least EUR 50 million in funding through the new Leader Axis for rural livelhood diversification
projects. Assuming that even half o f this funding materializes, the financial sustainability appears
very good. It i s also noted that the loan will not provide any incremental resources to the MOA,the
project will be financed from MOA'Sexisting budget.

5. CriticalRisks

The overall risk rating for the project is low. The main risk o f the project is the possibility that the
benefits will not be distributed equally to all bodies involved, e.g. that some agencies may utilize
capacity building opportunities more than others. This might dilute the long term national policy

                                                  -6-

capacity buildingaims o f the project. Inorder to minimize this risk, the project will explicitly seek to
ensure wide coverage o f the provided services andwide participationo f all bodies involved.

There is also a risk that some regions which have traditionally been more developed would receive
greater attention than others. To mitigate this risk, at least one `less-favored' region will be targeted
to undertake the pilot projects under Component 3.

Though the environmental risk from the Bank loan is low, there is the possibility that downstream
projects funded under the Leader Axis will contain some environmental or social risks. This is
outside the scope o f the project. However, Slovakia's systems for environmental assessment and
mitigation are considered to be in line with EU policies. Assuming therefore that any downstream
projects are subject to Slovak guidelines, the risks should be manageable.

6. LoanConditionsand Covenants

Covenants agreed duringNegotiations:

        The Borrower, through MOA,shall review with the Bank, by February 15,2007, or such date
        as the Bank shall request, a Mid-Term Review report prepared by the Borrower on the basis
        o f the Monitoring and Evaluation indicators, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
        ensure the efficient completion o f the Project.

        Until the Project i s entirely completed the Borrower, through the MOA,shall maintain a
        Steering Committee, with a composition and under terms o f reference satisfactory to the
        Bank, with particular consideration of the extension of its advisory role to include technical
        advice to the Project Team duringproject implementation.

        Until the Project is entirely completed the Borrower, through the MOA,shall maintain a
        Working Group o f key techmcal professionals within the MOA and its associated agencies to
        assist with Project implementation. . The Workmg Group shall meet on an ad hoc basis, as
        determined by the Project Director, to assist the Project Team with major tasks, including,
        among others, development o f criteria for LAGs' selection and guidelines and strategies for
        LAGs' operations.

        The Borrower, through MOA,shall ensure that adequate arrangements satisfactory to the
        Bankare maintained throughout Project implementation and all involvedbodies to carry out
        the fiduciary functions (procurement and financial management) necessary under the Project.

        The Borrower, through the MOA, shall take all action required to ensure that: (i)the
        Operational Manual is applied and followed at all times inthe implementation, procurement,
        monitoring and evaluation o f the LAG training and Pilot Projects; (ii)Pilot Projects are
        selected in accordance with the criteria therein set forth; and (iii)  except as the Bank shall
        otherwise agree, the MOA do not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual
        or any provision thereof.

        For the purposes o f ensuring the successful implementation and monitoring o f the Pilot
        Projects, the Borrower, through the MOA shall conclude with each LAG eligble under the
        Project, a Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Bank w h c h shall set forth the conditions
        and modalities for: (i) transferring to the relevant LAG a portion o f the Loan proceeds on a
        grant basis for the purposes o f financing part or the total cost o f goods, works and services
        required for the Pilot Project; and (ii) carrying out and monitoring the implementation o f the
        Pilot Projects.




                                                  -7-

Condition o f Effectiveness

The appointment o f the Project Director and Deputy Director with qualifications and under Terms of
Reference satisfactory to the Bank.

Condition o f Disbursement for Pilot Projects

        N o withdrawals shall be made in respect o f Pilot Projects, until and unless the Bank shall
have received appropriate evidence that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
-1.  Economic and FinancialAnalysis

N.A

- Technical
2.

N.A

-
3. Fiduciary

The financial management assessment was performed in July 2005 during the project's appraisal.
The proposed financial management arrangements of the project are acceptable to the World
Bank.

Strengths & Weaknesses. The strengths o f the project financial management system include the use
to a great extent o f the existing financial accounting and budgetary procedures (including treasury
system), with robust internal control mechanisms, to process payments and record transactions in
MOA. The specific risk identified during the assessment relates to the Pilot Projects Component
which will be implemented by Local Action Groups (LAGs) and funded by grants from MOA,the
financing agreements for which, including control and monitoring procedures are not yet defined.
These financing agreements and related procedures to be included inthe Operational Manual for Pilot
Projects project will be developed as a part o f the Project to help prepare Slovalua to absorb available
EUfunds within Leader Axis. Ths risk will be mitigatedby the requirement to prepare and submit
to the World Bank for review and approval financial sections included in templates o f financing
agreements between MOAand LAG and the Operational Manual for the Implementation o f Leader
axis Pilot Projects, which shall be also in compliance with EUrespective requirements.

Funds Flow. The Project will not maintain a foreign currency Special Account. The loan funds will
be disbursed to reimburse eligible expenditures already incurred. Counterpart funding is not required
under this project since the loan will cover 100% o f the expenditures. However if any g o v e m e n t
funds are used for this project inparallel they will be accessedthrough the state budget systemandno
separate bank account will be opened for this purpose.

The World Bank will disburse loan proceeds to reimburse the Government for grant funds for the
pilot projects providedby MOAto the final beneficiaries supported byLAGs on the basis o f financing
agreements satisfactory to the Government andthe Bank.

Since all project transactions will be accounted for in MOA,the project will use report-based
disbursement, i.e. for reimbursement purposes the MOA will provide summary statement o f
expenditures with project expenditures by categories inaggregated form (part o f FMh) based on the
data from the assigned analytical code. Due to the fact that the report-based disbursement will be
utilized for the first time inSlovalua under this project the aggregate reportsshould be supported with


                                                  -8-

the printouts from the accounting system. Due the constraints o f the Slovak Budget law, the project
will not disburse usingdirect payments, special commitments or a special Account.

F o r details of the Financial Management and disbursement arrangements, please see Annex 7.

Procurement. Procurement is assessed as a low risk due to the limited number o f relatively small
value contracts. Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004,
andthe provisions stipulatedinthe Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated
costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated from time to time according to the actual
project implementation needs

Due to the relatively limited number o f contracts, the majority o f the procurement activities will be
undertaken by the Project Director, Deputy Director and Procurement Specialist, with the cooperation
o f the fiduciary staff listed above.

For details of theprocurement arrangements,please seeAnnex 8.

4. Social

The project i s consistent with the World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy with the Slovak
Republic. Addressing the capacity building needs o f local governments and other rural actors in a
participatory and bottom up manner i s an important contribution to the strengthening o f sustainable
development policies and governance in Slovalua.        It is noted that the Involuntary Resettlement
Safeguard is not triggered.

The Bank's review o f social aspects identified a number o f issues which will need to be addressed
during implementation. These include: (i) need to identify means for transparently allocating
                                               the
resources across the country and in particular to under-performing areas o f the country; (ii)       the
importance o f ensuring that capacity buildingactivities include a broad range o f stakeholders and are
participatory; (iii)the necessity for the technical assistance under the project to address issues o f
social diversity and elite capture; (iv) the need to define how local action groups (LAGs) will be
formed; (v) proper design o f participatory monitoringandevaluationframeworks; and(vi) the needto
address Roma issues.

Measures to address most o f the above issues are explicitly built into the project. This is particularly
the case with the formation o f LAGs, focus on capacity buildingfor a broad stakeholder community,
TA targeting, and allocation o fresources. LAGformation, includmg guidelines for operations which
specify inclusive measures for representation withm the LAG, are key outputs o f Component 1.
Capacity building will focus not only on central and regonal governmental structures, but also on
municipalities, village-level stakeholders, and civil society organizations. The pilot projects under
Component 3 are specifically orientedtowards traditionally "less favored areas".

The project does not have a specific Roma focus. There will however be LAG formatiodtraining
efforts, as well as pilot projects, in areas where there are large Roma populations. The project will
make every effort to ensure that Roma representatives are present on the board o f LAGs active in
their local areas.

The overall social risk o f the project is low.




                                                 -9-

5. Environment

No infrastructure rehabilitation or improvements will be financed under the loan and therefore
environmental category C will be applied for thls project.

6. SafeguardPolicies

No safeguard policies are triggered by the Project. Advice provided through the technical assistance
will be inconformity with Bankpolicies andapplicable Slovak environmental regulations.

7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness.

The Project does not require any exceptions from Bankpolicies. It will be ready for implementation
immediately following Effectiveness.




                                              -10-

                              Annex 1:Country and Sector Background

 SLOVAKREPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


Recent Economic Developments

InNovember 2005, Slovalua entered E m 2 with a plan to adopt euro inJanuary 2009. While the
country already fulfills two o f four main Maastricht criteria (namely, the long-term interest rates and
the public debt ratio), the challenges are to reduce inflation and the fiscal deficit, satisfy the test o f
exchange rate stability under ERM2 and reduce the risk o f an overly strong conversion rate when the
euro is adopted.

The economy has been gathering strength over recent years. Real GDP has risen steadily from 2.0
percent in 2000 to an estimated 5.5 percent in 2005, and growth i s projected to increase firther in
2006-07. Meanwhle, although inflation is abating - average consumer price inflation forecasted at
4.0 percent at end-2005 declined from 5.9 percent at end-2004 - it remains higher than targeted by the
central bank. Ths is mainly because o f the unanticipated increase o f regulated prices in October
2005. Core inflation remains low at 1.0 percent in January-November 2005 yly. After the entry to
ERM2, koruna continued appreciating vis-a-vis euro, reaching the strongest position ever inJanuary
2006. However, the exchange rate i s dnven mainly by developments o f Polish zloty.

Although the current account deficit increasedto an estimated 5.6 percent o f GDP in2005, it remains
well under control. Foreign direct investments have regained their movement upwards, with many
new contracts in the automotive, electronics and engineering sectors, although the levels are still
lower than in2002. The expansion inexports shrank from 18 percent in 1-3q2003 to 12percent in 1-
3q2004 and 9 percent in 1-3q2005; in parallel to 9 percent growth rate o f imports in 1-3q2005. The
negative contribution o f net exports to overall economic growth was caused primarily by the retooling
of the German-owned Volkswagen Slovakia car assembly plant, Slovakia's major exporter, which is
expected to be a temporary occurrence.

Supported by strong revenue performance, the fiscal outcome for 2005 was better than expected. The
2004 consolidated budget deficit (including local budgets and off-budget costs) is estimated at 3.1
percent o f GDP, compared to 3.4 percent envisaged inthe budget - both figures excluding the costs
of pension reform, which will divert a portion o f payroll taxes from the state-run pay-as-you-go
scheme to private accounts (adjusted for pension reform, however, the projected deficit would be 3.9
percent o f GDP). The 2006-08 budget framework envisages a further decline inthe deficit (excluding
the cost ofpensionreform) to 2.9 percent o fGDPin2006 and 1.6percent ofGDP in2007, consistent
with euro adoption in2009. However, tighter fiscal policy would be needed to support the disinflation
goal.

As a result o f rapid GDP growth, the third quarter o f 2005 reported a 7.6 percent real wage growth,
following a 2.5 percent growth in 2004 and a 2.0 percent decline in 2003 (year-on-year). However,
wages still remain much lower than in some other Visegrad countries: hourly labor costs in 2004
expressed as percentage o f the European Union average (EU15=100) were 22 inthe Czech Republic,
21 in Hungary, and only 17 in Slovakia and Poland. The increase in wage was highest in the public
sector, real estates, restaurants and hotels, trade and financial services (all above 10percent nominal
growth YIY).

High unemployment remains a concern however, particularly among low-skilled labor.
Internationally comparable unemployment rate, although declining, stood at 15.6 percent in 3q2005,
higher than in any other EU8 country, but Poland. Much loser is the registered unemployment rate,
which declined to 10.9 percent in November 2005, down from the reported 16.6 percent in January
2004. Recent reforms, w h c h resulted in a major improvement o f the business environment and
increased labor market flexibility, attracted foreign investment. Seasonally adjusted figures seem to
indicate that the latter is starting to generate employment since the third quarter o f 2004. N e w jobs

                                                 -11-

have been generated especially inthe western part o f the country. Regional disparities remain deep,
mainly because o f poor transport infrastructure, with the regstered unemployment rate at just 2.8
percent in the capital, Bratislava region, but approaching 28 percent in the two poorest districts
located in central-south Slovakia in November 2005. Meanwhile, the duration o f unemployment
continues to rise.

Populationand Administrative Structure

In2004, thetotalpopulationwas 5.385 million, withanaveragepopulationdensityof 109.8residents
per square km.' Besides the Slovak majority (85.8%), there are important Hungarian and Roma
minorities.

The Slovak Republic is divided into 8 regions, 79 districts and 2,883 municipalities (see Table). Of
these:

     0    2,241 municipalities are considered to be rural municipalities, representing 77.7% o f the total
          number o f municipalities and 76.7% o f the total area o f the country. 1,609,738 inhabitants
          live in these rural municipalities, equivalent to 29.8% of the total population (incomparison
          with 22.3 % inthe Czech Republic).



                         Unit                        Number                       Regionalunit

                       NUTS I                            1                           Slovakia
                       NUTS I1                           4                       Bratislavaregion
                                                                                Western Slovakia
                                                                                 Central Slovakia
                                                                                 Eastern Slovakia
                       NUTS I11                                                regions o f Slovakia
                       NUTS IV                                                 districts o f Slovakia
                       NUTS V                          2,883

  RuralDeveloumentandthe EU

 The current EU rural developmentpolicy, implemented in Slovakia since the 2004 accession to the
EU, runs until end-2006. The Common Agcultural Policy (CAP) evolved significantly duringthe
 90s, shifting gradually in favor o f the reinforcement o f rural development measures. Several CAP
reform agreements, notably those o f March 1999 known as the "Agenda 2000 CAP reform" and the
reforms o f June 2003 have marked this change o f emphasis.                     The strengthening o f EU rural
 development has become an overall EUpriority. The conclusions o f the Goteborg European Council
 o f June 2001 made this clear: `During recent years, European agricultural policy has given less
 emphasis to market mechanisms and through targeted support measures become more oriented
 towards satisfying the general public's demands regarding food safety, food quality, product
 differentiation,   animal welfare, environmental quality and the conservation o f nature and the
 countryside.'    A major overall aim of these reforms was to provide better balance in support and to
 strengthen rural development by transferring funds from the first to the second pillar o f the CAP via
 the introduction o f an EU-wide system o f modulation2, and by expanding the scope o f current rural
 development instruments.




 *
 ' See Statistical Office o f the Slovak Republic, regional data, www.statistics.sk.
   Modulation is a mechanism by which EU farm spending is transferred from market-related support payments
 to rural development policy measures.
                                                       -12-

                                     Box: The "Pillars" of the EUCAP
 EU spending on agriculture is made through the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
 (EAGGF). There are two mainareas (so-called'Pillars') of agriculturalexpenditures.

 Market and incomesupport (Pillar 1)
 Market and income support measures covering direct payments to farmers and market-related subsidies
 under the common market organizations such as buying of products into public storage, surplus disposal
 schemes, and export subsidies.Until now, income support and, to a lesser extent, market support have been
 the major areas of CAP expenditure.However, this is gradually changing as the CAP evolves. Fundingfor
 Pillar 1measures comes from the EAGGFGuarantee section.

 Rural development(Pillar 2)
 The increasingly important rural development measures aim at encouraging environmental services,
 providing assistance to difficult farming areas, promoting food quality, higher standards, and animal
 welfare, and supporting the wider economic development and diversificationof rural areas throughout the
 EU. These measures are jointly funded (co-financed) by the EU andby Member States. The new system of
 compulsory modulation (Le. switching of funds from production to rural development) will be used to
 finance the introductionof the new rural development measures agreed in the June 2003 CAP reform (see
 Box 3.3), or to reinforceexistingmeasures.

 The majority o f expenditure for rural development measures is funded by the EAGGF Guarantee section,
 though a significant part comes from the Guidance section. The Guidance section is one of four European
  StructuralFunds that aim to assist regions that lag behind in their development, including rural areas. The
 other structural funds are the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund
  (ESF) and the FinancialInstrument for FisheriesGuidance(FIFG).



Starting in 2007, a new Rural Development Policy will be established, coinciding with the next
programming period 2007-2013. Two new EU regulations help define the future of the EU rural
development policy; the first regulationestablishes a new financing framework for the CAP through
two new funds, the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF), and the
European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD); the second provides the regulations
for the implementationof the EAFRD. One objective ofthe reformis to simplifythe implementation
o fthe ruraldevelopmentpolicy by movingfrom 5 types of programmingand3 financialmanagement
and control systems to a single funding, programming, financial management and control framework
for ruraldevelopment.

The newruraldevelopmentpolicy (2007-2013) would pursuethree core objectives:
   i.Improvingthecompetitivenessofthefarmandforestrysectorthroughsupportforrestructuring,
      developmentandinnovation;
  ii.Improvingtheenvironmentandthecountrysidethroughsupportforlandmanagement;and
 iii.Improvingthequalityoflifeandencouragingthediversificationofeconomicactivitiesinrural
      areas;
and these core objectives would be supported by four axis, each involving a series of individual
measures:
   i.Competitivenessofthefarmandforestrysector;
  ii.Environmentalandlandmanagement;
 iii.Widerruraldevelopmentonandoffthefarm;and
 iv. LeaderAxis.

The Leader program has been one of the four Community initiatives financed by EU structural
funds, and designedto help rural actors improve the long-term potential of their local region. It is
aimed at encouraging the implementation of integrated, high-quality and original strategies for
sustainabledevelopment. Currently in itsthird generation, the Leader programhas a strong focus on
partnership and networks of exchange of experience. In 1991, Leader Imarked the beginning of a
Leader approachto ruraldevelopmentpolicy, whichis territorially based, integratedandparticipative.
Starting in 1994, Leader I1put the Leader Iapproachto more widespread use, with an emphasis on
the innovative aspects of projects. Leader f, the third generation ofthe Leader programcovering the


                                                   -13-

programmingperiod2000 to 2006, continues its role as a laboratory for the emergence andtestingof
newapproachesto integratedandsustainabledevelopmentthat will influence, complete andreinforce
the EU rural development policy. A distinctive feature of the Leader is the implementation of
bottom-up, integrated development programs for local rural areas, drawn-up and implemented by
broad-based local public-privatepartnerships, called Local Action Groups (LAGs). Duringthe on-
going programming period, the Leader-type actions were optional to new EU member states, and
Slovakia decidednot to implementthe programwhen itjoined the EUin 2004. Starting in2007, the
Leader Axis will become an integral and mandatory part of the EU rural development policy and
funding, and member states will be asked to allocate at least 5% of the available resourcesfrom the
EAFRD for the Leader Axis, on average, over the programming period 2007-2013. For the new
member states, including Slovakia, it is expected that the Leader Axis will be phased in over the
programming period, in order to reach an allocation level of 5% by the end of the programming
period. To qualify for financial support under the EAFRD, LAGs would have to develop integrated,
area-basedlocal development strategies, elaboratedin a bottom-up fashion and partnership between
the public and the private sectors; LAGs would be responsible for the implementation of the
corresponding partnered, local development approach. The financial support granted under the
LeaderAxis would cover the implementationof local development strategies designedto achievethe
objectivesof one or moreofthethree other axis oftheEUruraldevelopmentpolicy.

In terms of programming, Slovakia would have to develop its National Strategy Plan that would
translate and adapt the EUprioritiesfor rural developmentto the specific conditionsprevailinginthe
country, while ensuring the complementarity with the EU Cohesion policy. The National Strategy
Plan, covering the programming period 2007-2013, would be implemented through the rural
development programs identified and prepared by Government of Slovakia. Besides the National
Strategy Plan laying-outthe strategic prioritiesfor ruraldevelopment in Slovakia, the Governmentof
Slovakia would also have to prepare and submit its rural development program through which the
National Strategy Plan would be implemented. Eachrural developmentprogram could be designed
anddefinedeither at the national levelor as a set ofregionalprograms.

The above descriptionofthe sector impliesstrengtheningthe capacity of numerousinstitutionsacross
the country. With particular reference to the Leader Axis under EAFRD, technical assistance (TA)
from bothSlovak andinternational expertswill be requiredinorder to planfor and operationalizethis
new rural development funding mechanism. The SIDEM APL is the appropriate instrument to
provide funding for this TA, considering its objective to assist the eligible countries of the EU to
achieve real convergence within the EU as rapidly as possible while at the same time building the
capacity of these countries to exert an increasing and positive influence on regional and global
policies both through their role in the EU and, over time, as increasingly important providers of
expertiseanddonor assistancethemselves.




                                               -14-

    Annex 2 -Major RelatedBank SupportedActivities inthe Slovak Republic: 2002-2005
 SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


FoodandAgricultureinthe Slovak Republic-The Challengesof EUAccession

        Ths study was prepared as a contribution to a series o f World Bank studies prepared during
2002 for the Slovak Republic with a focus on EU accession issues. The study assesses the readiness
of the sector for EU membershp and identifies critical areas and concerns for further government
attention.

        The preliminary findings o f the study were discussed at a public seminar heldinBratislava in
July 2002, which allowed for a constructive debate on the issues identified inthe study. The seminar
was well attended with over 60 participants, including the senior officials at the Ministry o f
Agnculture as well as representatives o f all major agncultural agencies and farming lobbies in
Slovaha.

Market Linkages inthe Slovak Agro-Food Sector

        Ths study examined key agncultural commodities in the Slovak Republic, and drew
conclusions for policy-makers on the implications o f the clearly increasing vertical coordination in
the market chain. The analytic work was completed in May 2005, and the results were disseminated
inahigh-level workshop inBratislavainJune 2005, where experiences from other New EUMember
States were also presented. The study will be published in both Slovak and English languages in
Autumn2005.

The CAY in Slovakia: Experience since Accession and Impact Evaluation of Future Policy
Choices

        The World Bank will provide technical assistance inresponse to a request o f the Ministryo f
Agriculture for an evaluation of the policy options for Slovaha under the new CAP regme, as well as
an evaluation o f the likely impacts o f expected changes inthe system. Ths evaluation will describe
the positive and negative aspects o f a number o f different CAP configurations, to assist MOApolicy-
makers intheir deliberations for the implementation o f the reformed CAP.




                                                -15-

                                    Annex3: ResultsFramework
   SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT




PDO                          ProjectOutcomeIndicators                   Use ofProjectOutcome
                                                                        Information
To assist the Ministry o f   PermanentInstitutional capacity for policy
Agriculture o f the Slovak   nalungofLeader Axis inMOA,andother         Guidance on long-term rural
Republic and its             localbodies involved.                      development strategic
subordinate organizations,                                              Planning
as well as local             Systemfor Leader Axis implementation
governments, communities xepared andtested successfully                 Adjustments as neededto the
and civil society                                                       implementationmodalities o f
organizations, to develop    Positive ex ante evaluationo f the Leader  the Leader Axis
their capacity to prepare for 4xis oneconomic andsocial development
and implement the EU          inruralareas,basedonindependent
Leader Axis inthe period      :valuation (EC requirement)
2007-2013.

                              IntermediateOutcomeIndicators            IUse ofIntermediate
~~~
IntermediateOutcomes                                                    OutcomeMonitoring

Component 1:                  Component1                                IComponent1

StafYofMOA andits             Proceduresandguidelines for the Leader     LAGSusingthebudget
subordinate organizations,    Axis submittedto the EC                    allocationto implement local
and o flocal level                                                       strategies
institutions have the         Newlytrained staff are inpost and
capacity to develop efficient contributingto implementation inMOA,       Adjustment as neededofthe
system o f implementing       APA andlocallevel institutions             cofinancing arrangements
Leader Axis
                              National andlocal government cofinancing   Revise as neededthe training
                              requirements reflectedinrespective budget  program andmethodology
                              documents

                              Independent evaluationo ftrainingprovided
                              (Project requirement)


 Component 2:                 Component 2:                               Component 2:

 Geographc andthematic        Ruraldevelopment programspecdies           Ongoingtargeting ofareas for
  focus o fLeaderAXIs         geographc andthematic focus for Leader     LeaderAXIs implementation
 defined                      Axis, andsubmitted to EC
                                                                         Inputto ongoingevaluation,
                                                                         as requestedbyEC




                                                -16-

:omponent 3:                Component3                                 Component3:

jational training program   Pilot Projects operatingeffectively,       ReviseMOAstrategy for
or potential LAGs           including procurement, financial           LeaderAxis implementation,
mplemented                  management, reporting andcontrol, and      including adrmnistrative
                            achievingplanned sub-project outputs (as   proceduresand guidelines, as
                            measuredby SK government andProject        needed
,oca1 Action Groups         :valuations)
uccessfiilly implement pilot                                           RevisetimingofRequestfor
lrojects                    Expressiono f Interest for LAGselection    ProposalsifLAGSneedmore
                            yields quality proposals fiom at least 8   time toprepare quality
                            LAGs                                       proposals

                            Independentevaluation o ftrainingprovided  Reviseas neededthe training
                                                                       programandmethodology

                                                                       Inputto ongoingevaluation, as
                                                                       requestedbyEC


lomponent4:                 Component4:                                Component4:

Jational Rural Network      Networkoperating effectively, as measuredby Continualupdatesto operating
stablished                  number o frequestsfor services fiom LAGS,  procedures o fthe network
                            andnational andlocal-level governments, and
                            otherruralactors

                            Participation ininternationalnetworks




                                               -17-

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription

  SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


The project is designed to capitalize on Slovalua's previous rural capacity building activities, partly
undertaken utilizing t e c h c a l assistance from pre-accession instruments.      Most importantly, the
project will develop the methodologies for central and local level authorities to manage the overall
Leader Axis. In addition, and also crucial, tasks in the project components will assist Slovakia to
develop functional `Local Action Groups' (LAGs), provide guidelines for their operations, and
undertake pilot projects to test the system.

Component1:CreationofPolicy andAdministrative Framework(US%475,000)

Subcomponent1.1:Creationofpolicy framework (US$130,000)

The purpose o f this subcomponent is to specify basic rules for the coordination o f policy malung and
the design and implementation o f future projects at the MOAand its subordinate organizations. It will
clarify the issues that are necessary for successful coordination andmanagement o f the overall Leader
approach. It i s critically important that the rules for management, and the methods for decision-
making, are set out very clearly and carefully.

Task 1.1.1:Definition o f the level o f decentralization related to delegation o f decision-makine; power,
including proiect approval (the selection process). as well as control and monitoring;.

The aim o f this task is to: (a) determine the appropriate system for managing the Leader AXIS,
including setting mechanisms for central and local administration; and (b) specify which control and
monitoring mechanism is the most suitable for the Slovak Republic. A critical element o f determining
the proper functioning o f the system will be definingthe level o f decentralization o f decision-makmg
power for the Leader Axis, Le.., whether the central authorities will maintain control o f project
selection, or whether the LAGs will have such responsibility.         All basic questions of policy and
administration should be clarified, e.g., who will have the overall responsibility for selecting projects
to be funded through the LAGs; who will have responsibility for the financial issues; what are the
optimal arrangements for project supervision and monitoring, etc.

The Principal Outputfrom this Task will be a study. Consultant services will be provided to analyze
the overall institutional arrangements and information flows necessary for rural policy making and
implementation among the Ministry and its subordinate organizations, in the context o f the Leader
Axis. The study will define the needs o f the Ministry, as well as the needs o f the LAGs, the APA, and
any other involved institutions, from the public and private sectors and civil society (e.g., Agency for
Rural Development, Higher Territorial Units, NGO Rural Parliament). Based on the evaluationo f the
present situation in the Slovak Republic the study will recommend the most suitable system o f
admmistration and management.

Task 1.1.2:Definition o f the most suitable co-financing system within new Leader axis related to the
Slovak conditions. For this task, regional and local municipalities will be involved.

The main objective of this task is to determine the most suitable system o f co-financing involving all
relevant participants.    To acheve this, consultant services will be provided to determine whch
authorities will participate inthe Leader Axis andto what extent they will contribute financially. This
Task is directly related to Task I above. Recommendationsfor the management and control aspects
enumerated in Task 1will have to take account of theproposed co--namingarrangements.

T o define the optimal co-financing    arrangements, the project team will be guided by the experience
gained during 2005 on study tours to Finland, Germany, the Czech Republic, and Great Britain.


                                                 -18-

Duringthese tours, project staff inthe Ministry obtained numerous models that could be adaptedto
Slovak conditions.

Subcomponent 1.2: Creation of Administrative Capacity Framework and Technical Capacity
Building(US$130,000)

The objective o f this sub-component is to develop capacity in the MOAand APA, as well as in the
network o f participating institutions to produce high-quality outputs inrelation to the Leader Axis in
the next progranlmingperiod.

Task 1.2.1: Buildingtechnical capacity in the Ministry o f Auiculture and APA to prepare a general
strategy and guidelines for LAGs on how to apply for implementation o f Leader Axis under EAFRD
over the 2007-2013 period.

This component will provide training and consultant services to develop effective mechanisms for
improvingpolicy malung inthe mainbodies responsible for the Leader Axis. Since the Leader+ type
actions have not beenimplementedin the current programming period (2004-2006), civil servants in
the MOAand M A have little practical experience inthis field. Training and consultant services are
crucial to improving their capacity to implement this new, `bottom-up' development approach.
Technical capacity will be provided through a number o f international and national experts to be
selected through the open tender procedure or direct contracting. General strategic documents, as one
o f the indirect outputs of these trainings, will represent the main background documents for
implementing the Leader Axis. Details on timing and number of participants for each training or
consultant sessionwill compose apart of the terms o f reference for each tender procedure.

Task 1.2.2: Building techcal capacity inthe regional and local level authorities (municipalities, VfJC
-"Higher territorialdistricts") toassistthemto createnecessarystructuresforimplementationofthe
Leader axis innew proaammingperiod.

Local governments will form an integral part of the Leader Axis for implementation. Their
involvement and effective action i s a pre-condition for the effective implementation of the whole
process. Local level authorities need to strengthen their understanding and capacities for the bottom-
up approach of the Leader Axis. The training will also gwe the local authorities new slulls to allow
effective collaborationwith localrural actors (Local Action Groups).

The primary output ofthis task will be acore group ofproperly trained regional andlocal authorities.

Subcomponent1.3: Administrative andODerationalGuidelinesand Strategies-(US$lOS,OOO)

Inthe forthcoming programperiod, 2007-2013, eachmember state will needto prepare one national
rural strategy that covers all aspects of rural development. Guidelines for implementing the Leader
axis will be an important part o f the national strategy.

Task 1.3.1: Assisting national and local authorities in preparing the initial operations manual and
implementation widelines defining the areas in which the program will apply, including preparation
o f all necessary backaound information, criteria definition for 'Local Action Groups' selection. in
accordance with EUrequirements.

For the implementation of the Leader Axis, detailed procedural guidelines are required, both for
formation o f local development strategies by the LAGs, as well as for day-to-day operations. The
guidelines will be the main strategic document to be developed by the MOA(as the so-called
 `Managing Authority') to establish the background and all necessary conditions for LAG operations.
These formal guidelines will also provide the nascent LAGs with a clear set o f rules for formation,
composition, and operations.



                                                  -19-

A second set o f guidelines will be developed to provide necessary informationon Strateges - defining
beneficiaries, scope o f aid, eligible expenditures o f LAGs, rules for co -financing, requirements and
procedures for submitting applications, required annexes within the application, defining share of
responsibility ofbeneficiaries, process o f control, etc.

The PrincipalOutputs from t h s Task will be Manual for LAG Operations, and Guidelines for
Local StrategyDevelopmentto be developed by LAGs.

Task 1.3.2:Develop a proposal o f checklists for the APA, to allow proper monitoring and evaluation
o f Leader-funded projects.

Consultant services will be provided to develop the most suitable checklist for all steps in the Leader
process. The checklists proposed will take into account experience from other countries currently
implementingLeader+.

MOAwill control the activities o fthe LAGs.Ths includes administrative and on-the-spot checks and
controls. I t is also important to verify that the operations are in accordance with the principles o f the
Leader activity.

The MOAas Managing Authority will need to prepare forms for adrmnistrative checks before malung
the decisions on whether or not to support a given sub-project, or to make payments, to ensure that the
required conditions are met. The administrative checks will inspect:
        Inconnection with each project application, that the project beneficiaries meet the conditions
        for granting the support. The check will be carried out on the basis o f the project application
        anddocuments attached to it and other accounts on the matter,
        Inconnectionwitheachpayment application, that the conditions andgrounds forpaymentare
        fulfilled. The check will be carried out on the basis o f the support decision, payment
        application and the attached documents andother accounts on the matter.

Inother member states, the administrative checks also include cross-checks o f the computer system
concerning support by the relevant Managing Authority. The purpose o f the cross-checks is to make
sure that the same project does not receive funding from several aid schemes.

On-the-spot checks. EU legislation requires that the control and checks must usually cover 5% o f the
eligble costs. The purpose o f this check is to ensure that (a) the beneficiary has implemented the
project as set out inthe project decision, (b) the costs presented to be compensated for inthe payment
application are for actual expenditures, and eligible under the statutes, and (c) records have been duly
kept.

Various legislation in other member states allows the control authority to have extensive rights to
inspect matters relating to the granting, payment and use o f support. The beneficiary i s also obliged to
present the necessary documents andto assist incarrying out the inspection.

The experience from other member states will be utilized as much as possible, to ensure that the final
arrangements are inline with best practices, andwill be acceptable to the European Commission.

In addition to the above, Component 1contains the budget for Operating Costs - expenditures incurred
to finance the cost of office supplies, local travel andtransportation (including fuel andper diem),
communications and translation costs, and other minor costs associated with the efficient operation o f
the Project. This component also contains a limitedbudget (US$ 10,000) for IT equipment, budget for
the project audit, and contingencies.




                                                  -20-

Component 2: RIaPpingWS$70,000)

The main goal o f this component is to create a specialized map o frural regions of the Slovak Republic
showing micro-region territories that would be well-suited for the Leader approach, according to EU
criteria, and hence would be the most relevant areas for support by the MOA It will also help the
municipalities indefining their opportunities for cooperation among themselves.

Principal Tusk: Finalize the mapping o f Slovak rural areas, to identifv regions best-suited for Leader
approach, on the basis o f existing studies on Slovalua's rural areas.

Over the past few years, several surveys dealing with rural development in the Slovak Republic were
carried out by different organizations. This task includes collecting most o f those surveys and
mappings o f rural areas already done by ministries, research institutions, universities, etc., and
comparing and evaluating the methods used in these surveys, and the survey outcomes. The data will
then be used to determine the most suitable method o f mapping o f territories for implementing
LEADER approach, defining the most appropriate methodology for determining the needs o f
homogeneous micro-regions, as well as compilation o f the complete data necessary to finalize the
mapping.

Following the above data analysis, a new map will be created, showing the mainneed o f rural regions
from a Leader point o f view. As importantly, the map will delineate homogeneous regions with
population density o f appropriate size for Leader approach according to EU regulations. Beyond
population size, each region will be evaluated to determine its suitability to cooperate in Leader axis
projects. Further, the mapping will identify the most suitable types o f investments inthe regons. The
model for this exercise could be already completedmapping o f the Banska Bystrica region.

The Principal Output from all o f the above activities will be finalization of a specialized map o f
Slovakia, focused on selection o f territories for participation inthe Leader Axis.

Component 3: Formation and Training of Local Action Groups and Implementationof Pilot
Proiects NJS$880,000)

Inall countries implementing the Leader approach, the ManagingAuthority retains some control over
the program, while the adrmnistrative unit ultimately responsible for implementing Leader projects i s
called a "Local Action Group" (LAG). According to EU regulations, a LAG should represent a
population o f no more than 100,000, and not less than 10,000, persons. The LAG must consist o f at
least 50 percent o f private and NGO representatives and must be created as a registered legal
organization.   The LAG is responsible for creating a local development strategy, and subsequent
investment plan.      Importantly, LAGs' responsibilities include project screening and approval,
monitoring (both physical and impact), etc.        While this "bottom up" approach has proven quite
successful in other EU member states, it requires a long period o f training and capacity buildingto
ensure that the LAGs are able to fulfill their responsibilities.

Tusk 3.1: Enhancedtraining. o f LAGs inselectedpilot areas

At present, there are no formal LAGs constituted in Slovalua. As a result of TA from pre-Accession
hnds (the `TA SAF'ARD Team'),           11 `working groups' from different micro-regions across the
country have received training and assistance withlocal development plan formation.

The project will provide technical assistance to selected worlung groups, to follow up anddeepen their
existing knowledge and slulls, and to reorient them for the Leader approach by following the EU
regulations, and to train them for implementing their strategies. It will provide them more information
about EU regulations, examples o f successful projects from abroad, and train them about the
adrmnistrative tasks required o f them within the implementation o f the Leader approach. The training
will be based on organizing seminars, where the worlung groups will be trained by people from
Managing Authority, as well as by foreign and local experts on Leader approach implementation. The

                                                 -21-

trained people will become part of the team o f national experts and they will be later involved in
training people from newly formed LAGs.

Task 3.2: T o form and train uotential new LAGs which will be resuonsible for implementing sub-
proiects under the mom-am.

In order to make maximum use of Leader Axis financing in the new programming period, it is
necessary that Slovakia has a reasonable number o f LAGs w h c h have strong enough capacity to
submit well-prepared project proposals, select appropriate projects, and implement them.            This
training will be focused on people from the new potential LAGs, and will provide them all information
related to the Leader approach - EU regulations, successful projects from abroad, organizational and
adrmnistrative tasks, etc.   The Guidelines for Strategy development and the Guidelines for LAG
Operations, created in Component 1, will be important inputs into this training. The potential new
LAGswill be trained through intensive seminars (led by experts from the Managing Authority and the
national expert team) focused on all aspects o f formation and daily operations o f their LAG, and on
subsequent implementationo f Leader Axis-finded sub-projects.

Task3.3: Develouingthe Local Training Manual for LAGtraining

Before the longer-term training o f potential LAGs can begin, i t is necessary to develop the Local
Training Manual for trainers. The manual will be comprised o f distinct teaching materials to ensure
that   potential Local Action Groups (LAGs) are properly trained to build the public-private
partnerships which will be required for successful implementation o f projects. The manual will be
published and printed for use by trainers as they conduct the trainings.

Task3.4: Pilot the Leader apuroach inthe selected regions.

For the pilot projects, the Managing Authority will select three or four regons that have already
formed local strategies, with functional LAGs. These regions will be from different parts o f Slovalua
so that the Managing Authority can gain different experiences before the start o f the new
programming period. This experience will help to determine possible problems in implementing the
Leader axis.    Based on the existing development strategies in the likely pilot areas, projects are
expected to be based on, inter alia, the following themes: the use o f new technologies to make the
products and services o f rural areas more competitive, w h c h will improve the quality o f life inrural
areas; adding value to local products; malung the best use o f natural and cultural resources; restoration
o f cultural heritage sites; and development o f agro-tourism. In total, each LAG might fund 2 to 3
projects. The costs o f each project will range from approximately EUR 10,000 to 50,000.

ComDonent 4: (uS$75,000) - Creation of National Rural Network

The objective of this component is to create the framework of the National Rural Network in the
Slovak Republic, through a determination of the main rural actors and responsiblepersons functions)
for managing the network. T h s framework will include definition o f the new vision and goals for the
ARVI, their staffing and budget needs, and methods o f cooperation between regional and local
governments, the communication centers, the NGO Rural Parliament and other NGOs, and any other
relevant actors inthe rural space.

"National rural networks," in one form or another, have been established in all member states
implementing the Leader Initiative. These bodies have different names, e.g. "national network unit"
(Denmark), "Village Action Association" (Finland), "Irish Leader Support Unit" (Ireland), etc. They
are sometimes public sector institutions (Ireland), and sometimes private associations and NGOs
(Finland), while some are consortiums o fpublic institutions andprivate consultancy companies (Italy),
and others are hlly private (France). Regardless o f the form, they all have similar functions. The
primary functions o f the national networks are to: (i)collect, analyze and disseminate information at
the national level on rural good practices, from either their own country, or others; (ii)  organize and
manage the operations o f the network itself; (iii) organize exchanges o f experiences and know-how,

                                                 -22-

with particular attention to less-advanced territories o f the country which could benefit from
knowledge gained by more experienced LAGS;and (iv) provide techmcal assistance for local and
transnational cooperation.     These groups also serve an important function in advancing the rural
development agenda through national-level advocacy.

Experience from member States implementing the Leader framework indicates that these national
level bodies are critical for ensuring the success o f the program.         As importantly, from a legal
standpoint, a functional network is required by the EU. As noted, Slovalua has not yet participated in
Leader, and hence, no such network exists.

MOAintends for the Agency for Rural Development (ARVI) to be the basis for the National Rural
Network in Slovalua. ARVI is an agency o f the MOA,which was created to support activities aimed
at sustainable socio- economic development o f rural settlements, creation o fjobs inrural areas, assist
municipalities to prepare and implement programs, plans and projects in the above-mentioned fields,
and to assist agncultural holdings in their activities in rural areas. ARVI is also focused on agro-
tourism and ruraltourism. Inthe next year, ARVI should be reorganized and strengthened inorder to
be prepared to act as the lead organization for the National Rural Network. As with the other member
states' national networks, the main responsibility for ARVI during Leader A x i s implementation will
be to disseminate best practice experiences inthe rural areas to all relevant rural actors. The current
preparedness o f ARVI for t h s key role needs to be assessed. During Autumn 2005, the Bank will
assist with the first phase o f this assessment, by helpingARVI to develop its vision for the future; the
Project will provide additional t e c h c a l assistance to implement this vision during the early stage o f
implementation.

Untilnow, the maincivil society actor has beentheNGO `Rural Parliament'. The RuralParliament is
a voluntary, non-governmental and non-profit organization, whose stated mission i s to improve the
quality o f life in rural Slovakia. The main goals o f this organization are to collect, process and
disseminate information to and from rural areas; formulate collective opinions and advocate for good
rural policies, and encourage experience and knowledge exchange among local developmental civic
groups.

The NGO Rural Parliament has established regional structures in order to provide assistance,
education and networking to rural initiatives. At the local level, the aim is to ensure public-private
partnershps.    Those partnerships consist of municipalities, private business and NGOs, and the
foundation for programming and planning o f rural development at the local level. They are created
according to bottom- upprinciples and are the main target group o f the NGO's activities.

In addition to the ARVI and the Rural Parliament, there are also 30 communication centers whch
were established through the Special preparatory program for Structural funds - priority B - Rural
development. Their main tasks are to ensure information flow to local people, to provide feedback for
regional and national level, and to assist local subjects with creation o f partnershps, programming and
preparation for rural development.

The preparation o f the National Rural Network will need to ensure a close cooperation o f the above
mentionedorganizations, to ensure that experiences gained to-date are captured.




                                                   -23-

                                                  Annex 5: ProjectCosts
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                                          Local Costs
Project Cost by Component                                (US$ million)
  1) Creation       of Policy          Capacity               0.150
 Framework

 2) Mapping                                                    0.07              0.000              0.07

 3) Formation and Training of Local                           0.780              0.100             0.880
 Action Groups and Implementation of
 Pilot Projects

 4) Creation ofNational RuralNetwork                          0.025              0.05              0.075

                                                              1.025
~~
 TotalBaselineCost                                                                                  1.345
 OperatingCosts                                                0.09
  Contingencies                                               0.045                                0.055

                         TotalProject Cost                     1.16              0.34                1.50
                TotalFinancingRequired                         1.16              0.34                1.50
 Note: The Component 1 total shown inthis tablc
  4. Component 1 contains the budget for Operating Costs and Contingencies for an aggregate component total o f US$
  475,000. For the purposes of this table, these cost items are disaggregated.




                                                            -24-

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

  SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


The duration of the project is 24 months, with completion expected at end-December 2007. The
Project will be implemented by the Ministry o f Agriculture o f the Slovak Republic (MOA),as the
implementing body. The Project will not establish an implementation unit outside o f the ministry.
Rather, responsibility for coordination of project implementation as a whole shall be carried out by a
Project Team established within MOA,led by a Project Director. To assist the Director, a Project
Deputy Director and Procurement Specialist will be appointed by the MOA. In addition, to ensure
proper function o f the financial management aspects o f the project, two additional persons will assist
the core team:
         one employee from the Budgetary and Closing Account Department within MOA(Financial
         Manager), who will closely cooperate with Project Deputy Director on financial issues;
         one employee from the APA (APA Coordinator ) who will cooperate o n project relating
         paying andmonitoring issues;

To provide overall guidance for the Leader Axis, as well as assisting with the direction o f the project
as a whole, a Steering Committee for Leader Axis has been established withm MOA(see next page for
details).

The Project Director, Deputy Director and the Procurement Specialist will work closely with each
other and the members o f Steering Committee for Leader Axis and other governmental staff involved
inthe project to ensure itsproper implementation.

The main responsibilities o f the Project Director will be as follows:
Sheke will be responsible for the technical tasks related to the MOApart o f the project, coordinating
the inputs required for public procurement and activities related (terms o f reference, procurement
timetable, setting conditions for consultants, scope o f required services etc); ensuring communication
between the World Bank and MOAand other partners involved. Shehe will also be responsible for
coordinating the preparation o fjoint projects reports andoverall project coordination.

The main task o f Project Deputy Director will be to provide ongoing overall assistance to the Project
Director. Shehe will work closely with Project Director on all tasks. Together with the Project
Director sheke will be responsible for the technical tasks, inputs required for public procurement and
related activities; ensure the communication between the World Bank and Borrower (MOA)and other
partners involved. Sheke will also be responsible for preparation o fjoint projects reports andproject
coordination.

Procurement Specialist. Sheke will be responsible for procurement planning and adrmnistration o f all
procurement transactions during the life o f the project. The Procurement Specialist will coordinate
inputs required for different steps o f the procurement process (i.e., technical specifications, terms o f
reference, qualification and selection criteria for shortlisting, timetable, etc); and ensure the
 communication between the World Bank and Implementing Agency (MOA) and other partners
 involved relatingto procurement issues.

 Sheke will report to the Project Director, and work closely with the Project Director and the Project
 Deputy Director. The Procurement Specialist will have particular responsibility for cooperation with
 the Department o f Economic Administration and other budgetary staff withm MOAin all tender
procedures relatingto project.

 The Project Director, Project Deputy Director and Procurement Specialist will meet o n a regular basis.
 The Project Director will report directly to the general director o f International affairs section and to
 the minister o fthe MOA.All financial transactions will be signed by the Minister o f the MOA.


                                                -25-

The Borrower, through the MOAshall ensure that adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank are
maintained throughout Project implementation with the Project Team to carry out the fiduciary
functions necessary under the Project.

The Project Team will consist o f Project Director, Project Deputy Director and Financial manager,
with close cooperation o f the Procurement Specialist. It will be responsible for overall project
management within MOA.

The Working Group, established inDecember 2005, will take part inall working issues related to the
project (for example definition o f criteria for selection o f LAGS,Preparation o f Guidelines, etc.). I t
will include the following:

         two members from ARVI (Agency for rural development),
         two members from NGO,
         one employee from the APA,
         representatives from selected micro-regions (pilot projects),
         members from W C ("Higher Territorial Unit")
         the Project Director and Project Deputy Director.

A SteeringCommittee for LeaderAxis has been established, andmet for the first time inSeptember
2005. The Steering Committee's role will be to ensure efficient and effective implementation o f the
Leader approach inthe supported rural areas. The Committee will consist of: members o f MOA, as the
Managing Authority, for the new rural development program during 2007 - 2013; members o f APA;
members o f NGOs; members o f ARVI, members o f selected micro-regions; representatives and
members o f Self-governing Regions o f Slovakia (VUC); and members from Civic Associations.
Dependingonthe agenda, other experts canbe invited.
The Steering Committee will meet on regular basis, but at least once insix months.
Since the main responsibility o f the Steering Committee is to oversee the activities related to Leader
Axis, MOAwill authorize the Steering Committee to take a part in the responsibility o f the World
Bankproject. The Steering Committee may be called upon as needed to assist the Project Team with
issues directly relatedto the project. Inthis event, the Project Director will be responsible for calling a
meeting, and other staff involved inproject will be invited.

Detailed descriptions o f implementationarrangement are shown inthe Organigrambelow.




                                                 -26-

ORGAXIGRAM
                                      I    minister      I

                                                     -
    Working Group               ProjectDirector                ProjectDeputy        Project Team
                                                                  Director



                                   Procurementspecialist




                                    Procurementevaluation
                                          committee



     The Project Director reports to the general director and the Minister.
     DeputyDirector reportsto, and closely collaborates with, the Project Director.
     Procurement Specialist reports to the head o f the Public Procurement Department (in
     accordance with normal practice), and collaborates closely with the Project Director and
     DeputyDirector onanas-neededbasis.
     Financial Management staff collaborate closely with the Project Director and Deputy Director,
     and reportto the Heado fthe relevant MOADepartment (inaccordancewith normal practice).
     The Project Director and Procurement specialist initiate procurement process and request others
     for respective inputs (for instance the TORS, candidates for the long and short lists for
     consulting assignment, requiredqualificationand selection criteria ,etc);
     The Composition o f the Evaluation Committee is proposed by the Project Director for each
     procurement case, and for contracts exceeding US$lOO,OOO equivalent i s approved by the
     comprise atThe
     Minister.         Evaluation Committee for consultant contracts above US$lOO,OOO shall
                   least 5 members including two members from Steering Committee, one
     independent evaluator, 1 member from Procurement department and Procurement Specialist.
     For procurement below $100,000, the Evaluation Committee can be reduced to at least 3
     members
     The Procurement Specialist serves as a secretary to EvaluationCommittee (for example, brief
     the members on the procedures,preparean evaluation report, etc)
     The Working Group will work mainly on the preparation of working documents and include
     representativeso fARVI, representativeso fNGOs, APA,VUC, micro-regions.
     The Steering Committee includes representatives o f MOA,APA, NGOs, ARVI, VUC, Civic
     Associations, and, in case o f Project involvement, other involved representatives
     (procurement department, budgetary department, etc) which takes partial responsibility o f the
     Project implementation.
     The Evaluation Committee makes a decision on the contracts award and informs Project
     Director who then proceed to the next step (either request the Bank a no objection if this is
     requiredbythe legal agreement, or proceedswith the contract signing)

Agreement between the Borrower and Ministry of Agriculture. The Borrower is the Slovak
Republic represented by its Ministry o f Finance (MoF). The MOAwill be the implementing
agency for the Project. MOAwill budget the funds for the project in its respective budgets
approved by the MoF starting from 2006.


                                              -27-

                Annex 7: FinancialManagementand Disbursement Arrangements
  SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

Financial Management Assessment. The financial management assessment was performed in July
2005 during the Project's appraisal. The proposed financial management arrangements of the
project are acceptableto the World Bank.

Country Issues. Slovakia is a member of the OECD, and member of the EuropeanUnionsince May
1, 2004. The Government's success indesigning and implementinga comprehensive reformprogram
depends fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen the institutional framework in which those
policies are conceived, decided upon, and executed. Within this institutional framework, public
finance management structureswill be key.
The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment for Slovakia, publishedinAugust 2000, concluded
that, "Budget control is strong in the current N B S dominated system". The Government is in the
processof implementingof an ambitious program of public finance reforms, consisting of abolishing
extra-budgetary funds, adopting new audit legislation, the introduction of a medium-term fiscal
outlook, a major overhaul of budgetary legislation, elaborating and implementing ESA95 and
GFS2001 methodologies for reporting on public finance, introduction of multi-year budgeting,
disclosure on contingent liabilities, improvingcontrol of the deficits of local Governmentsand public
funds, initiating fiscal decentralization, adopting a pilot scheme for programbudgeting, and creating a
legal frameworkfor a State Treasury and aDebt and Liquidity Management Agency (DLMA). Many
of these reforms are now reflected in Slovakia's legislation and are being operationalized with the
support ofthe developmentpartners and specifically throughthe World Bank-financedPublic Finance
ManagementProject. The March2005 IMF update ofthe Report ofthe Observancesof Standardsand
Codes"Fiscal Transparency Module" acknowledgesprogressmadeby Slovakia.

Strengths & Weaknesses. The strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial
management system include the use to a great extent of existing financial accounting budgetary
procedures (includingtreasury system), with robust internalcontrolmechanisms,to process payments
andrecordtransactions inMOA. The specific risk identified duringthe assessment relatesto the Pilot
ProjectsComponentwhichwill be implementedby Local Action Groups funded by grants from MOA
and the financing agreements including control and monitoring procedures are not yet defined. This
risk will be mitigatedby the requirement to prepare and submit to the World Bank for review and
approval of acceptable templates of financing agreements between MOA and LAG and the
Operational Manual for the Implementation of Leader Axis Pilot Projects, which shall be also in
compliancewith EUrespectiverequirements.

ImplementingEntities

TheMinistry of Agriculture (MOA)has overall responsibilityfor program implementation. MOAwill
ensure that the project is adequately funded throughout its life with transparency and clear
accountabilityandthat the necessaryarrangements are put inplaceto ensure satisfactory coordination,
implementation, monitoringand auditingfor the project. The projectwill be managedand coordinated
by designatedstaff workinginexistingorganizationalunits of MOA.The Borrower,throughthe MOA
shall ensure that adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank are maintained throughout Project
implementationwiththe Project Teamto carry out the fiduciary functionsnecessaryunderthe Project,

The Project Team will consist of Project Director, and Project Deputy Director, supported by
specialists includinga FinancialManager.It will be responsiblefor overall projectmanagementwithin
MOA.


                                                 -28-

The implementation arrangements are described indetail inAnnex 6.

Funds Flow. The Project will not maintain a foreign currency Special Account, as creating such
separate account is not envisaged under the existing state treasury system. The loan funds will be
disbursed to the M o F to reimburse eligible expenditures already incurred.        The M o F will make
available necessary funding for the project expenditures for all project components, including
components implemented by MOA.Thereafter, M o F will seek reimbursement from the World Bank
loan. Counterpart funding is not required under t h s project as the loan will cover 100% o f the
expenditures. However, if any government funds are used for t h s project in parallel they will be
accessed through the state budget system and no separate bank account will be opened for t h s
purpose.

The flow o f funds for the Pilot projects component will include the grants provided by MOAto the
final beneficiaries supported by Local Action Groups.             The World Bank will reimburse the
expenditures related to the disbursement o f grant funds from MOAto the final beneficiaries supported
bythe LAGSon the basis ofvalid financing agreements.

StafJing. The project will utilize the existing staff in MOA. Existing MOAstaff from Budget and
Accounting Units o f MOA will be responsible for budgeting, and accounting for the project
expenditures in the existing accounting system o f MOA. The Project Team in MOAwill prepare the
reports (for reimbursement and financial monitoring) on the basis o f the information derived from the
accounting system and supporting excel spreadsheets.            The financial staff o f MOAhas proven
experience inthe accounting andreporting o f budgetary expenditures.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The accounting books and records o f the MOAare maintained
on a cash basis. However, as disbursement will be strictly on a reimbursement basis, the Project will
report to the World Bank on a cash basis. Various departments/sections o f the ministry involved in
receiving Project funds for processing payments and recording the underlying transactions have
written guidelines and procedures to safeguard assets andto ensure the accuracy o f financial reporting.
In addition, for the project purposes the Project Team has prepared a short Financial Manual
stipulating the World Bank's specific requirements includingreimbursement procedures, reporting and
auditing.   Thrs Financial Manual includes internal control procedures (reference to the existing
procedures) ,the roles and the responsibilities o f the various financial management staff in involved
departments o f MOA,eligibility o f expenditures, flow o f funds, applicable budgetary procedures for
application for funds, formats o f the reports (semiannual FMR, annual Project Financial Statements)
with the deadlines for their preparation, and the project's auditing arrangements, including terms o f
reference for audit.

Additionally for the purpose o f the Pilot projects Component, the Project Team will prepare the
overall Operational Manual (including relevant sections on financial management), and a template for
the financing agreements with Local Action Groups in compliance with EU requirements for Leader
program inorder to be ready for the absorption o f EUfunding. Ths set o f procedures will have to be
defined incompliance with respective EUrequirements and acceptable to the World Bank prior to the
commencement o f the Pilot Projects Component.

The Internal Audit department in the MOAperforms the internal audit function according to the
annual plan as approved by the MOA. Inthe event that the internal auditor includes the project in its
audit plans this will provide additional assurance. However the current audit plans established on an
annual basis covers only the existing projects and not the LPTA. Therefore the World Bank is not
able to solely rely on such internal audit for its fiduciary purposes.

ExternaZAudit. MOAwill organize the annual audits of the financial statements for the entire project.
The audit o f the project financial statements will be performed annually (or for other period as agreed
with the Bank) by an auditor inaccordance with TORSacceptable to the World Bank. The audit shall
be carried out in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as published by the
 International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board o f the International Federation of Accountants

                                                  -29-

(IFAC) or Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Standards Committee o f the International
Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).         The project financial statements together
with the auditor's report will be submitted to the World Bank within six months o f the end o fthe each
fiscal year.   The TORs acceptable to the World Bank were attached to the Agreed Minutes o f
Negotiations. T h e short list o f auditors will be submitted to the World Bank prior to the end o f each
fiscal year, and only those accepted by the World Bank shall be included inthe short list. The cost o f
the audit can be financed from the loan (and is included inthe procurement plan) or from the budget
funds.

Audit Report                                          IDue Date
Audit Report o fProject Financial Statements          1Within 6 months o fthe end o f each fiscal year (or
                                                       such other period agreed to by the World Bank)
                                                       and also at the closing o f the Project.

Reporting and Monitoring. MOAthrough the Project Team, will be responsible for submission o f
financial   monitoring reports (FMRs) on a semi-annual basis within 45 days o f month-end
incorporating the information submitted by implementing entities as well as annual Project Financial
Statements subject to external audit. The first FMRs will be submitted to the World Bank not later
than 45 days after the end o f the first calendar halfyear after the Effectiveness Date. Draft formats o f
the FMRs have been agreed during the negotiations and are attached to the Agreed Minutes o f
Negotiations. The FMRs include:
         Description o f the project progress
         Project sources and uses o f funds including not only the WB funds pre-financed and actually
         reimbursed
         Uses o f funds by project activities
         Contract monitoring
         Updatedprocurement planandreport on procurement activities; and
         Summarystatement o f expenditures for the purpose o f reportbased disbursement.

Information Systems. The project will utilize the accounting system in M o F for its accounting. The
system has sufficient flexibility to allow the establishment o f separate analytical codes within the main
accounts, to track and report uponthe use o f the project funds.

The entire project will have a separate appropriation under the budget chapter. However the system i s
not able to generate FMRs or disbursement reports automatically.            The FMRs will be compiled
manually usingExcel spreadsheets. Due to the relatively low volume of transactions, this approach is
 acceptable.

DisbursementArrangements

 The Slovak Budget L a w requires that all income and expenditure o f the State pass through accounts in
 the State Treasury. This therefore precludes the establishment o f a separate Special Account for the
 Project and the payment o f suppliers directly from the Loan Account. Disbursements from the World
 Bank loanwill therefore be limitedto reimbursements based on aggregate reports.

 Since all project transactions will be accounted for in MOA, the project will use report-based
 disbursement, i.e. for reimbursement purposes the MOA will provide summary statements o f
 expenditures with project expenditures by categories in aggregated form (part o f FMRs) based on the
 data from the assigned analytical code. Due to the fact that the report-based disbursement will be
 utilized for the first time in Slovaha under this project the aggregate reports should be supported with
 the printouts from the accounting system. The reimbursement will be done in Slovak Koruna (SKK),
 which i s the applicable currency inbudgetary accounting.

 The loan may be used to financed retroactive expenditures i.e. payments made for expenditures prior
 to the date o f signing the loan agreement but after August 1, 2005, up to the aggregate amount o f
 Euro 50,000, inrespect o f Categories 1"Consultant Services, Training, Workshops" and4 "Operating
                                                   -30-

Costs". Retroactive expenditures should be claimed for reimbursement in separate Withdrawal
Application with supporting FMR related to the period from August 1,2005 till the date o f the signing
of the loanagreement.

                  Table: AllocationofLoanProceedsandFinancingPercentage

   Followingthe new approach the grant categories can be split by implementing entities rather
   thanbytype oftheprocurement expenditures.

                                                    Amount in Amount
              ExpenditureCategory                      EUR        inUS$        FinancingPercentage
                                                       million    million3
 1Consultant Services, Training, workshops             0.800       0.96     100%

 2. Pilot Projects                                     0.407       0.48     100%

 3. Goods                                              0.010       0.012    100%

 4. Operating Costs                                     0.08       0.09     100%

 5. Front-end Fee                                  I   0.003       0.003
                                                                           I
                                                   I            I         I
 Total Loan                                             1.30    II 1.54

denominated inEuroinLoan Agreement

Action Plan.    .  As a result of the appraisal assessment, recommendations were made to strengthen
the financial management arrangements of the project prior to Negotiations, and prior to the
commencement o f Pilots Component. All required fiduciary actions (points 1 & 2) were completed
prior to the Negotiations.


Action Planfor MOAto strengthenthe financialmanagement

      I Action                                             I Remonsibilitv     1Deadline
        Prior to Negotiations
  1     Agreeing onthe final version ofFMRs                  MoF, MOA           Completed
                                                             World Bank
  2     Preparing the Financial Manual for the Project       MOA                Completed
        During Project Implementation
   3    Preparation o f financial sections the Operational   MOA                Prior the sigmng o f
        Manual and template of Financing Agreements                             the first financing
        between MOA and LAG for the Pilots                                      Agreement between
        Component.                                                              MOAandLAG.




                                                -31-

                                 Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
  SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

Procurement for the proposed Project would be camed out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, andtime frame are agreed betweenthe ImplementingAgency (the MOA)and the Bankin
the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated accordmg the actual project
implementation needsbutnot lessthanevery six month.

Procurementof Goods: A small number o f Goods contracts of small value will be financed under this
project andinclude: basic IT equipment insmall quantities and off-the-shelf software. Since there are a
limited number o f Goods contracts (with an aggregate budget o f $10,000) to be financed from the loan,
it is anticipated that only Shoppingprocedures will be used.

Selection of Consultants: technical assistance to the MOAwill be provided for development of
policy and administrative capacity frameworks, admmistmtive and operational guidelines and training
manual for LAGS,and creation o f the national rural network, as well as other advisory services under
the four components o f the project. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance
with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. All consultants' services packages
(both with firms and individuals) identified on the date o f appraisal do not require application o f the
Quality andCostBasedSelection (QCBS) procedure.

The following procurement methods may be followed:

(i)    Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures maybe used for specific technical assistancepackages as
       ifagreed duringproject implementation andreflectedintheprocurementplan;

(ii)most
       Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures would be used in
              o f the cases for contracting o f consulting services for assignments below US$200,000.

(iii)SingleSourcecontracting(ofconsultingfirms)andSoleSourcecontracting(ofindividual
       consultants)maybe used injustified        cases as per provisions o f paragraphs 3.9-3.10 and 5.4 o f
       the Guidelines for Selection o f Consultants subject to prior agreement withBank andapproval of
       an updatedprocurement planwhich includes such contracts.

Community Participation in Procurement (para. 3.17 of the Guidelines) will apply under
Component 3 o fthe Project. A limited number o f grants will be provided to undertake a number o fpilot
projects ("Pilot Projects") utilizing the Leader approach inat least three regions o fthe country. Provided
grants for Pilot Projects would finance       goods, works, services (other than consultants' services),
consultants' services and training as the case might be depending on the type o f expenditures in the
 approved proposals. The Operational Manual prepared during the first year of the Project and prior to
 disbursement o f the grants would detail applicable procurement procedures and include sample
 documents and agreement (contract) forms.

 Operating Costs: operating costs required to administer project implementation would be procured
usingthe implementing agency's administrative procedures.

 Others: (a) Training: Project would include training o f Local Action Groups, civil servants and
 government officials both from the central and regional levels. Training will be done in a form of
 workshops, seminars, discussionmeetings andetc. Training plandetailing estimated budget, profile and
 total number o f the participants, subject or outline o f an agenda will be agreed with the Bank.



                                                   -32-

Expenditures for the workshops and training events not included in consultant's contracts will be
accountedfor anddisbursed against SOE.

ProcurementArrangementsinthe MOA

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Procurement Specialist appointed by MOA.The
Procurement specialist will be assisted by a part-time procurement consultant (procurement advisor)
familiar with the Slovak public procurement law, the Bank's procurement procedures and relevant EU
drectives.

The project will include a limited number o f small value contracts none o f whch will be above the level
requiring an international competition.   MOAhas a hctional procurement unit staffed with trained
procurement specialists and frequently utilizes the services o f part time certified procurement consultants
for particular tenders. Slovak public procurement law is mamly inline with international standards and is
being amended to comply with the latest requirements o fthe EUDirectives (2004/17/EC and 2004/18/EC).
Thw, the procurement riskis assessedas low.

ProcurementPlan

The finalized version of the Procurement Plan (attached below) was confirmed and signed at the
Negotiations. The Procurement Plan provides the basis for the procurement methods and identifies the
contracts subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                 -33-

<

a
c

U


U
a

L
C
I
r

                  Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis

SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL,ASSISTANCEPROJECT


Not applicable.




                                 -35-

                                 Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues

 SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


       The Europe and Central Asia Region Safeguards Review Meeting (Minutes available on file)
confirmed that the Project as proposed is Category "C", and does not trigger any safeguards. Ths is
primarilydue to the fact that the Project is almost entirely Technical Assistance.




                                                -36-

                                   Annex 11: Project Processing

 SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                                                Planned                          Actual

Initial PID to PIC                                            June 23,2005                    July 1,2005
Initial ISDSto PIC                                            June 23,2005                    July 1,2005
Appraisal                                                     June30,2005                     July 4,2005
Negotiations                                               September 21,2005
Board/RVP Approval                                          October 30,2005
PlannedDate of Effectiveness                               February 27,2006
Planned date of MTR
Planned Closing date                                          June 30,2008


Key InstitutionsResponsiblefor preparation of the project:

Ministry of Agriculture, Department o f Structural Policy (within Section for InternationalAffairs)




                                                         Title                                     Unit

Petra Vehovska                                    Operations Analyst                              ECCU7
Benoit Blare1                                      Sector Manager                                 ECSSD
JuergenVoegele                                     Sector Manager                                 ECSSD
Maria Vannari                                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                          ECSPS
Iwona Warzecha                           Sr. Financial Management Specialist                      ECSPS
Agata Waclawik-Wejman                                   Counsel                                   LEGEC
Dana Goldstein                                        Sr. Counsel                                 LEGEC
Nikolai Soubbotin                                     Sr. Counsel                                 LEGEC
Andrina Ambrose                                   Sr. Finance Officer                             LOAGl
R o h t Mehta                                     Sr. Finance Officer                             LOAGl
Jan Pakulslu                       Peer Reviewer, Senior Social Development and                   ECSSD
                                                Civil Society Specialist
Holger Kray                                        Sector Economist                               ECSSD


Bank funds expended to-date on project preparation:

         BankResources:          U S $60,000
         Trust funds             0
         Total:                  U S $60,000

Estimate Approval and SupervisionCosts:

         Remainingcosts to approval:                              U S $5,000
         Estimated total supervision costs (FY06 and 07):         us $100,000




                                               -37-

                     Annex 12: DocumentsinProjectFile

SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATIONTECHNICAL. ASSISTANCEPROJECT


      1.   ProjectConceptNote
      2.   Project InformationDocument
      3.   IntegratedSafeguardsData Sheet
      4.   Current draft ofEURegulation,"European AgriculturalFundfor Rural
           Development"




                                  -38-

                                          Annex 13: StatementofLoansandCredits

           SLOVAK REPUBLIC: LEADER PREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                                                         expected and actual
                                                               Original Amount inUS$ Millions                              disbursements

Project ID  FY     Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO92786     2005   HUMANCAPITAL TA (SIDEMAPL#I) 6.47                     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       6.38      0.14        0.00
PO65954     2004   HEALTH REFORM                              62.92      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      47.56      17.57       0.00
PO82879     2004   HEALTH TA                                  12.38      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      11.69      2.09        0.00
PO69864     2003   PUB FIN MGMT                                5.45      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       4.17      1.59        0.00
PO38090     2002   SOC BENREFADM                              23.54      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      29.88      18.27       0.50
                                                    Total:  110.76       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      99.68      39.66       0.50




                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                                      InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                                               Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                              IFC                                         IFC
        FY Approval   Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic.    Loan       Equity       Quasi     Partic




                                Total portfolio:   0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment

                       FY Approval   Company                             Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic.




                                           Total pending commitment:     0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00




                                                                 -39-

                                              Annex 14: Country at a Glance
  SLOVAKREPUBLIC:LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT
                                                                 Europe8         Upper-
POVERNand SOCIAL                                         Slovak     Central     middle-
                                                       Republic      Asia       income      1     Developmentdiamond'
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                5.4      476          331                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (At/as method, US$)                         6,210     2,160        5,040
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                             33.4    1,030        1,666                               -

Average annual growth, 199844                                                                                          I
Population(%)                                                 0.0       0.1         1.2
Labor force (%)                                               0.3       0.4         1.6           GNI
                                                                                                  per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199844)                                              capita
Poverty ("hofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                         58        63           75
Lifeexpectancy at birth(years)                                73        69           73                                i
Infant mortality(per 1.000 livebirths)                         7        25           19
Child malnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                                                  Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            100       91           90
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                         3           7
Gross primary enrollment (% of schwl-agepopulation)           103      102          105              -Slovak       Republic
    Male                                                      103      103          106                    Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                    103      101          105

KEYECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  I984      1994     2003         2004      I Economic       ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                           15.5     32.7         41.1
Gross domestic InvestmenWGDP                                 21.o     25.4         26.3
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                              59.6     77.7         76.6                              Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                                                                    ~




Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                    25.5      24.0        22.0
Current account balancdGDP                                    4.3      -0.6         -3.5
Interest paymentslGDP                                         1.2       0.9         0.5                                  -+         Investment
Total debffGDP                                               30.6     56.3         41.7
Total debt sefvicelexports                                    9.3      13.2          5.6
Presentvalue of debWGDP
Present value of debffexports
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04       2003     2004       2004-08
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                         ..     3.9        4.5       5.5          5.0              -Slovak        Republic
GDP per capita                              ..     3.6        4.4       5.4          5.0
Exportsof goods and services                ..     9.6       22.5      11.4        13.9


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                                       I.,:
                                                  1984       1994    2003          2004            Growthof investmentand GDP    ( O h )
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   6.1       3.6          3.6          20 T


Industry                                                     31.9      29.2        29.7            10

   Manufacturing                                             20.4      19.1         19.4
Services                                                     59.0      67.1        66.7           -20


Private consumption                                          52.2      55.2        56.0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 21.2      20.6        20.3
Importsof goods and services                                 54.2      79.2        79.5

                                                                                                                                              I
                                               1984-94 1994-04        2003         2004
(average annualgrowih)                                                                             Growth of exports and Imports ("A)

Agriculture                                                   2.9       4.7          9.6          30 T
Industry                                                      1.9       6.6         11.5          20
   Manufacturing                                              4.5       6.1         11.9
Services                                                      5.0       2.6          2.4          10


Privateconsumption                                            3.9      -0.7          5.4           0

General governmentconsumption                                 3.2       3.0          1.4     -10
Grossdomestic investment                                      4.2      -6.2         13.1
importsof goods anU services                       9.5        9.7      13.6         12.7

Note:2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
`The diamondsshow four key indicators inthe country(in bold) comparedwith its Incomegroup average. If data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                -40-

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1984   1994    2003    2004
                                                                                                                          I
Domesticprices                                                            lnflatlon (%)

(x change)                                                               15 -

Consumer prices                                 13.4      8.5     7.5
implicitGDP deflator                                                      10
                                                13.4      4.7     4.6  L
Governmentfinance                                                      1 5
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                 50.1    35.4    44.6
Current budget balance                            1.7    4 . 6    0.1
Overallsurplusldeficit                           5.1      -3.7   -3.3              -GDP       deflator   '0-CPI


TRADE
                                         1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and Import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            6,691   21,838  27,754     3 5 . m T
 Other agriculture                                                        30 Ow
 Commodity2                                                              25 WO
 Manufactures                                  5,661   19.548  24,309     20 000
Total imports (cif)                            6,633   22.479  29,210     15WO
 Food                                            544      848   1,196     10000
 Fueland energy                                1,273    2,688   3,616      5 000
 Capital goods                                          5,045   6,605           0

Export price index (1995=100)                     92      129     126              98   99   00      01    02      03   04

Import price index (1995=100)                     93      135     133    I
Termsof trade (1995=100)                          99       95      95                      Exports           Imports


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balanceto G D P K
Exports of goods and services                  8,947   25,129  31,480
Importsof goods and services                   8,232   25,530  32,651
Resource balance                                 715    -401   -1,171
Net income                                      -119    -120    -409
Net currenttransfers                              69      223     223

Current account balance                          665    -276   -1,447

Financingitems (net)                             215    1,883   3,556
Changes in net reserves                         -880   -1,607  -2.108
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           1.745  12,149  12,149
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)                  32.0     36.8    32.3

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS                                                                                         1
                                         1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                           I Composition of 2004 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      1,179 4,758   18.379  17,121
  iBRD                                      0    247      293     364
  IDA                                       0      0        0       0                           A 364   DfGBS1
Total debt service                         39    843    3,492   1,851
  IBRD                                      0      12      34      55
  IDA                                       0       0        0      0         G 8,034
Compositionof net resourceflows                                                                                   j
  Officialgrants                                   87     285     300                                              F 7.779
  ORicial creditors                         0    243     -165      70
  Privatecreditors                         24    307      895  -1-327
  Foreigndirect investment                       255      549   1,259
  Polffolio equity                               272     -558     849

World Bank program
  Commitments                               0     80         0      0      A - IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 -
  Disbursements                             0     86       81     113      B IDA
                                                                              -       D -Other rnulhlateral  F Pnvate
                                                                                                                 ~

  Principalrepayments                       0       0      24      42
  Net flows                                 0     86       56      71
  Interestpayments                          0      12      10      12
  Nettransfers                              0      74      47      59




                                                    -41-

                 Annex 15: OngoingMeasures Supporting:RuralDevelopment

  SLOVAKREPUBLIC: LEADERPREPARATIONTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

Three measures support rural development: (i)SAPARD program and payments performed under
particular measures in 2003; (ii)Sectoral Operational Program for Apculture and Rural
Development for 2004-2006; and (iii)     Rural Development Plan2004-2006.

Within the payments from public funds (EU and Slovak Republic), the amount o f SKK 25,569,000
was used for Measure 4a o f the SAPARD program- Diversification activities inrural areas (only for
investments not involving infrastructure). Moreover, rural development has been directly supported
through the state budget through direct payments and subsidies for less-favored areas, payments for
environmental measures, and support to investments infixed assets.

Subsidies for the diversification o f agricultural activities focused on the following:

a)   reconstruction and modernization o f recreational and accommodation facilities,
b) reconstruction o f the existing agricultural facilities not serving their original purpose into
facilities specified under a), c) and d), development o f auxiliary production, production o f traditional
materials andproducts, production and sale o f local specialties ,
c)    construction o f ago-tourism facilities, including hygienic, ecological and reconditioning facilities
for development o f tourism,
d) Development o f recreational activities, including the purchase o f machinery and technologies
(pathways, horse riding, fishing, hunting, water sports, etc.).

Compared to the years before, the support shfted its focus from operations to investments. However,
in comparison with 2002, the amount of partial reimbursement (direct support) to investments
dropped from 40% to 30% o f the expenditures incurred, while partial reimbursement o f installments
on the loans granted for the purpose of diversifying apcultural activities decreased from 40% to 30%
for the respective calendar year, while subsidies designed to cover a portion o f interest cost remained
available. Rural development was also financed from EU funds through training programs in the
amount o f SKK 1.7 million.

Sectoral Operational Program (SOP) Agriculture and Rural Development 2004-2006: This
i s the one o f the operational programs prepared withn the National Development Plan o f the Slovak
Republic (NDP SR) for the use o f the EUstructural funds inthe 2004-2006 period. It covers all areas
in Slovalua that fall under Objective 1 (Support for the development and structural adaptation of
underdeveloped regions, where the gross national income per capita i s lower than 75% o f the average
value o f the Community gross domestic product, i.e. all areas in Slovakia except for the Bratislava
Region - whxh comprises the districts o f Malacky, Pezinok and Senec, as well as urban areas o f
Bratislava: Zhhorska Bystrica, Vajnory, cuiiovo, Rusovce, Jarovce - these dstricts are supported by
the Rural Development Plan in Slovalua). The Apcultural Paying Agency (APA) is responsible for
its implementation. The program is closely connected with the SAPARD program, inthat it includes
certain new measures and extends some o fthe original measures.

The SOP Agriculture and Rural Development is co-financed from the EU structural fimds, namely
from the Guidance Section o f the European Agricultural Guidance andGuarantee Fund(EAGGF) and
ECCouncil RegulationNo. 1263/1999 on Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG).




                                                  -42-

The global objective of the SOP inconnection with the NDP is the strengthening o f a multifunctional
agriculture sector and rural development. The respective activities for which financial resources may
be used are classified into two priorities (these priorities are broken down into measures dealing with
specific issues withn the overall context o f selectedpriorities), namely:

1. Support ofproductive agriculture
2. Support of sustainable rural development

In compliance with the EC Council Regulation No. 1260/99, in the beginning of 2004 a program
complement was elaborated, which sets out operational details at Priority and Measure level. The
Program Complement is the document implementing the program strategy and priorities and contains
detailed elements at measure level.

The regions o f Slovaha covered by Objective 1will receive a subsidy for co-financing o f the projects
amounting to EUR 182,987,987 from the EAGGF and FIFG funds for the 2004-2006 timeframe.
Further EUR 72,806,812 o f Slovak public sector expenditure and EUR 210,559,259 from the private
sector will matcht h s amount. Intotal, the Program will be worth an estimated EUR466,354,058.

The implementation o f the Sectoral Operational Program for Agnculture and Rural Development -
Objective 1Program will be the responsibility o f the Monitoring Committee -Ministryo f Agriculture
o f SR w h c h will, in line with their mutual prior agreement, delegate some o f the activities to the
Agncultural Paying Agency (APA). Funds allocated to eligible projects inthe 2004-2006 timeframe
will be available for spendingupto 31 December 2008.

Rural Develoument Plan 2004-2006: The elaboration o f the program document Rural Development
Plan in the Slovak Republic was one of the pre-requisites for the disbursement and use o f rural
development resources from the Guarantee Section o f the EAGGF in 2004-2006. The content and
conditions of the elaboration of these documents are laid down in the (EC) Council Regulation No.
1257/1999 on support for rural development from the EAGGF and Annex I1 to its implementing
regulation -the (EC) Commission RegulationNo. 445/2002.

The Rural Development Plan in the Slovak Republic in 2004 - 2006 was developed in line with the
said regulations and i s in compliance with the earlier elaborated Sector Operation Program
"Agculture and Rural Development" 2004-2006,            which implements measures financed from the
Guidance Section o f the EAGGF+FIFG under Objective 1(the whole territory o f Slovakia except for
the Bratislava Regon). In the process o f building the necessary institutional and administrative
capacities and based on the recommendations o f the Commission, the capacities developed under the
SAPARD program will be used. The Rural Development Plan 2004 - 2006 was endorsed by the
Slovak Government on 16 July 2003 inits Resolution No. 69212003. It was officially submitted to the
DGAGRIon 13 May 2004, as the SAPARD programwas finished on 12May 2004.

The Rural Development Plan specified the following objectives andpriorities:

Overall objective: Increase effectiveness inthe agricultural production sector, as well as the quality o f
life o f the rural population.

Specific objectives o f the Rural Development Plan:

     Promote the development o f rural economy and improve the standard o f living o f the rural
population, improve the development o f rural areas by enabling access to infrastructure services, thus
maintaining the population o f rural communities,

0    Provide for environmental protection and biological diversity o f rural environment, at the same
time enabling sustainable utilization o f rural resources.



                                                  -43-

Priority 1Development o f a sustainable rural economy (rural economy and employment)

Priority 2 Protection andimprovement o f the rural environment (environment inrural areas)

The financial framework o f support for measures under the Rural Development Plan for the 2004-
2006 timeframe is made up o f the negotiated amount from the Guarantee Section o f the EAGGF (a
total o f EUR 397,l million), national co-financing amounting to EUR 119.105 million and private
resources inthe amount o fEUR41.153 million.

Ongoing Capacity BuildingActivities related to Leader

Since the Slovak Republic didnot utilize the Leader+ Program inthe current programming period, the
Ministryof Agriculture is committed to strengthening its implementationcapacity for the Leader axis
o f the new European Union rural development program, the "European Agncultural Fund for Rural
Development" (EAFRD) duringthe next programming period, 2007-2013.            The Project is designed to
meet this goal.

However, while Leader has not been utilized, the Ministry has made good use o f the techmcal
assistance available from the pre-accession fund, SAPARD, to pilot Leader-type projects as
preparation for the 2007-2013 programming period. The "TA SAPARD Project" has been under
implementation since early 2004, and i s expected to be finished at the end o f December 2005. This
TA project has enabled a number o f rural micro-regions to build their capacity for the "bottom up",
integrated and territorially oriented sustainable development o f "Leader type". While the project has
been very successful in assisting these micro-regions in developing investment strategies, it i s not
intended to help withthe implementation o f these strategies.

The Project was approved by the SAPARD Monitoring Committee, w h c h dedicated EUR 375,000 to
the project for the period 2004-2005. The project was aimed at rural micro-repons with more than
8,000 inhabitants. Inaddition to the population requirement, the micro-regions needed to be able to
demonstrate the capacity to contribute 10 percent o f the financing, provide office space equipped with
computer and Internet, and employ a local manager.             The region also needed to have civic
associations led by active and motivated people and businesses that are able to invest (volume o f
investmentswas not important, only the willingness and the ability).

Selection Process. The ManagngAuthority (MA) o f the SAPARD Program first organized a public
tender at the NUTS I1level to select the adrmnistrator o f the project. Following this, the administrator
organized a public tender within his area and created a committee, which then selected micro-regions
based on the criteria set upby the MA.

The aid was focused on technical expertis-ach           micro-region received a technical expert from
outside o f the area (minimum3 years o f practical experience working inlocal rural development) and
a local manager. A National Coordinator provided methodological guidance to the local t e c h c a l
experts

The Project is also providing budget for activities (meetings, workshops, seminars, social activities,
consultations, etc.) connected to the mobilization o f local people and for setting up local development
strategies -documents (data collections, elaboration, questionnaires, surveys, analysis etc.).
The total TA SAPARD Project area covers approximately 100,000 inhabitants (approximately 2% o f
total'population o f the Slovak Republic) and 145 rural villages (5.2% o f total number o f villages in
the Slovak Republic).

The overall objective o f the project is to finalize development strateges for presentation at regonal
(NUTS I1level) conferences, and to promote the approach to other micro-regions.



                                                 -44-

Integrated rural development in Slovakia is also being promoted through the Fund o f Rural
Development (MOA),SeedFund(DFID), andthe UNDP Local Agenda 21.

Fund for Rural Developmentof MOA,supported by the EU-PHAREpre-accession fund, in two
phases supported establishment and development o f cross-sector partnerships o n the district level (6
districts were supported), as well as preparation o f socio-economic development strategies. Financing
was also provided for the implementation o f these strategies through projects, according to priorities,
measures and implementation rules agreed before with MOAand local partnerships. At the same
time, final aid beneficiaries tested the implementation procedure, as they did similarly in the
SAPARD program.         In total, 100,000,000 SKK were provided for projects realized within the
development strategies. The outputso f the programwere monitored independently.

Seed Fund. Within its authority two rural micro-regon development strateges o f the Leader type
were supported by the project. Inaddition, support was provided for the regional development o f the
BanskhBystrica region. A Micro-regional partnership (formally registered) designed a Strategy of
socio-economic development. The strategy comprised a resource audit, SWOT analysis, problem
analysis, strategic and specific objectives, action and financial plans with the beneficiary, as well as
project and scope of assistance definition. Defined beneficiaries applied for financial assistance based
on the project application. The managing board, composed o f local partnership members, the project
implementation agency and other independent bodies, carried out the project selection procedure.

Local Agenda 21 (UNDP). In2003-2004, UNDPBratislava supported design andimplementationo f
Local Agenda 21, which is analogous to the socio-economic development strategies o f Leader type.
The size o f support was USD 10,000 per strategy, including one selected project for each micro-
region.




                                                -45-


                             17E                                     18E                                  19E                                   20E                                            21E                                   22E                         23E

              50N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50N




                                                                                                                                                                                             P O L A N D
                              SLOVAK                                                          To
                                                                                              To
                              REPUBLIC                                                     Cesky Tesin
                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                       Rabka                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Nowy Sacz                                       Krosno


                                                                                To
                                                                                To              Cadca                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                              Prerov                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                      To                                     Krynica                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                        Kysucke             Tvrdosin              Zakopane                     Stara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Svidnik                   Sanok
                                                     CZECH                                              Nove Mesto                                                          L''bovna
                                                                                                                                                                              bovna

                                                                         To
                                                                         To                                                                                 Gerlachovsky                          L''ubotin
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ubotin        Bardejov   Medziaborce
                                                         REP.           Zlin           Bytca          Zilina Z I L I N S K Y                                Stit (2655 m)
                                                                                                                     Kral'ovany
                                                                                                                     Kral'ovany        Bystra
                                                                              Puchov                                                                                        Kezmarok
                                                                                          Povazska                          Vah      (2250 m)               Tatry                                     P R E S O V S K Y                    Carpathian
                                                                                          Bystrica                                              Vy s o k e                                   Spisske                                                    M t s .
              49N                                                                                           Martin        Ruzomberok                 Vazek           Poprad                 Podhradie                                        Snina                    49N
                                                  To
                                                  To              KarpaTrencin
                                                                         ty                                                                                                                                          Presov        Humenne
                                            Uherske Hradiste                                                                                                                                 Torysa                                                   Ubl'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ubl'a
                           To
                           To                                                                 Turcianske       Korytnica                                                 Spisska
                                                                                                                                                                                        Margecany
                          Brno                                                                                                                                        Nova Ves es
                            Morava                          Bile                                  Teplice
                                                                T R E N C I A N S K Y                                  Nizke    Tatry on Hr                                                                                  Vranov

                                                                  Nove Mesto          Prievidza                                  Brezno                                         Smolnik                                                     Michalovce

                                                                                                                     Banska                                                                                           Kosice
                                Kuty         Senica
                                                                           Partizanske                                                                              Roznava                 Moldova                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                         Ziar nad    Bystrica              Tisovec
                                                                                                                                                                                       nad Bodvou             K O S I C K Y           Trebisov            Mukachevo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UKRAINE
                               Malacky   Male                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                       To                                           Slovenske             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                              Hlohovec                               Zarnovica                                                                  Kazincbarcika                                       Nove Mesto         Mukachevo
                            B R AT I -                                           Zlate                                                                  Rimavska
                                             Trnava                          Moravce          Hron                                                      Sobota                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                         S L AV S K Y                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                        Pezinok TKRNAVSKY
                                                  arpaty           Topol'cany
                                                                    opol'cany                            Hronom      Zvolen

                                                                                                            B A N S K O B Y S T R I C K Y                             Slana


                                                               Vah                                                Krupina                                                                                     Miskolc          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                            Nitra                                               Lucenec
                                                                                             Kozarovce                                                                                                                     Sarospatak
                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                             To                                                           Cigand
                                                                     N I T R I A N S K Y                                                                                    Miskolc

                                                                   Sal'a
                                                                   Sal'a                      Levice
              AUSTRIA   To
                        To        BRATISLAVA                                                                            Ipel
                      Vienna                         Dunajska                                         Sahy                               To
                                                                                                                                         To
              48N                                                                   Zeliezovce                                                                                                                                                                        48N
                                       Danube        Streda                                                                            Budapest
                                                                Nove Zamky
                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                Budapest
                                   To
                                   To                          Kolarovo
                                 Kapuvar
                                                                    Komarno               Sturovo                                                                                                                           SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                              To
                                                  To
                                                  To                                                          Vac
                                                                                                              Vac
                                                 Gyor              To
                                                                   To
                                                                  Gyor      To
                                                                            To
                                                                        Tatabanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                     H U N G A R Y                                                                                                       REGION (KRAJ) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS

                                        0          20          40        60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                   MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                         RAILROADS                         IBRD
                                        0                  20              40 Miles                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                        REGION (KRAJ) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
              47N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33480
        2004                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                       17E                                       18E                                      19E                                     20E                                               21E

