Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7364 SK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Leader Preparation Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 7, 2006 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7364 SK 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2006, between SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has established the Social and Institutional 
Development and Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (SIDEM 
Program) for Eligible Members of the European Union (EU) to help promote social and 
institutional development and economic management in eligible EU member countries; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(C) 
the Project forms part of the SIDEM Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The
 “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or 
Page  4
-
2
-
services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that end, if the Bank shall at any 
time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Agency for Rural Development” means the agency of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Agriculture tasked with supporting a broad range of rural development 
activities throughout the country;   
(b) 
“APA” means the Agricultural Paying Agency, a budgetary organization 
established according to the Borrower’s Law 473/2003Z.z., dated October 24, 2003, for 
the purpose of supporting agriculture, food processing, forestry, fisheries, and rural 
development in the Slovak Republic through provision of funds from the Government of 
Slovakia, as well as from the European Community Budget of the Ministry of Agriculture 
of the Borrower, and any successor thereto; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, consultants’ 
services, training, Operating Costs and Pilot Projects referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(e) 
“EU Leader Axis”  means the program of the EU which provides 
member states with funding for new approaches to sustainable rural development 
applicable for the 2007-2013 programming period and encompassing a re-orientation of 
its rural development support policies according to three ‘axes’ under a single new 
funding instrument, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(g) 
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement referred to in paragraph 2 
of Section B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement: (i) to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through its Ministry of Agriculture, and a Local Action Group (as hereinafter 
defined in paragraph (h) of this Section) in compliance with the EU requirements for the 
EU Leader Axis for eligible projects thereunder; and (ii) making a portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the said Local Action Group and final beneficiaries for the 
carrying out of a Pilot Project (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (l) of this Section), and 
such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement; 
(h) 
“Local Action Group” and the acronym “LAG” mean a balanced and 
representative group of partners, comprising more than fifty percent (50%) representation 
from the private sector, non-governmental organizations, and individual persons, drawn 
from different socioeconomic sectors in a given territory, able to devise and implement 
together a development strategy for the territory, formed for the purpose of implementing 
projects eligible for financing under the EU Leader Axis, representing no more than one 
hundred thousand (100,000) and not less than ten thousand (10,000) persons, and 
responsible for all aspects of implementation of EU Leader Axis projects, including 
project screening and approval, monitoring (both physical and impact), payments; 
(i) 
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, and any 
successor thereto; 
(j) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual to be developed and adopted by 
the Borrower, through the MOA, setting forth the procedures and guidelines for the day-
to-day operations of the LAGs under Part C of the Project, as the same may be updated 
and amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Section B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Pilot Project” means a development project, meeting the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual, for, 
inter alia
;
(i) the use of new technologies to make 
the products and services of rural areas more competitive; (ii) improving the quality of 
life in rural areas; (iii) adding value to local products; (iv) making the best use of natural 
and cultural resources; (v) restoring the cultural heritages of sites; and (vi) developing 
agro-tourism under Part C.2 of the Project; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 21, 2005, covering the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding twelve (12) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(n) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee for the EU Leader 
Axis to be established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 
of Section A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one million three 
hundred thousand Euro (EUR 1,300,000). 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, consultants services, training, Operating Costs and Pilot Projects 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
full on June 15, 2010. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOA with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, 
economic, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than six 
(6)
 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the MOA, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOA, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) the Borrower, through the MOA, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each Fiscal 
Year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02. 
(a)  The Borrower, through the MOA, shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall 
cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has provided to the Bank appropriate 
evidence attesting that the Borrower, through the MOA, shall have appointed the Project 
Director and the Project Deputy Director referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Section A of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement with qualifications and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
of
the Slovak Republic 
Ul. Stefanovicova 5 
81782 Bratislava 
P.O. Box 82 
Slovak Republic 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
21868 
  (421-2) 
5958-2196 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ 
Rastislav Ká er
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Euro
)
to be financed 
(1) 
Consultants’ 800,000 
100% 
 services, 
training 
 
and workshops 
  
 
(2) 
Goods, services 
406,750 
100%  
 
(other than consultants’  
 
 
 
services), works,  
 
 
 
consultants’ services and 
 
training under Pilot 
 Projects 
 
(3) Goods 
10,000 
100% 
 
 
 
(4) Operating 
80,000 
100% 
 Costs 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
3,250 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
________
TOTAL 1,300,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “training and workshops” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the cost of training and workshops conducted for employees of the MOA, central 
and local staff of APA, and other regional and local government employees, as well as 
the training targeted to members of existing and new LAGs; and 
Page  14
-
12
-
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
cost of office supplies, local travel and transportation (including fuel and per diem), 
communications and translation costs, and other minor costs associated with the efficient 
operation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 50,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
August 1, 2005; and (ii) Category (2), until and unless the Bank shall have received 
appropriate evidenced that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the MOA and its subordinated 
organizations, as well as local governments, communities and civil society organizations, 
to develop their capacity to prepare for, and implement, the EU Leader Axis during the 
period 2007-2013.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Creation of Policy and Administrative Framework
Creation of the framework for policy-making processes and administrative 
decision-making between the MOA and its associated national and local level 
institutions, municipalities, local governmental structures, and communities, through the 
provision of technical assistance and goods required:  
(a)  
to define the appropriate level of delegation of decision making power 
under the Leader Axis, e.g., level of decentralization of authority for projects selection, 
control and monitoring; 
(b) 
to assess the status of local- and regional-level administrative authorities, 
specifically their capacities to implement the EU Leader Axis and, on such basis, 
subsequently provide clear recommendations on how to build the necessary skills within 
these authorities; 
(c) 
to propose the most suitable co
–financing system within the new EU 
Leader Axis; 
(d) 
to assist national and local authorities to prepare all initial strategic 
documents needed for implementation of the EU Leader Axis, with specific reference to 
proposals for the ‘checklist’ for the APA; 
(e) 
to develop criteria for selection of the Local Action Groups to be funded; 
(f) 
to develop Guidelines for Local Strategy Development and Guidelines 
for LAG operations; and 
(g) 
based on the foregoing analyses and recommendations, to build the 
technical capacity, through focused training, in the MOA, APA and local institutions so 
that they will be prepared to implement the new EU Leader Axis.  
Page  16
-
14
-
Part B:
Mapping
Creation of a specialized map of the
 Borrower’s territory, with specific 
delineation of possible microregions which could be eligible for inclusion in the EU 
Leader Axis pursuant to the relevant criteria from the EU, and which will also assist the 
municipalities in defining their opportunities for cooperation among themselves, through 
the provision of technical assistance required:  
(a) 
to undertake new analyses of completed and/or ongoing studies on rural 
areas in the country, using existing data to determine the main needs of rural regions from 
the EU Leader Axis perspective; and 
(b) 
based on the above, to develop a specialized map of Slovak rural areas 
which would be most suitable for implementation of the EU Leader Axis. 
Part C
:
Formation and Training of Local Action Groups and Implementation of Pilot 
Projects
1. 
Provision of technical assistance: (i) to form and train selected working groups 
from different microregions across the country which have received training and 
assistance with local development plan formation with the view to assist them further in 
their development to become fully functioning LAGs, including the development of the 
Local Training Manual and the Operational Manual; and (ii) in all eligible areas of the 
country based on the mapping under Part B hereof, to attempt to form at least ten-twelve 
(10-12) fully functional LAGs by the end of 2006.   
2. 
Carrying out of selected Pilot Projects utilizing the EU Leader Axis in at least (3) 
three regions of the Borrower’s territory, with a view to enable the MOA’s authorities to 
obtain practical experience with this new rural development approach prior to the full 
implementation period in 2007-2013. 
Part D:
Creation of National Rural Network
Creation of the framework of the National Rural Network in the Slovak Republic 
to serve as the Leader Contact Point and rural information and data collection center for 
the country, through the provision of technical assistance to assist: (i) the Agency for 
Rural Development in reorganizing, strengthening, and developing its vision for the 
Page  17
-
15
-
future, including, among others, strategic directions and mission statements, staffing 
plans, and budgets; and (ii) the MOA in undertaking a broader determination of all rural 
actors, responsible authorities/persons, and administrative requirements necessary to 
make the Network functional and manage its operations. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement
 and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
1. Shopping
.
Goods, excluding those required for Pilot Projects under Part C.2 of 
the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services) required for Pilot Projects under Part C.2 of the Project may be procured on the 
basis of community participation in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual.   
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-Cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
Page  19
-
17
-
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Services and training required for Pilot Projects under 
Part C.2 of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.   
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.   All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section A.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Ministry of Agriculture:  The Project Team and the Working Group
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MOA, shall be responsible for the overall 
Project implementation, coordination and management of the Project, including all of its 
fiduciary aspects.   To that end, the Borrower shall take all action required to ensure that 
the MOA is provided at all times with the required financial resources and technical 
assistance, including those needed to maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Project Team referred to in following paragraph (b). 
(b) 
The Project Team shall consist of a Project Director, who shall have 
primary responsibility for all day-to-day operation of the Project, assisted by a core team 
including a Project Deputy Director and a Procurement Specialist appointed by the MOA, 
and two additional staff to assist the said core team in the financial management aspects 
of the Project as follows: (i)  a Financial Manager, who shall closely cooperate with the 
Project Deputy Director on financial issues; and (ii) an APA Coordinator, who shall 
cooperate on Project-related paying and monitoring issues.   In order to ensure the timely 
and efficient carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through the MOA, shall maintain 
the Project Director, the Project Deputy Director and the core team throughout Project 
implementation with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Until the Project is entirely completed, the Borrower shall maintain a 
Working Group of key technical professionals within the MOA and its associated 
agencies to assist with Project implementation.  The Working Group shall meet on an 
ad
hoc
 basis, as determined by the Project Director, to assist the Project Team with major 
tasks, including, among others, development of criteria for 
LAGs’ selection and 
guidelines and strategies for LAGs’ operations. 
2. Steering 
Committee
Until the Project is entirely completed the Borrower shall maintain a Steering 
Committee with a composition and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
with particular consideration to the extension of its advisory role to include the provision 
of technical guidance under the Project.  
Page  21
-
19
-
Section B.
Implementation Modalities and Mid-Term Review
1. Operational 
Manual
The Borrower, through the MOA, shall take all action required to ensure that: (i) 
the Operational Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
procurement, monitoring and evaluation of Part C of the Project; (ii) Pilot Projects under 
Part C.2 of the Project are selected in accordance with the criteria therein set forth; and 
(iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the MOA do not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
2. Financing 
Agreements
For the purposes of ensuring the successful implementation and monitoring of 
Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through the MOA, shall conclude with each LAG 
eligible under the Project, a Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Bank which shall set 
forth the conditions and modalities for: (i) transferring to the relevant LAG a portion of 
the Loan proceeds on a grant basis for the purposes of financing part or the total cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Pilot Project; and (ii) carrying out and 
monitoring the implementation of the Pilot Project. 
3. Training 
and 
Workshops 
For the purposes of the training and workshops to be conducted for employees of 
the MOA, central and local staff of the APA, and other regional and local government 
employees, as well as the training targeted to members of existing and new LAGs, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval every six (6) months, the content of 
each such training and workshops, including an explanation on how such training and 
workshops is consistent and conducive
 
to the objectives of the Project and whether it 
offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as
 
the schedule for its implementation; 
(b) 
select the trainees and participants in accordance with a transparent 
process and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training and workshops to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each study training and workshop and the benefits to 
be derived therefrom. 
Page  22
-
20
-
4. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 15, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 15, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
