                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No:NCO0000341




                       NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION

                                   (IBRD-73640)




                                   ON A LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 1.3 MILLION
                        (US$ 1.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                               SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                      FOR A

          LEADER PREPARATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                  March 24, 2007




Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Country Department for Central Europe and the Baltic States
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 01/01/2007 )
                                 Currency Unit = Slovak Koruna
                           Slovak Koruna 1.00 = US$ 0.038
                                     US$ 1.00 = Slovak Koruna 26.076


                                        Fiscal Year
                                    January - December




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA     Agricultural Paying Agency
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ARVI    Agency for Rural Development
EAFRD European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
EAGGF European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
EU      European Union
LAG     Local Action Group
MA      Managing Authority
MoA     Ministry of Agriculture
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PIU/PCU Project Implementation Unit/ Project Coordination Unit
SAPARDEuropean Union Technical Assistance Program for Pre-Accession
        Social and Institutional Development and Economic Management (SIDEM) Technical
SIDEM
        Assistance Program
SKK     Slovak Koruna
TA      Technical Assistance




            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

    Acting Country Director: Suman Mehra

           Sector Manager: Maninder S. Gill

       Project Team Leader: David A. Bontempo

        NCO Team Leader: David A. Bontempo

                                                Slovakia
   Leader Preparation Technical Assistance Project (under the SIDEM Facility)



                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 2
 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 7
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 7
 5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 8
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Assistance/Supervision Processes........ 10
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 11

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Leader Preparation
                                                                      Technical Assistance
Country:                Slovakia                Project Name:
                                                                      Project (under the
                                                                      SIDEM Facility)
Project ID:             P090884                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-73640
NCO Date:               04/27/2007
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                      SLOVAKIA
Original Total
                        USD 1.5M                Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date               Process       Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/16/2005      Effectiveness:        03/16/2006        03/16/2006
Appraisal:             07/04/2005      Closing:                                06/30/2008
Approval:              03/02/2006


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                       Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                31
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  3
Other social services                                            57
Sub-national government administration                            9




                                                i

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other rural development                             Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                  Secondary
Rural non-farm income generation                    Secondary
Rural policies and institutions                      Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At NCO                At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu            Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Suman Mehra             Daniela Gressani
Sector Manager:            Maninder S. Gill        Benoit Paul Blarel
Project Team Leader:       David A. Bontempo       David A. Bontempo
NCO Team Leader:           David A. Bontempo
NCO Primary Author:        Petra Vehovska



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                     Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived                 DO               IP              Disbursements
                                                                  (USD millions)




                                            ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design
(drawing from PAD, briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance, development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation
arrangements, risk analysis, and quality at entry)

1.1. Country and Sector Background

The Slovak Republic's entry into the European Union in May 2004 and subsequent access to
enhanced allocation of EU structural funds have made an immediate positive impact on the
country's agricultural sector performance. Of the total EU funds, two-thirds were allocated to
direct payments and so-called "top-ups" (additions to direct subsidy payments from the state
budget), with only one-third allocated to interventions for "Less Favored Areas." This allocation
of support was appropriate in the immediate post-Accession period in order to assist the larger
farm operations to be competitive in the new circumstances.

EU Leader Program. The 'Leader' program of the EU is completing its final phase - the so-called
"Leader+" program (Leader I and Leader II preceded Leader+). The Leader program provided
member states with funding for new approaches to sustainable rural development by
"encouraging and helping rural actors to think about the longer-term potential of their area. It
sought to encourage the implementation of integrated, high-quality, original strategies for
sustainable development designed to encourage experimenting with new ways of: enhancing the
natural and cultural heritage; reinforcing the economic environment, in order to contribute to job
creation; and improving the organizational abilities of their community."

EU Leader Axis within the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). For
the 2007-2013 programming period, the EU will be re-orienting its rural development support
policies, according to three 'axes' under a single new funding instrument, the EAFRD. These
axes are: "Axis 1 ­ Improving the Competitiveness of the Agricultural and Forestry Sector;"
"Axis 2 ­ Improving the Environment and the Countryside;" and "Axis 3 ­ The Quality of Life in
Rural Areas and Diversification of the Rural Economy." In addition, the EAFRD contains a
Leader Axis (Axis 4) which must be contained in each country program to finance the local
groups and their activities under each of the 3 main axes. Slovakia has a possible allocation of
approximately EUR 74.5 million (public funding) for projects falling under the Leader Axis. The
Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) under the previous government strongly believed that the Leader
approach and the projects it would finance would be the key intervention to realize the potential
of the rural areas. For this to happen, the capacity of a number of agencies active in rural areas
needed to be enhanced throughout the country. These included for example, local governments,
regional offices of the Agriculture Paying Agency (APA), regional offices of the Agency for
Rural Development (ARVI), local agriculture chambers, NGO Rural Parliament and other
NGOs), whose efforts were not well-coordinated, and there was a lack of the specific skills
required to access this new source of funds

In addition to capacity enhancement at the local level, there was a need to develop the capacity of
the central government authorities responsible for the EU-funded Leader Axis. In particular,
MoA's capacity to undertake program preparation for the Leader approach, and its subsequent
implementation, needed strengthening.




                                                 2

1.2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

Since Spring 2005, the Bank and MoA had been discussing the opportunities for direct support to
prepare for rural development funding opportunities within the Leader Axis. The rationale for
Bank involvement was the Bank's international experience with the "community driven
development" model. In addition a productive dialogue between the Bank and the Slovak
Government in the agriculture sector in past years led to the previous government's request for a
Bank loan. Furthermore, according to EU regulations in place at the time of preparation and
negotiations of the project, EU funds available in the ongoing programming period could not be
used for preparation of projects and institutional strengthening for the next programming period.
Therefore, MoA requested the Bank to help develop a technical assistance project to be financed
with a Bank loan.



1.3.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lending Instrument

The Technical Assistance loan for EUR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) was designed to
finance primarily technical assistance and training. The Project was financed by a second TA
loan under the EU8 "Social and Institutional Development and Economic Management Technical
Assistance Program (SIDEM) for Eligible Members of the European Union (APL)". Since the
requirement under the Slovak Budget Law that all income and expenditures of the State pass
through accounts in the State Treasury precludes the establishment of a separate special account
for a project and payments directly from the loan account, disbursements under all World Bank-
financed operations in the country are on a reimbursement basis. Although there were no
disbursements under the loan at the time of loan cancellation due to this reason, a number of
Project activities had been completed and financed by the Government through the Slovak
budget. As a result, the Project achieved a number of the agreed goals ( see "Progress Prior to
Cancellation" discussion, in each of the Project components below).

2. Program Objectives

N/A

3. Project Development Objective

The objective of the Project was to assist the MoA and its subordinate organizations, as well as
local governments, communities and civil society organizations, to develop their capacity to
prepare for and implement the EU Leader axis in the period 2007-2013. The project aimed to
ensure that strategies, policies, and institutional arrangements were adequate to ensure maximum
uptake and effective utilization of EU funds, in particular under the Leader axis, during the 2007-
2013 period.

4. Implementation Arrangements

During Project preparation it was agreed that the Project would be implemented by the MoA with
a Project Team to be established within MoA to coordinate project implementation. This was in
line with the World Bank's efforts to move to greater use of country systems and build capacity



                                                   3

in the implementing institutions rather than establishing stand alone PIUs/PCUs. In addition, a
Working Group of key technical professionals within the MoA and its associated agencies was
formed to assist with project implementation.

5. Project Components

The project had four components.

COMPONENT 1: Creation of Policy and Administrative Framework (US$475,000)

The objective of this component was to create the framework for policy-making processes and
administrative decision-making within MoA, and between the MoA and its associated national
and local level institutions, municipalities (and other local governmental structures), and
communities. The component aimed to provide technical assistance to:

    1. define the appropriate level of delegation of decision making power under the Leader
         Axis;
    2. assess the capacities of local- and regional-level administrative authorities to implement
         the Leader approach and provide recommendations on developing their capacity to
         requisite levels;
    3. propose the most suitable co­financing system within the new Leader Axis;
    4. assist national and local authorities to prepare all initial strategic documents needed for
         implementation of the Leader axis, with specific reference to proposals for the 'checklist'
         for the APA;
    5. develop criteria for selection of the Local Action Groups (LAGs) to be eligible for
         funding under the Leader Axis, and develop "Guidelines for Local Strategy
         Development" and "Guidelines for LAG operations," and
    6. based on the foregoing analyses and recommendations, build the technical capacity
         (through focused training) in MoA, APA and local institutions so that they will be able to
         implement the new Leader axis effectively.

Progress Prior to Cancellation: Under this component, a study on the optimal level of
decentralization of decision- making was carried out. The study helped to define an optimal
system of co-financing in the LEADER axis, including financial contributions from the higher
territorial units, municipalities and other NGOs. The study also recommended options for
financial flows between the LAGs, Payment Agency and the Management Authority (MoA).

In addition, an Operational Manual for LAGs was produced, establishing the background and all
necessary conditions required for LAG operations and providing the nascent LAGs with a clear
set of rules for formation, composition, and operations. The manual also defined the composition
of the managing body, and the evaluation committee for selecting projects and monitoring and
financial framework of LAGs operations. On the basis of this study, the MoA will produce a
separate document which will be made available to the LAGs.

In addition, training for rural stakeholders on the LEADER approach was provided to improve
the efficiency and utilization of EU funds available under the Leader Axis.


COMPONENT 2: Mapping (US$70,000). In order to properly target the regions of the country
which are most suitable for implementation of Leader axis projects, it was necessary for MoA (as


                                                 4

the Managing Authority (MA)) to have as much detail as possible about individual micro-
regions. To this end, the main goal of this component was to create a specialized map of the
rural areas in the Slovak Republic, with specific delineation of possible micro-regions which
could be eligible for inclusion in the Leader Axis, according to the relevant criteria from the EU.
The mapping also aimed to help the municipalities define the opportunities for cooperation
among themselves.

The main tasks under the component were to:

    1. undertake analysis of completed and/or ongoing studies on rural areas in the Slovak
        Republic, using existing data to determine the main development priorities and needs of
        rural regions from the Leader perspective (many previous studies exist, but none of them
        focused on this aspect); and
    2. based on the above, develop a tailored map of Slovak rural areas which would be most
        suitable for implementation of the Leader approach.

Progress Prior to Cancellation. Completed and ongoing studies analyzed the applicability of
the bottom-up approach in Slovakia in the 2007-2013 programming period.

COMPONENT 3: Formation and Training of LAGs and Implementation of Pilot Projects
(US$880,000). In all countries implementing the Leader approach, while the Managing Authority
retains overall control of the program, a LAG is the administrative unit ultimately responsible
for implementing Leader projects. According to EU regulations, a LAG should represent no more
than 100,000 and not less than 10,000 persons. The LAGs' responsibilities include project
screening and approval, monitoring (both physical and impact), payments, etc.

At present, there are no formal LAGs constituted in Slovakia. As a result of TA financed by EU
pre-Accession funds, 11 'working groups' from different micro-regions across the country have
received training and assistance with local development plan formation. Under the Project,
technical assistance was foreseen to be provided to selected groups, as some of them are far
enough along in their development that they could ultimately become fully functioning LAGs.

In addition, based on the mapping, the project aimed to provide TA in all eligible areas of the
country, to form, in total, at least 10-12 fully functioning LAGs by the end of 2006. At that time,
the Government was to undertake a formal "Call for Proposals" from all legally registered LAGs.
The allocation of funding to the LAGs was to be made according to these proposals, based on
quantitative criteria developed in Component 1. In addition to forming and training the LAGs,
the other core objective of this component was to undertake a number of pilot projects utilizing
the Leader approach in at least three regions.

Progress Prior to Cancellation. None of the activities planned under this component were
carried out. However, it should be noted that MoA will, during 2007, undertake additional
training focused on strategy formulation and the use of the Operational Manual to prepare
potential LAGs for the future.

COMPONENT 4: Creation of National Rural Network (US$75,000). For the 2007-2013
period (and for the longer-term future as well), Slovakia needed to have a formal 'National Rural
Network,' to serve as the Leader Contact Point and rural information and data collection center
for the country. It was foreseen that the lead organization for the new Network will be the ARVI,
a budgetary agency of MoA, tasked with supporting a broad range of rural development activities



                                                   5

throughout the country.

In the context of the implementation of the Leader Axis, the goal of this component was to create
the framework for the National Rural Network in the Slovak Republic. In the short-term, the Bank
aimed to provide expertise to assist ARVI to develop its vision for the future, including strategic
directions and mission statements, staffing plans, budgets, etc. Technical assistance to the MoA
was to help it undertake a broader assessment of all rural actors, responsible authorities/persons,
and administrative requirements necessary to make the Network functional and manage its
operations.

Progress Prior to Cancellation. An analysis of the current institutions responsible for rural
issues - especially focused on the ARVI ­ was carried out, which helped define areas where
investments in human capital and other resources are needed and also proposed an administrative
and financial framework of the future institution, which will administer the National Rural
Framework. The analysis also made recommendations on the restructuring of ARVI in order to
be able to meet future demands.



2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

Post-Approval Experience. The loan became effective on March 16, 2006, two weeks after the
legal agreement was signed. Given the relatively tight time frame for the project, the MoA was
committed     to    start with   the   implementation     of  project   activities   as   soon   as
possible. However, soon after loan effectiveness, early parliamentary elections were announced,
with the elections being shifted from September 2006 to June 2006. As a result, the Government
made a decision that all the public procurement would be put on hold until after the elections.

However, due to the strong commitment of the Government to the Project, the MoA was granted
an exception, with some of the procurement under the Project being allowed to commence.

The overall Post-Approval experience was positive. As noted in the Project Description
section above, the Project was able to achieve a number of its planned activities prior to
cancellation. This was largely due to the strong performance of the Borrower's team in the MoA,
as well as the consistent support from the Slovak Country Office, and the team in Bank
Headquarters(see Sections 8 and 9 on Bank and Borrower Performance).

Reasons for Cancellation. The primary reason for the cancellation (as stated in the Minister of
Finance's cancellation request in a letter of October 16, 2006) is the availability of funding from
the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) (Guarantee Section). The
EAGGF are grant funds and are therefore "free." At the time of Loan Approval, guidelines from
the EU on the use of these funds after 2006 were not clear. The new Government decided to
substitute Bank loan funds with the grant funds that became available.

It should be noted that the Project Objective remains valid; preparation for the Leader Axis
remains critical for utilization of the next phase of EU funding (from 2007-2013) and the
Government expects to implement the key activities planned under the Project. Examples
include, inter alia:



                                                 6

     · Call for Proposals for LAGs will take place as scheduled in early 2008;
     · The proposal for the Financial flow model between LAGs, MoA and APA is completed,
         but will be modified based on stakeholder comments, and approved later in 2007;
     · Training on the Operational Manual for LAGs will be undertaken in the first part of
         2007; and
     · A National Rural Network, with ARVI as its core, will be formed in 2007, similar to the
         Project plan.



3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


Project preparation built on the Bank's good working relationship with the MoA. The MoA
wished to process a Loan quickly because there was some urgency to prepare the necessary
structure for the Leader Axis implementation. The technical staff in MoA responsible for
preparing for Leader had already developed a good working knowledge of the principles and
practices of these activities through numerous study tours to other parts of Europe, as well as
through regular interaction with the European Commission in Brussels. In addition, under the
TA SAPARD Program, a number of communities had been intensively involved in developing
the so-called "Local Development Strategies," which are prerequisites for funding of local
initiatives under Leader. The Bank team therefore worked closely with the relevant technical
staff of MoA to ensure that Project design took account of this existing experience. This
emphasis delivered a Project design which focused on filling some gaps, particularly in
methodologies for operation of the required administrative structures, as well as providing a
broader scope of training for authorities at all levels.

Because much of the Project procurement was to be done in the first 12 months of the Project,
supervision largely focused on procurement advice. As such, the Senior Procurement
Specialist (PS) in Headquarters was the most important team member during the supervision
phase. The team in MoA was very proactive and strongly committed to following proper Bank
procedures but lacked experience in undertaking procurement according to Bank guidelines. The
Senior PS therefore provided intensive day-to-day interaction with the MoA team to ensure that
the procurement activities were carried out properly. As of cancellation, all procurement under
the Project was consistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines.

In addition, the Operations Analyst in the Slovak Country Office and the Team Leader provided
regular technical and administrative guidance.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


The Borrower's performance during preparation and implementation albeit without withdrawing
loan funds, was Highly Satisfactory. MoA had already begun a number of activities to prepare



                                                   7

for Leader Axis implementation, led by a core team in the Ministry's Department of Structural
Policy, with primary responsibility for these tasks. This core team was also given the
responsibility to implement the Bank-financed Project. This was a significant benefit, as the
MoA team already had a strong working knowledge of Leader Axis issues and solid working
partnerships with the relevant officials in Brussels. As a result, the teams worked together
quickly and efficiently to identify and prepare the Project. The resulting Project design was
appropriate to fill the remaining needs with regards to Leader.

In addition, the Project received consistent support from the Minister, the Director General of the
APA, and the Director of MoA's Foreign Relations Department.

Although the MoA team lacked experience in Bank procurement, they had experience with
Slovak procurement and followed the Bank's procurement guidelines. The Ministry also
engaged, on a part-time basis, a Slovak procurement specialist who was familiar with Bank
procurement rules, to assist the MoA team to learn the procedures more quickly. As noted in the
previous section, all procurement under the Project prior to Cancellation was in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines.

Overall, the Borrower's team showed a very high degree of professionalism, proactivity, and
motivation, throughout both preparation and implementation. If the new leadership of MoA
continues to attach priority to Leader Axis preparation, the Project Team is competent to
complete these activities.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application):

Because of the early cancellation of the Project, many of the expected project-specific lessons
will not be learned. In particular, a number of 'pilot' sub-projects to test the various instruments
(e.g. the Operational Manual) and procedures (e.g. the funds flow between the LAGs and the
MA), will not be implemented and MoA will not have the planned lessons from these pilots, in
order to make necessary refinements prior to full-scale Leader Axis implementation.

Nevertheless, a number of lessons can be drawn from the experience of the Project.

1) The Bank's involvement helps to leverage broader participation. From the client side, one
important aspect of the Bank's involvement was the substantial interest on the part of reputable
European and international firms in the various tenders compared to what MoA had seen in the
past. The client rated their experience with the international TA as highly favorable.

2) Clients value Bank procurement rules. The client found the Bank's procurement rules to be
valuable overall. In particular, they appreciated the speed (compared to national procedures) and
transparency under the Bank's guidelines.

3) Bank assistance improves intra-agency cooperation. The APA reported that because of their
close cooperation in Project design, they learned a great deal more about Leader, which was
crucial to be done as soon as possible, as they were the MA. In addition, the Project helped
create new networks of cooperation between APA and other units of MoA.




                                                  8

4) Where feasible, mainstreaming PIUs is desirable. Mainstreaming the Project management
function within the relevant line Ministry is the optimal approach.

Finally, the very short period between Identification and Negotiations demonstrated that,
with skilled Bank and Government teams in place, and a focused intervention, projects can be
prepared quickly, without sacrificing quality.




                                                  9

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Assistance/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                   Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
David A. Bontempo      Operations Analyst      ECSSD              Task Team Leader
Holger A. Kray         Sr Sector Economist     ECSSD
Helen Z. Shahriari     Sr Social Scientist     ECSSD
Maria V. Vannari       Sr Procurement Spec.    ECSPS
Petra Vehovska         Operations Analyst      ECCSK

Iwona Warzecha         Sr Financial
                       Management Spec.        ECSPS

Supervision/NCO
David A. Bontempo      Operations Analyst      ECSSD              Task Team Leader
Claudia M. Pardinas
Ocana                  Sr Counsel              LEGEC

Maria V. Vannari       Sr Procurement Spec.    ECSPS

Petra Vehovska         Operations Analyst      ECCSK              Day-to-day Client
                                                                  Support

Iwona Warzecha         Sr Financial
                       Management Spec.        ECSPS


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 No.       Date ISR Archived        DO IP          Actual Disbursements (USD M)


(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY05                                                           22.95
                    FY06                                                           43.37
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                         Total:                                    66.32
Supervision/NCO
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            7.98
                    FY07                                                            9.75
                                         Total:                                    17.73




                                             10

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents




                                    11

