Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1710 
Project Name 
Leader Preparation Technical Assistance Project (under the 
SIDEM Facility) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P090884 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SLOVAKIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Dobrovicova 12 
Slovak Republic 
81266 
Tel: 421.2.5926.6275 Fax: 421.2.5926.6585 
karol.zimmer@land.gov.sk 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 23, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 30, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
September 9, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Slovak Republic’s May 2004 entry into the European Union, and subsequent access to its 
full allocation of EU structural funds, appears to have made an immediate positive impact on the 
country’s agricultural sector performance. Compared with the period from 2000-2003, which 
saw average total losses in the sector of approximately EUR 20 million, 2004 saw a sector-wide 
profit of some EUR 15 million.  While it is true that very favorable weather conditions (and 
hence very good crop and livestock yields) in 2004 contributed to this profitability, there is no 
question of the impact of the EU funds.  Of the total EU funds, two-thirds were allocated to 
direct payments and so-called “top-ups” (additions to direct subsidy payments from the state 
budget), with only one-third allocated to interventions for “Less Favored Areas”. This allocation 
of support is appropriate in the immediate post-Accession period, in order to assist the larger 
farm operations to be competitive in the new circumstances.    
 
However, for the plans for the next EU funding period, from 2007-2013, there will need to be a 
re-orientation of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Slovak Republic (further as MoA) strategy. 
Because of EU requirements, the amounts allocated for direct payments will decrease 
substantially, whereas amounts for rural development will be increased.  ‘Rural development’ in 
this context implies a reduced importance on agriculture 
per se
,
and could include, 
inter
 
alia
,
payments for: agri-environment schemes; agro-forestry; environmental services; conservation; 
rural tourism; small-scale local infrastructure; and other local or regionally-based activities 
which allow rural inhabitants to diversify their income sources. 
 
Page  2
EU Leader Program
.
The ‘Leader’ program of the EU is completing its final phase - the so-
called “Leader+” program (Leader I and Leader II preceded Leader+).  The Leader program 
provides member states with funding for new approaches to sustainable rural development.  The 
Leader approach seeks to “encourage and help rural actors to think about the longer-term 
potential of their area. It seeks to encourage the implementation of integrated, high-quality, 
original strategies for sustainable development designed to encourage experimenting with new 
ways of: enhancing the natural and cultural heritage; reinforcing the economic environment, in 
order to contribute to job creation; and improving the organizational abilities of their 
community.” 
 
In the pre-Accession period, Slovak Republic did not participate in Leader. The program is rather 
complicated to implement, considering the large amount of capacity which is required in rural 
areas. To-date, Slovak authorities have focused their efforts on ensuring the access to funding for 
agriculture.  
 
EU Leader axis within the EAFRD
.
However for the 2007-2013 programming period, the EU 
will be re-orienting its rural development support policies, according to three ‘axes’ under a 
single new funding instrument, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development 
(EAFRD).  Under the EAFRD, each country program will need to contain a separate ‘Leader’ 
axis to finance the local groups and their activities under each of the 3 main axes.  Slovakia has a 
planned allocation of between EUR 150-200 million for projects falling under the Leader Axis.  
The Ministry of Agriculture strongly believes that the Leader approach, and the projects it 
generates, will be the key intervention to address ongoing difficulties in the rural areas.  For this 
to happen, there will need to be a very large investment in enhancing the capacity of local 
authorities throughout the country. There are a number of organizations active in rural regions 
(including e.g. Rural Parliament, local governments, regional offices of the Agriculture Paying 
Agency, regional offices of the Agency for Rural Development, local agriculture chambers, 
NGOs and others), but their efforts are not well-coordinated, and in any case, they lack the 
specific skills which would be required to access this new source of funds.  
 
In addition to capacity enhancement of the regions, there is an immediate need to develop the 
capacity of the central government authorities. At present, MoA is far short of the capacity to 
undertake program preparation for Leader approach, or the subsequent implementation. 
 
While the immediate funding available under Leader+ should not be underestimated, EAFRD 
requirements are an even more important reason for Slovakia to enhance its capacities for this 
type of intervention.  Although the current EU programming document is not explicit, it seems to 
imply that without a Leader-type capacity, country programs will not be able to be approved.  In 
any case, 7% of the total funding for the next period is set aside for Leader-type interventions, so 
having this capacity is critical.  Further, a 3% fraction of the total EU allocations will be 
withheld in a reserve, to be distributed in the final years of the programming period to those 
member states  having most successfully implanted and operated Leader-type programs. 
 
Page  3
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the project is to assist the Ministry of Agriculture of the Slovak Republic and its 
local authorities, as well as local governments, communities and civil society organizations, to 
develop their capacity to prepare for and implement the EU Leader axis in the period 2007-2013.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Since 2002, the World Bank has assisted Slovakia’s agricultural policy-makers to produce 
analyses of various aspects of the country’s agricultural performance. In early 2004, the Ministry 
of Agriculture of the Slovak Republic requested the Bank to cooperate on a new assessment, to 
address constraints to economic growth in three regions which are underperforming. The goal at 
that time was to provide a tool to assist policy-makers to develop comprehensive integrated rural 
development strategies which are sensitive to regional differences. 
 
Although some internal Bank effort had been expended to begin such an assessment, since early 
2005, it is clear that the MoA is now interested in investigating the possibilities of direct support 
from the Bank, to prepare for rural development funding opportunities arising within the Leader 
Axis (Axis 4) of the new European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) (2007-
2013). 
 
The Bank is particularly well-suited to assist in this preparation.  The Leader approach is very 
much comparable to a “community driven development” model, and the Bank has extensive, 
world-wide experience in this field. In particular, numerous projects have demonstrated the 
possibilities to channel substantial amounts of funding through local agencies, while avoiding 
corruption, and this is an important concern to the MoA.   
 
4. Description 
 
The project would have four components: 
 
Component 1: Creation of Policy and Administrative Framework (EUR 405,000)
The objective of this component is to create the framework for policy-making processes and 
administrative preparation between the MoA and its associated national and local level 
institutions, municipalities (and other local governmental structures), and communities. The 
component would provide technical assistance to:  
(i) 
define a system of delegation of decision making power – level of centralization, in 
terms of Leader approach (in terms of control, monitoring, projects selection, etc); 
(ii) 
assess the status of local level structures, specifically their capacities to implement the 
Leader approach, and subsequently provide clear recommendation on how to improve these 
structures; 
(iii) 
propose the most suitable co–financing system within the new Leader axis; 
(iv) 
assist national and local authorities to prepare all initial strategic documents needed 
for implementation of the Leader axis, with specific reference to proposals for the ‘checklist’ for 
the paying agency; and 
Page  4
(v) 
based on the foregoing analyses and recommendations, build the technical capacity 
(through focused training) in the Ministry, paying agency and local institutions so that they will 
be prepared to implement the new Leader axis.  
 
Component 2:  Mapping (EUR 181,000).  
The main goal of this component is to create the 
map of Slovak republic with possible microregion territories according to the criteria from the 
EU regulation for Leader approach.  
 
This component will help the Managing authority to know more about individual microregions 
and to choose the right territories for support. It will also help the municipalities in defining their 
opportunities for cooperation among themselves.
 
The main tasks under the component are to:  
(i) 
assess existing studies on rural areas in Slovak republic to define the main needs of 
rural regions from the Leader perspective; and 
(ii) 
develop a map of Slovak rural areas which would be most suitable for implementing 
the Leader approach. 
 
Component 3:  Pilots (EUR 467,000). 
The objective of this component is to undertake a 
number of pilot projects utilitzing the Leader approach in at least three regions.  The pilots will 
allow MoA authorities to obtain some practical experience with this new rural development 
approach prior to the full implementation period in 2007-2013.  
In addition, this component also has the key task of forming and training the Local Actions 
Groups which will implement Leader projects.
 
Component 4: Creation of National Rural Network (EUR 97,000).  
The objective of this 
component is to create the framework of the National Rural Network in the Slovak Republic, 
through a determination of the main rural actors, responsible persons, and functional 
requirements for managing the network. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
1.4 
 Total 
1.4 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Partnership arrangements 
 
There are no other agencies involved in financing this project. 
Page  5
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The duration of the project is 18 months, with completion expected at the beginning of the year 
2007.  The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Slovak Republic 
(MoA), as the implementing body.  The Project will not establish an implementation unit outside 
of the ministry.  Rather, responsibility for coordination of project implementation as a whole 
shall be carried out by a Project Director, established within the MoA implementing body.  To 
assist the Director, a Project Deputy Director and Procurement Specialist will be appointed 
within MoA.  In addition, to ensure proper function of the financial management aspects of the 
project, two additional persons within MoA will assist the core team: 
·
one employee from the Budgetary and Closing Account Department within MoA 
(Financial Manager), who will closely cooperate with the Project Deputy Director on 
financial issues; 
·
one employee from the Agricultural paying agency (Coordinator for APA) who will 
cooperate on project relating paying and monitoring issues;  
 
A
Steering Committee for Leader axis will be established within MoA to provide overall 
guidance and direction of the project as a whole. 
 
The Project Director, Deputy Director and the Procurement Specialist will work closely with 
each other and the members of the Steering Committee for Leader axis and other governmental 
staff involved in implementation of the project to ensure its proper implementation.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project design is based on the detailed proposal of the Borrower for assistance to develop 
their capacity to manage the Leader axis funding during the next EU programming period from 
2007-13.  This includes evaluation of the policy preparation process and development of further 
strategies to implement innovative rural development approaches through Leader.   
 
In addition to the capacity building, a key part of the project will be the establishment of 
fundamental conditions for operation of the Leader program.  This includes processes and 
procedures for central MoA authorities, local governments, and the Local Action Groups 
themselves.  Further, the project will provide a number of assessments which will contribute to 
developing further strategies for effective implementation of future “bottom-up” types of rural 
investments. 
 
From a practical standpoint, diversification of rural livelihoods – at least through EU funding 
instruments - will increasingly rely on the Leader approach.  Therefore, assuming that the above-
mentioned capacity development is achieved, and the procedural guidelines provide 
comprehensive and straightforward guidance on preparation and implementation of projects 
under the Leader axis, the long-term sustainability of the project is highly likely.  . 
 
From a purely financial standpoint, the loan of EUR 1.2 million is expected to prepare the 
ground for at least EUR 150 million in funding through the new Leader axis for rural livelihood 
diversification projects.  Assuming that even half of this money materializes, the financial 
Page  6
sustainability appears very good.  It is also noted that the loan will not provide any incremental 
resources to the MoA, but will be financed by the budget of the Ministry
.
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Bank has not previously supported a comprehensive rural development project in Slovakia.  
Nevertheless, during the last four years, the Bank and the Government have collaborated 
extremely well on agricultural policy dialogue and sector studies to prepare for EU Accession, as 
well as on a GEF Medium-sized Project (MSP) related to agriculture and biodiversity.  Project 
design takes account of the challenges facing policy-makers and rural inhabitants detailed in the 
publication, “Food and Agriculture in the Slovak Republic – the Challenges of EU Accession” 
(February 2003), and the “Study on Market Linkages in Slovakian Agriculture” (VUEPP Study, 
with Bank assistance, to be published Autumn 2005).  During implementation, the 
recommendations arising from the study on CAP reform options will inform the priorities for 
capacity building and training.   
 
On the agri-environment side, the lessons learned from the “Central European Grasslands 
Conservation and Management Project” (GEF MSP) provide important insights into new 
opportunities for rural inhabitants, and these lessons are incorporated in the project design. 
 
During project implementation, the team will coordinate as much as possible with the ongoing 
Bank work related to the new Living Standards Assessment (LSA), and its various modules.  
These include the analysis of labor market vulnerability, the PSIA of the tax reform, the poverty 
profile, and the socioeconomic mapping.  It is proposed that the team include the Bank’s social 
scientist who is also managing aspects of the LSA, which should help to ensure that the capacity 
building plans during implementation are properly oriented to improve policy-making to address 
rural poverty issues. 
 
Very importantly, project design draws on the experience of the Human Capital TA Project 
(HCTA) (2005), implemented jointly through the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of 
Labor, Social Affairs, and Family.  The HCTA design draws on the experience of the Public 
Finance Management Project (2003) and the Health Sector Modernization Project (2004).  These 
projects both have capacity building components that the proposed project can draw on during 
implementation.  
 
Broad lessons learned to-date from these and other capacity building loans indicate a few key 
preconditions for successful technical assistance.  These include: (i) strong project ownership in 
the implementing Ministries and other participating institutions; (ii) understanding of the 
rationale for the changes supported by the project; and (iii) clear goals which are communicated 
consistently to all relevant stakeholders.  These lessons are incorporated in the design of the 
project. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Page  7
T
he
Project as proposed is Category “C”, and does not trigger any safeguards (see the Integrated 
Safeguards Data Sheet, available in the World Bank InfoShop).  This is primarily due to the fact 
that the Project is almost entirely Technical Assistance, and will not finance any civil works.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
World Bank Project Appraisal Document (available August 2005) 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: David A. Bontempo 
Title: Operations Analyst 
Tel: (202) 473-5591 
Fax: (202 614-0698 
Email: Dbontempo@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
wb145764 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb145764\My Documents\SK All\SK New Rural Project 2005\PID\Project Information Document - Appraisal 
Stage.doc 
06/23/2005 2:50:00 PM 
 
