RESTRICTED
EeTI s  djfl00]pY            Report No. P-764
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE.
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
December 17, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTICN AND DEVEVOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EKECUTTIVE DIRECTORS OC A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIG OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENA-NCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$6.0 million -to
the Republic of Paraguay, to assist in the financing of a second highway
maintenance project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed Loan would be the second for highway maintenance
in Paraguay. In 1961, IDA extended a credit of US$6.0 million (12-PA)
for the reconstruction and paving of the Asuncion-Encarnacion road, for
the purchase of urgently needed road maintenance equipment, and for the
preparation of a master road maintenance plan with the help of consult-
ants. This credit was supplemented in 1964 by a loan of US$2,2 million
(396-PA) to cover increased construction costs of the project road.
The masber road maintenance plan, prepared in 1966 under the above
credit/loan and updated subsequently by the Govermnent, is the basis
for the four-year maintenance program which constitutes the proposed
project.
3.        The second highway maintenance project was ap1raised in Feb-
ruary 1969, and negotiations took place in Washington from July 22 to
July 25, 1969. The Government of Paraguay was represented at these
negotiations by Hr. Nicolas Pistilli, Director General of Vialidad (the
Hiohway Authori-ty), Mr. Antonio Arias, Director of Vialidad's road
maintenance depa;tment, Yr. Carlos Santacruz, Administrative Director
of Vialidad, and lMr. Juan Delgadillo, Economic Advisor to the Mfinistry
of Public Works and Communications. Presentation of the proposed Loan
to the Executive Directors had to be delayed until satisfactory assur-
ances were received regarding the Government's program for financing
-its investment outlays in the coming years (see paragraph 18 below).
4.        The proposed Loan would increase the Bank's total lending to
Paraguay to US421.9 million. In addition the Association has provided
US$21.4 million to Paraguay. The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Paraguay as of November 30, 1969:



-2-
Loan or                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Year        Borrower               Purpose                         Undis-
Number                                                          Bank  IDA  bursed
55     1951   Republic of Paraguay   Agriculture and Transport 4.5    -    -
12     1961   Republic of Paraguay   Roads                       -   6.0   -
47     1963   Republic of Paraguay   Cattle                      ._ 3.,6
396     1964   Republic of Paraguay   Roads                      2.2   -   0.6
437     1965   Administracion
Nacional de Nave-
gacion y Puertos     Port                       2.8   -   1.2
86     1966   Republic of Paraguay   Livestock                   -   7.5  0.6
443     1966   Re;public of Paraguay  Roads                      2.1   -   0.5
156     1969   Republic of Paraguay    Livestock *                -   4.3  4.3
620     1969   Republic of Paraguay   Livestock *                4.3   -   4.3
Total (less cancellations)                       15.9 21.4
of' which has been repaid to Bank and others     4.5
Total now outstanding                           11.4
Amount sold                          0.3
of which has been rapaid             0.1         0.2
Total now held by BanIc and IDA                 11.2 21.4
Total undisbursed                                 6.6  4,9 11.5
*t Not yet effective.
5.        Disbursements on the existing loans and credits on the whole
are proceeding on schedule. Although some of the projec.s had a slow
start, particularly the second road project, and some difficulties were
encountered in the execution of the port expansion project early this
year, at present none of them poses unusual problems in execution.   The
Bank is keeping close watch on the progress of the port expansion project
and is working with the Government to accelerate its pace of execution.
6.        The Government and IDA/Banl are discussing additional projects
in agriculture, education and tourism. The Government has also requested
the Bank to be the executing agency for a proposed transport survey to be
financed by UNDP, w-hich is expected to lead to further lending in the
transport sector.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.  Bor=o-rer:         Republic of Paraguay.
Purpose:           To assist in fin%ancing the capital expenditures
of a four-year highway maintenance program, plus
consulting services and a staff training prograra.
Amount:            The equivalent in various currencies of US$6.0
million.
Amortization:      In 20 years including a four-year period of
grace, in semi-annual installments beginning
February 1, 1974 and ending February 1, 1990.
IntereSt Rate:     7 percent per annum.
Commi-tment Charge: 3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the nroject is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Highway IXintenaxice
Project" (PTR-230).
9.        The proposed project would consist of a four-year program
('970-73), for tae continuation, improvement and expansion of maintenance
operations on national roads. The program would be implemented with the
assistance of consultants and would include the purchase of maintenance,
shop and other equipment, the expansion and improvement of workshops and
training of local personnel.
10.       The project would be executed by the Department of Highways
(VIALIDAD), under the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (14OPC'-,
v_cdh is responsible for planning national roads and for maintaining four
of Paraguay's five maintenance districus (maintenance in the Chaco region
is carried out by the Army Corps of Ehgineers). To correct some of
Vialidad's organizational and operational deficiencies, a law was passed
in July 1969 providing for reorganization of the entity. Vialidad's
personnel is, in general, competent, but the organization has been under-
staffed, largely because of the generally lower salaries paid in the
public administration as compared to the private sector. The Government
intends to offer more attractive salaries and to initiate an active re-
cruitment program to overcome this problem.  In addi-tion, the inclusion
in -the proposed loan of an item for the training of personnel would con-
tribute to further improvemen-t in the operational efficiency of Vialidad.



- 4 -
11.       The total estimated cost of the four-year maintenance program
would amount to US$13.1 million, of which US$6.3 million represents -che
estimated capital expenditures, and US$6.8 million equivalent the recur-
rent local currency cost. The proposed Bank loan would finance the
foreign exchange component of the capital cost of the highway main-
tenance program, in the amount of US$5.5 million equivalent. The Govern-
ment would finance the balance of capital expenditures and all recurrnt
costs. The remaining US$0.5 million equivalent of the proposed Bank
loan would cover the foreign exchange costs of the staff training program
and of consulting services for supervision of the highway maintenance
program and for improvement of the administration and operations of
Vialidad. The Government has agreed to earmark specific revenues to
finance the local ex?enditures and to review with the Bank annually tl-he
proposed budgetary allocations for the four-year maintenance program,
in order to ensure adequate financing of the proposed project.   The
Government's draft 1970 budget for highway maintenance has been re-
viewed and found acceptable.
12.       The highwvay maintenance, workshop, and control equipment for
the proposed project would be procured on the basis of international
com-petitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's procurement policies.
The Government has invited a number of consultant firms to submit pro-
posals for the provision of services required for the project. The
terms of reference covering the services and the list of firms have been
approved by the Bank. The Government is expected shortly to negotiate
a contract with one of the firms (selected on the basis of proposals
received), and the conclusion of a satisfactory contract is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
13.       Although on the basis of the economic life of the mainten-
ance equipment to be procured under the program, a shorter term for the
loan would be wa^ranted, I consider the proposed term of 20 years, in-
cluding a four-year grace period, justified and suitable in view of
Paraguay's uncertain ba'Lance of payments prospects and difficult exter:Lal
debt situation.
14.       The economic rate of return of the highway main-tenance program
is betwieen 18 and 51 percent, depending on the assumptions made re-
garding estimated traffic growth and the extent of unit vehicle operating
cost savings, and the project is therefore well jusLified economically.
PART IV - LBGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(i;i) of the Articles of Agreement and the draft resolution
approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Ekecutive
Directors separately.



16.        The draft Loan Agreement contains provisions genrnally used
in highway maintenance projects. Furthermore, it provides that the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Accot'.nt may be
suspended by the Bank if the revenue earmarkiLg --range7nwnts Q'See
paragraph 11 aebzoe) are altercd without the prior agrcersent of the
Bank (Section 6.02).
PART V - THE ECONOIE
17.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Paragr_ayll (WIH-19Oc) was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors on June 2, 1P6Q. Iy report of June 3, 1969 (P-71C' to the Execu-
tive Directors on the proposed credit/loan for the third livestock
project contained a sizurary of the ii,ain conclusions of the economic
report. It specifically referred to recent actions taken and addit-
ional measures to be implemented during the remainder of 1969 to raise
fiscal revenues.
18.        Silce the reoort was written, the Paraguayan authorities have
continued to manage the public finances reasonably well. The Govern-
ment has decreed certain refonrs of the property tax and has submitted
to Congress a law modifying the income tax, which should provide the
necessary domestic resources to carry out the public investment program
in 1970. The Govemnment plans to go forward with an ambitious public
investment prograi in subsequent years and is contemplating the adop-
tion of additional tax measures during 1970 in order to raise the nec-
essary domestic resources.
19.        '-nlance of payments trends during 1969 have continued to be
adverse with exports stagnating, and imports rising, resulting in a
further drop in foreign exchange reserves. ihe Government is studying
a series of measures to help deal with this situation. We intend to
follow these developments closely.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEaMIET
20.        I am satisfied that the proposed Luan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VTU - RECOMMENDATION
21.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 17, 1969



