RET-'URN     TO                                         RESTRICTED
IREPORTS        D                   1                         Report No. PTR-23a
vWI~~~~~             ~ 1;' .1 u i ^f6.J  Qv
yv I I r-iiaiivI
I  e-xr w    -EK
%.e a                              _U _.  -   --
Th;i repo t wss prepared for use withn te Ran-a, nd t affI;.tedl ertnni7ntionn
|T-h-e-ydonot accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
Tno be puboishoce nor may ni be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A. SECOND HIGHWAY MA\INTENANCE PROJECT
TN A n A f-' TT A '.7
iDecemrber 0, :1969
Transportation Prc)jects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Uhit               = Guarani (0)
US$1.00                     = 126 0
a 1                         = US$0.008
% 1,000,000                 = US$7,936.50
Fiscal Year:
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)            = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km 2)   = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        = 0.98 1g. ton
1 metric ton (m ton)        = 1.1 US short ton
Totals may not add up because of rounding
Abbreviations
ADT                         - Average Daily Traffic
AID                         - United States Agency for
International Development
ANNP                        - Administracion Nacional de
Navigacion y Puertos
CI                          -   omimundo de Ingeniera
FME                         - Flota Mercante del Estado
MDPC                        - Ministr,v of Public Works
and Communications
VIALIDAD                    -  National Highway Department
PCAL                        - Presidente Carlos Antonio
Lonpe. R.Alwazv
UNDP                        - United National Development
ProArAmm.e -  npeciil mind



PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOIID HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONT2'TTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
l.    IM.TRODUCTION.. ..........*.a............ ... ... ...                  1
2*   BACKGROUND*O.................O...o.O                                    2
A.   The Country and Its Economy...........................oo           2
R_ The Transponnr+ Spe-toro    ;,,w-                                    2
C.  Transport Coordination..... ........... ....          00o..  0  0  4
3,    THE HIGHWAY SECTOR,oo..,o..s .......................
A.  The Highway Network......... . .o.. o o...............              5
rl  f116-4--- 1-4C    an A Grow"  of R^^w4 T^raff- 
t'o '.)L a1  U±JL .0  041.V U JVV uJ W.L 1. s4 ,L.L'0@00              v
C.  Highway Administration and Management...............               6
D    . Highway Planning and Fin.ancing . ......... *0000 a00 *O        6
E.  Highway Design and Construction.........................           7
'L. THi1AbJdy J  air               oeAe ..................  4 8
L.   MlTJ~1-P 1TY 1I" M 
44,   ITnz  T^t.n
A,   Description. 0    0 a 0 0. .  o t. a 0 0.& 0 9   o 0 0.*           9 .  0O.0.0
B1   Backgroundr.o.o    ...o.o*...*oo.e.....*. o..*....ooo..            9
Co Requirements. ..." ....................s.. . O         .  .         9
D.  ExecutionO..,, ................... ,OOS*  0 00.00 O0000           11
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing.................2.......         ,   2
.50   ECO^NON1   VAUAINe****eo****v§§e@                                     14
6.   REvUMMENDATIONS.LU ............0* *              00000 0000            17
ANNEX - Bank/IDA Projects in the Transport Sector and other
External Assistance for Highways
TABLES
1. National Highway Network
2. Vehicle Fleet
3. Diesel Oil and Gasoline Consumption
4. Expenditures on Highways since 1966 and User Contributions
5. List of Equipment and Materials to be Procured
6.  Vialidad Personnel Recqirements
7. Expenditures Forecast for Maintenance Program 1970-1973
8. Vehicle Cperating Costs
9. Summary of Benefit-Cost Analysis
CHART - Organization of Vialidad
MAP    - Eastern Paraguay, National Road Network
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alexander (engineer) and Schulte (economist)



'PDAP .TTA V
AflOnATOAT nv rF TCM Qe1Am T.TTOULTA V MATr1E,WMAITNC  DrCvTLTP
S urirjin 
i.        Up to the early 1950's Paraguay's road transport system was relatively
undeveloped and a factor retarding economic growth.    The Government has since
pursued programs in the transport field mainly aimed at building a basi.c infra-
structure..  Since 1951 the Bank Group has played a major role in assisting
these programs through five loans and credits for four projects involvi.ng roads
and a port, and totaling about US$ 14 million equivalent.    It also served as
Executing Agency for a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) study of ag-
riculturaL potential and road needs in Eastern Paraguay.
ii.       The transport system is now fairly well developed;   however, railway
operationis are uneconomic. and the nearlv eight-fold exDansion of the road net-
work since 1950 to its present 6,300 km length has not been matched by the main-
tenance effort, with thAe result that most roads are in poor condition and trans-
port costs are high.    Initial steps toward remedying the road maintenance prob-
lem were tak-en in the first road construction aMd maintenanne pnoject (Credit
12-PA/Loan 396-PA), under which some of the most urgently needed maintenance
er1inrnmi. uvan --,+hansed a1nd.a ma,st, r..air.+enar.ce plar. was prepared=  L f n- I-
year maintenance program (1970-1973) was recently developed from this plan and
is the ba:is for the Grvvernmentls request for a second highway r.+n7te.vifsO loan.
iii.   Theproposed project crsists of 4the foryar h-i.hw-      ma-inr.-r.ce
program wlhch is to be implemented with the help of consultants, and which pro-
vikdes for t=,e1 4,,.rove.-,en,t of' ma-nr.enance operatirs .eprhs  ofP .=;in4en=
ance, shop and other equipment, the extension and improvement of workshops and
twhe trainring of personrel.  The total capital cost of the program is estimated
at US$ 6.3 million equivalent toward which the Bank would provide US$ 6.0 mil-
lion equivalent, representing the foreign   exchange component, and the u(vern-
ment the remainder.    Over the four years of the program (1970-1973) the Gov-
ernment would also provide a total of about US$ 7 million equivalent in ear-
marked revenues from specific taxes to meet recurrent maintenance expendlitures.
Execution of the project will be the responsibility of The Ministry of rublic
Works and Communications (MOPC) through its National Highway Department (Viali-
dad).   The proposed project will provide a suitably staffed and equipped or-
ganization capable of maintaining the existing and future road network under
the MOPC;s responsibility and thus of reducing overall road transport costs.
The economic rate of return for the maintenance program, in terms of reduced
vehicle operating costs alone, is estimated to range from 18% to 51% depending
on the assumptions made regarding the estimated traffic growth and the extent
of unit vehicle operating cost savings.
iv.       While, on the basis of the purchasing schedule of equipment and its
economic life a shorter term would be warranted, the proposed term of *the loan
of US$ 6.0 million would be 20 years including a four-year grace period, on
country economic grounds.



r%A "lA II?TA U
rjiutua Y
ALrPrIULcAJJ OF xTo  iCOrdi' nDGnvJAY MA zrNI MKIWULU'   rQ u«CulJ
i.  ±NTROD±CTION
1.01      The Republic of Paraguay has requested a loan to help finance a four-
year prograim to improve highway maintenance.  This would be the fifth project
of the Ban]/IDA in the transport sector in Paraguay and the second for highway
maintenance.
1.02      The first Bank loan of US$ 5 million to Paraguay in 1951 was mainly
for an agriLcultural project, but it provided about US$ 1 million for equipment
to construct feeder roads.   In 1961 an IDA Credit of US$ 6 million (12-PA)
was made for the reconstruction and paving of the Asuncion - Encarnaciorn road
(330 km), the purchase of the most urgently needed road maintenance equipment
and the preparation of a master road maintenance plan.   This Credit was sup-
plemented in 1964 by Loan 396-PA of US$ 2.2 million to cover increased construc-
tion costs.   The master maintenance plan, prepared in 1967 under this Loan and
Credit and updated subsequntly by the Government, has been the basis for the
four-year maintenance program which constitutes the proposed orolect.
1.03      A road loan in 1966 of US$ 2.1 million (413-PA) is hA1nino to finnncA
the recanstruction and paving of the Coronal Oviedo - Villarica road (43 km)
and feasibilitv studies of about 45O km of roads.  The roads for study were
identified under a UNDP study which was carried out during 1964-67 on the agri-
cultural potential and road neA& of rastern Paraguay, the B.nk acting as Exe-
cuting Agercy.
1.04      In 1965, a loan of US$ 2.8 million (437-PA) was made for the port of
Asunnion.   ThiA prnvnct, has: beer. Adelayed .+vil recntl   byporotrctr
has   beer.  --W6~~~ LW%1V&AU.LJ  W.J  FW'.JL  UVA1J.±L.L  'LJI.L_
consultant-Port Authority relationships.   Details of the various Bank/IDA
transport projects and other external assistance for Li.---w-ayo are  Win tI 1he
attached Annex.
1n.05     This report was prepared by A '--   Alexander            and Schulte
(economist) on the basis of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in March 1968
and February 196°.              -



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. The Country and Its Econonw
2.01      Paraguay is a landlocked country in the middle of South America,
bordering on Bolivia to the north, Argentina to the west and south, and Blrazil
to the east., It is about 00,000 km2in area, i.e. about three-quarters of the
size of France. The country is divided by the Paraguay River, which is un-
bridged and crossAe Paraguay frnm north to south, Joining the Parana River at
Corrientes in Argentina. The two rivers constitute Paraguay's most important
tranansrt lI nk to the sea - West of the Psraigay Ri ver is the Ghaco;  a snarselv
populated region (245 000 km2) which, except in its desert-like northern part,
serves mostly for cattle raising and some agricultural production.East of the
river (160,000 km2) are the major population centers. About 80% of the country's
population of 2.2 million and most of the country's economic activity are lo-
cated in the "Triangle" roughly defined by Asuncion, the country's capital,
Encarnacion and Puerto Presidente Stroessner. The country is mostly flat or
gently rolling, the soil is generally good, with the exception of the northern
ChaGs. and the climnate allnws evar-rntind cnltivation.
2 02      Total fnP- eirnma+ted +. sahoui+. TTJ 500fl mi1nn inn equiJ-rl1ent. in 1Q695. has
grown at an average rate of 4.5% a year since 1962. The economy is mainly
hne  on ::crul+.l - n{(outN1+. 3I4S of presicent rnP)  inclui.qAng frenst+.rX and, in nmr-
~~~~~ ~~* ~bF <~~ ~ __v ---.. _-       "           w- .F           w - I--^ -
ticular, cattle raising.   Natural pasture lands are abundant, and beef exports
constiu+i+e 4the co*-+vry  m ,,,,sue o.f                                   q, ec&g  The  ndus-
trial sector is relatively small, accounting for about 15% of GDP; the nmain
activ~it,y is thae processir.g oil agricult-ural" prodduc-ts ar.%d, 4t-o a "lesser extenm, o
chemical products including the refining of imported petroleum. Per capita
.L44%,VLIAU iL abLJutA US$ C.L24  qu±Vd.tLL cllLU ar.d  iLs then loes   ir. SoLut  .LLc1 acpr  from
Bolivia and Equador.  The rate of population growth has been about 3.1% per annum
in the 1960's. Paraguay' s f-uture developmlenb pruspects are considered to be
relatively grood, with the overall economic growth estimated to continue at a
rate oI about 5%.
B. The Transport Sector
2.03      General:  The provision oI adequate transportation facilities will
continue to be important for the economic development of Paraguay. In view of
the uneven dlistribution of population in the country, the Government has pur-
sued an intensive internal colonization policy, and major transport links have
been provided to support these efforts and to integrate scattered centerS of
agricultural and industrial production into the national economy. As a result,
the transport sector has received the largest share of public investments in
recent years, and a solid core of transport infrastructure now exists. Empha-
sis is now to be given to the productive sectors of the economy, and care is
needed to select future transport investments in concert with specific develop-
ment programs, particularly as the Governmaent's financial resources are limited.
2.04      Road transport is the main mode of internal transport for goods and
passengers. Railway traffic has decreased continuously since the early 1.950's.
Internal river transport is unimportant except for timber rafting and some cab-
otage shipping on the Paraguay and Parana rivers. Domestic air transport is a
useful complement to surface transport, especially to outlying towns.



2.05      The main international transDort outlet is the Paraguav-Parana river
system which, under favorable water level conditions, can be negotiated lby small
Ocean-0oirng vnSsRl9 tim to the nort of AsirnGioni.  Most goodsn  htj-,v,r. have to
be transshipped at Buenos Aires (1,600 Km from Asuncion) which leads to high
transport costs.   About q95  of in+Arn"tirnnqa +traeide i8 qhinnti via this rtAo_+
which suffers, however, from sharp cyclical fluctuations of the Paraguay river's
w.ater level.   Tn, 1965 LTNP    a a      g   about- US$ 8nn,n00 eq-valent to
study the possibility of improving the navigability of the Paraguay river.     The
9+,,AvU.s ,.ot  - ..ret-A sae--uo TThTr%D.'P .-A 4t1he TTO of  ,e-
5'  £J a5'  £ wS. U  U U " U %7A  . a   IJIW4  QSLLA  UJLA   V UJ  %J. J ,L %J. 
cently been discussing the possibility of initiating it.    The recent completion
oWf ar. a1lw-weatker pa-VOC 7Igu-  con"nect-or f,o, P l.  arb-  bre    Qr-g
'S.L LA Q..L-~a~A~.L JGVU.L L~UWdJ LUUAV~L,.LUL%J..LUi L VI,1J La CL.V"rVUI~ UU.LL&. ;,LV.U6L
Brazil to the Atlantic port of Paranagua has provided a new link to the sea
which r,may become competitLie  With the river route, e.g. for  gh-value perish-
able export goods.
2.06      Highways: Paraguay's road network has grown nearly eight-fold since
lY>U.   It totalled 6,;250 In in 1968, of which aDout 650 IKm were pavea, L:,U0 
gravelled and 4,600 km earth surfaced.    Details of the highway sector are given
in Chapter 3.
2.07      Railways:  The state-owned Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez (PCOAL) rail-
way crosses the Triangle from Asuncion to Encarnacion (376 km) and links with
the Argentine railway (General Urquiza) by ferry boat.    The PCAL has a branch
line from San Salvador (about 170 km from Asuncion) to Abai (63 km).    Ilt is run
by a semi-autonomous Government agency under the responsibility of MOPC. Traf-
fic on the POAL railway has decreased continuously during the last two docades.
Passenger traffic has fallen from over 2 million per year in the early 1950's to
an average of about 170,000 annually in the period 1966-1968.    Goods traffic,
about 180,000 tons in 1959, averaged about 85,000 tons in 1967/68.    Operating
deficits have risen over the years to a level of nearly US$ 0.8 million equiva-
lent in 1968.
2.08      There appears to be little prospect of improving the railway's situ-
ation, given the short haul distances involved, low traffic volumes, and compe-
tition from parallel highways.    There has been recognition of this for some
years and expenditures have been limited to maintaining minimal services.     The
economic viability of the railway relative to road transport is now beinlg stud-
ied as part of the highway feasibility and engineering studies included Ln the
second road project under Loan 443-PA (para. 1.03 and Annex).    These should be
finished before the end of 1969 and are exDeted to provide a sound basis for a
decision to be taken by the Government on the future of the railway.    The Gov-
ernment has apreed that it will oonnslt with thA RAnk on thA finrdinos of thA
railway studies and on the implementation of any recommendations resulting
therAfrom e
2.09      TrlannndA TATe.p.rnys rA Po +Q * '1vH+ Paraa  ar¶.d .arara rir  are the"
main navigable rivers inside Paraguay.    There are a number of minor port1s along
bon+h rivra  handliAn  smarll volumes of local an'd some international traffic, but
Asuncion is the main port of the country.    Ports are managed by the semi-
autor.oo W2AA--.z 4 -srC on .a d ona. de3,4 - .,.-.4 - NA%Tht        M     -A.L. L  a..=ra
~~ J~UILLL    ~.L- ULa%...&ALAi   a  uLCI aCV .LrLXL.LL  3  L UV.L L.IJO  kalvNr Je  IVUb L  Lr lLJ..L
at Asuncion, including private piers, amounted to 400-500,000 tons per annum in
recent years, i.e. -ore than 90% of Paraguay's imports and about one-tird of
its exports.



- 4 -
2.10      State T-rc.hant. Flept! Paragliav's Flota Mrcante del Estado (i2ME) is
a semi-autonomous agercy and has one of the most modern merchant fleets in Latin
AmAr-iGaj eomvvprnino about 34 cargo ships (mninlnx of  _nr0n-ton Gnapni+.v) and two
passenger ships.    FME's annual traffic averages more than 200,000 tons and ac-
coIITI+Q for n'h^ll+ o%f -        ..i ro+tr- t  tota-l inmeort a-  nr-rt tonnags
Its operating deficit has been increasing in recent years, and was estimnated at
d- A0  l      _r. 1OA  fTTQ(U S   A    e4114 q  n
2 ..LA.   Air.L - Lt.VLWPUt:. FouL sma.. lL ar-agL-aayan airlir.es ensu.re aeuei
transport inside Paraguay and regular international flights to neighboring South
AmeUr.ican co1uUUt.ies.  L11e ±ir, 1   J. e t lJJV1r ,l.L aroU1tf .LU11 LO. i  EUL1viJ. UObing
provided with a new runway under a project financed by the US Agency for 'Enter-
national Development (AUDj).   Totai annual passeniger trallic at a-LUL;.Ll .sL
estimated at about 125,000 persons.     The volume of goods traffic is small.   No
data are available on the operating results of the airports or the airlines.
C.   Transport Coordination
2.12       Paraguay has not developed a comprehensive transportation poILcy, and
existing institutional arrangements for transport coordination are inadequate.
The Centra'l Planning Office (Secretaria Tecnica de Planificacion), which re-
ports directly to the President of the Republic, is responsible for ove:raLl
economic p'lanning, but is inadequately staffed and organized to serve as a co-
ordinating agency for the transport sector.     14OPC is responsible for roads and
also, in principle, for coordinating the activities of the semi-autonomous gov-
ernment agencies under its authority in other sub-sectors of the transport sys-
tem;  however, no coordination is apparent.     The statistical and planning of-
fices recently established by MOPC are poorly organized, understaffed, and do
not receive sufficient funds; at present they deal mainly with questions re-
lated to road transport and lack adequate information on the use of the various
transport modes.
2.13       Major investments in the transport sector that have been finalced by
external lendine institutions have been put to prior tests of economic feasi-
bility.   However, other investments are generally not subjected to suC]1 ana-
lysis.   A number of transport investments proposed by the Government are
questionable, particularly the continued extension and major improvement of the
Igiehway network into areas of little economic activitg, and the extension of
airport facilities.    In addition is the problem of the PCAL railway.
2.14      At the Bank's recommendation, the Government has agreed to seek tech-
rinnl assiqtawc   to nimnrn-rov  lnnnina fnvo he transrt sector h' (2x   e1i -kMish-
ing and initially operating an appropriate organization for transport policy
formio o+;n vnA coordi naton;  (b- Anwalnvira                ann'nnm4 p  n+_n and
…a_. -a.., - l _ _ _ v_ -- X / ----- -r-                        -      -V
criteria for (a);   (c) establishing a system for collecting and analyzinag infor-
r^+wion or. +vhe various ,a  me ,~ ar*-.d (Ad~ 4 A~fAv"A fA) identif -4 p -rior +r - vvr2+-
ments in the transport sector for a five-year period (1971-1975).      Discussions
are now n.derway Wi.LUhL UVv.ia io p.rVJ.U.V L.LcLaL-L.L assisar .Lce  UfLo  j.s j5La
which is estimated to have a foreign exchange cost of about US$ 430,000 equiva-
.lLU1.  If U1L'JLr uoes no-L, finance th1bis tech-ical assiStante, tLLe ITOv-7erl-,112MI3 has
agreed to make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.



3. T'E RTITAIiY AY STnOR
A    T-   Egh>..way Net+-orki (Table 17 -4ap )
1 Al     'T'1,n  +.,..1 ,, 'A  ^    4,,r 11oA$R +r.+t,1A 1D, h-v,+ ^ or  k  of ronads
classified by type of surface as follows: 640 km paved; 1,000 km gravelled;
and 41l4 r0 L..i earth.  Abt-`-4 foPn.4 4'h- E 4-o1-E t s road serv  W m Parc.agnan
~LJ.L  4j'A.(J~.LA  A. IJL   L&J'.J.ALL   J.LJU.4 .LJ.4.UJLVL&   UA~5.  ---'L.,-'_ .1J 
and radiate from the capital, Asuncion.   The main arteries are Asuncion -
Puertou PEXiert Stroessrier, --b-ch Js pa-red., Asuncion - Ercancir,4v, chIv
Iruu~ ur rt'Luio              WI" .ULA  J.L  i         -      ia&L,C.L1L%...LJJ.9  YJ.L"',L VJ.L
be comple-bely paved by the end of 1969, Colonel Oviedo - Bella Vista into the
northernr part of Paraguay t0o the nraZil anl border, aUnd tLe Trans-ChcUU roVd
from Asuncion to the Bolivian border at Mendoza.  Most other roads branch off
these arteries.   in addition, there are a few hundred kilometers of m_unci,al
roads and feeder roads within development areas, under the jurisdiction of local
authorities.   Provision is made in the project to complete and update road in-
ventories (para 4.09).
3.02      Mlost paved roads have been constructed in recent years, and they are
in good condition.   Most of the earth and gravel roads, which constitute the
bulk of the system, were originally built as tracks and, therefore, are poorly
aligned, Lack adequate drainage and are difficult to maintain; with the ex-
ception of those most recently constructed, they are in bad condition due to
inadequate maintenance.   Many gravel and earth roads are either impassable for
long periods after rain or are closed until dry to minimize damage to surfaces.
B.   Characteristics and &orwth of Road Traffic (Tables 2 and 3)
3.03      Data on highway traffic in Paraguay are scarce.  Only in 1966 and
1967 were systematic traffic counts on a number of major highways carried out.
Other data on individual road projects were developed in connection with feasi-
bility studies.   This information shows that in 1967 average daily traffic was
between 200 and 700 vehicles on the trunk roads from Asuncion to Puerto Presi-
dente Str(Dessner and to Encarnacion, and between 1,000 and 4,000 vehicles on
the aonroaches to Asuncion.   For the rest of the network, where data are avail-
able, traffic averaged less than 70 vehicles per day.
3.04      In the absence of systematic traffic counts over prolonged periods,
assumrtions about the past growth of highwav traffic have to be based on indi-
cators such as the evolution of the vehicle fleet and the consumption of gaso-
line anti dipqpl flile  Paragmay's vnbhinlh flAet (sAA Tqhlh 2) grerw at a rate
of 9.7% annually between 1957 and 1965, the only two years for which reliable
data-r a  available=  Grewth in 1966 nn 1QA7 is estimated to have beehn even
higher.   Gasoline and diesel fuel consumption (see Table 3) showed an annual
average iinvac ae of 10.3% betw+v.een 1955 and 1968.  Overa ll highway traffic has
probably jgrown at a rate of 9-10% annually.
3.05      The total vehicle fleet in 1967 was estimated at 18,000;  of these,
1 z nnn P700f     X        A1-;Cit-    1                  n1"-x,4 c& r1o  trS n{)R(;
'J'v IV.JU/ gl.L r         .    .                 U A     .. .CS-   _v
trucks and buses.   About 72% of the fleet is registered in the CentraL Depart-
ien-Lb, WL.UIL contains AsUnLLiLVon, 8% LIn   WIke  LJo. ItUapu, rn"l.L.1± iLU%.LUQs
the city of Encarnacion, and the remaining 20% in the other 13 departments.
The fleet growth rate in these latter departments has been mLuch faster in re-
cent years than in the Central Department which reflects the growing need for



motor transport in the outlying areas that were recently opened to new settle-
ment and development. Trucks range in size from 3 to 8i tons; with more thaun
half about ' tons. Although some very old vehicles are still in use, the aver-
age age of the vehicle fleet is probablv under eight years. The present fleet
represents an average of one vehicle to 122 persons, compared to 33 for the
whole of South America, and 11 for Argentin-n=
3.o6      Bus transport is highly competitive.   Bus companies are required to
be licensed and are run by individual owners or cooperatives. There are no
Gfovernment restrictions on. the number of truck'ing or bus cos'nies that c. be
established or fleets owned. Trucking for import and export traffic is large-
p-v rev ded by Argeoenti.r.e =4f "Bra-zili34r. co=apanies.  Internal t-ruckIng -s In the
~.1 - _  - ~     V             SL.Q&   % Aja       .~t I...I.  ILLtA1.LJ,  ±L  LU  I4
hands of a few small Paraguayan firms and individuals.
C. Highway Administration and Management
3.07      The responsibility for planning national roads lies with Vialidad
er. th,e OrG   For- manterarLce, the system is divided into five districts
(see Chart, hap and Table 1), four of which come under the responsibility of
Vialidad, while the fifth (the Chaco) is in the hands of a military unit called
the "Commando de Ingeniera" (CI).   Of the 6,250 km of roads comprising the
rnaioral network in 1968, Vialidad thus maintains 5,000 km.
3.08      Vialidad;s administrative procedures are cumbersome, and responisibili-
ties are not adequately established. It has insufficient staff due to poor
pay and working conditions. Accounting procedures are limited to recording
budget allocations and expenditure, and there is no performance or cost control.
Existing regulations limiting vehicle weights and dimensions aredn general
satisfactory, but they are not adequately enforced, due to the absence of a suit-
able organization, an appropriate schedule of penalties and sufficient weigh-
ing scales.  The Government, aware of these problems, assured the Bank during
negotiations that it would establish a schedule of penalties sufficiently
high to deter violation of the regulations and strengthen the organization
to enforce them. Additional scales will be purchased under the project.
3.09      Under the first road maintenance project, consultants made recojmmenda-
tions for correcting the above deficiencies, including the reorganization of
Vialidad; the Government and the Bank subsequently endorsed the recommen(iations.
The passage of legislation to bring about the reorganization was a prereqcuisite
to Bank consideration of the proposed project, and in July 1969 appropriate
legislation was enacted. In January 1969, as a first step in the reorganiza-
tion process recommended by the consultants, existing staff were repositioned
and some salary scales were improved. However, the lack of funds, as describ-
ed in the Section D below, has prevented augmentation of staff to the des:Lred
strength. During loan negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
would provide adequate funds and recruit suitable staff as described in paras.
3.14, 4.07 and 4.16.
D. Highway Planning and Financing (Table 4)
3.10      Construction of major modern highways started in 1960 with the im-
provement and paving of the Asuncion - P.P. Stroessner road under an AID loan,
followed by the paving of roads under Bank/IDA finn-noed road projects. Conn-
currently, anld in many cases with financial assistance from AID through



- 7 -
PL-480 programs, low standard earth roads were also constructed to serve and/
or open u) new settlement areas and to extend the network to bordering countries;
the most notable of these are the Trans-Chaco road (about 800 km) and the
Colonel Oviedo - Bella Vista road (about 400 km).
3.11      The 1964-1967 UNDP Study (para. 1.03 and Annex) was a first step to-
wards comprehensive transport planning, at least on a regional basis. Feasi-
bility ancd detailed engineering studies of Drioritv roads identified ur,der the
study are now being carried out under Loan 443-PA and could provide a basis for
additional  Bank lending for roads in 1971.  Cln a country-wide basis; major
bottlenecks to proper planning are the absence of a transport data collection
system ancl a suitable office to collect and analyze such data.  The assist-
ance requested from UNDP (para. 2.14) would help to improve this situation, and
to identifv nriorities in the highway secto  for +he nerviod 1071 -19   The
Governmenti has agreed that it will establish and maintain a suitably staffed
and eqe-Apped office to co,llect an.d analyrye infnr- +J r. for t.e pro pr plair.g
of the national road network.
3.12      Expenditures for road construction in 1966 were 6 630 million
(TTSc 5~ rl]ior. --i-alert) an.d are exected to be d 8-77 rlITTni (uS7.2 r^L,l
%W        -  n,  4 .L  L'U L MJ.a       i %A ) t u~ Kr v  I  A ILL.L.LLVII  k.UDqP  I .- IILLIL
lion equivralent) in 1969; maintenance expenditures for the same years, ex-
cl.Aud. ing mi&aJor equ.ipment pp-Urchases wh-iL UWL  Ich.hve been LLnarLiceu fro,n externaL sources,
are 6 121 million (US$ 1 million equivalent) and d 73 million (US$ 0.5 million
equivalent).   While construction expenditures on  new additions to the nat-
ional network have risen sharply over recent years, maintenance expenditures
declined and fell far short of meeting requirements.  Average annual mainte-
nance expenditures per km (including depreciation of equipment) are less than
US$ 200 equivalent,but would increase to about US$ 400 equivalent under the
four-year maintenance program, which would be more in line with the needs.
3.13      Construction has been financed by external borrowing (about 50%) and
the revenues of earmarked taxes, principally the 5% general surcharge on im-
ports.   Plaintenance has been financed from annual budget appropriations.
Revenues from the main road user charges, i.e. fuel taxes and road tolls, ex-
ceeded highway maintenance expenditures and met a substantial part of construc-
tion expenditures in recent years (see Table 4).  There are also high duties
and other charges on the import of vehicles and spare parts, a portion of which
could be considered as charges on road users.
3.14      A significant portion of public expenditure is financed through the
earmarking, of revenues from specific taxes or duties.  Projects or programs
which are not financed in this manner are' plagued with problems,as they must
compete for the limited amount of non-earmarked revenues.  Maintenance pro-
grams have been in this latter category,,and cases are known of maintenance
equipment lying idle due to lack of funds to purchase fuel.  Earmarking arranee-
ments (as outlined in para. 4.16) are therefore needed to ensure the provision
of the Government's share of cost of the proposed project.
E.   Highway Design and Construction
3.15      All engineering studies, designs and supervision for the construct-ion
of major road projects financed by external lenders have been done by foreign
consultants: some local staff have also been trained unmder these projects.
Engineering performed by Vialidad on other projects has been inadequate due to



- 8 -
the lack cf qualified staff and engineering equipment (e.g. for surveying,
drafting and soil investigation).   The loan provides for the purchase of such
equipment which will also be used in connection with maintenance operations
(para. 4.05)-
3.16      The design standards in use are satisfactory, but they call for the
application of triple bituminous surface treatments to low traffic roads.   A
double treatment would suffice,but in 1963 Vialidad adopted this practice to de-
fer the need for major maintenance by several years until its maintenance orga-
nization could be strengthened.   This practice will be eliminated with the im-
plementation of the proposed project.
3.17      Construction of all major highway projects financed from external
sources is carried out hv foreign onn        tm-rider unit price contracts aw.ard-
ed after competitive bidding;  international bidding has been used for Bank/IDl
projects.   There is a smnll local cmtracting indus-r w.Those work is 1:Lited
to the construction of minor bridges and short st:-etches of pavement.  Major
highw-y construction -ork fiP4-ced solely 1- th-e fovrnrment- is generaA.rf carrid
out bt the CI.   Some betterment works such as bridge replacement, drainage and
real:i.,,;imment work1,s areW po P-.1orm.ed Iby st-al:d   forces usi.ng coristructuion eqju-ii-i-menti
which was provided by AID under PL-480 programs.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.18      Highway maintenance is the responsiblity of Vialidad and the CI (para.
3.07). Vialidad maintains its roads exclusively by its own forces controlled
from headquarters through four maintenance districts (see Map).   The Govern-
ment is considering the transfer of the Cl's responsibility for highway main-
tenance in the Chaco area (District 5) to Vialidad.   Although no specific
schedule has been proposed, the consultants to be engaged under the proposed
loan will help to determine the maintenance requirements for District 5 in prep-
aration for such transfer.   The discussion below is limited to the four main-
tenance districts now under Vialidad's control.
3.19      Prior to the first highwmay maintenance project in 1961, coord:ination
and control were ineffectual.   Operations in the districts were carried1 out in
a random fashion mainly by hand labor, and the 2,500 km network was virtually
not maintained.   There was no cost accounting, the limited workshop and repair
facilities available urgently needed improving and expanding, and maintenance
equipment was seriously lacking.   The equipment provided 'Under the first main-
tenance project helped to improve maintenance operations but was intended to
meet only the most urgent needs and is now almost at the end of its economic
life.   Despite a lack of sufficient funds and personnel, Vialidad has been able
to maintain a total of 3,900 km out of 5,000 km of roads in its charge at the
present time, although only to minimum standards.   In January 1969, Vialidad
used the 1,967 master maintenance plan prepared by consultants under the first
maintenance project (Dara. 2 of Annex) to develon a founr-year maintenanne pro-
gram (1970-1973).   The program establishes the updated requirements for con-
sultine services, equipment, perso-nnn-el; nhonn fiindR and suitabThle stana.irds of
maintenance for the different types of road under varying traffic volumes, and
climatic conditions; and is the basis for the proposed seco   hhd w.h WWay mM.ainnte-
nance project.



- 9 -
4.. THE PRDSOJECT
A   Tlmq ,.-;r i-nA rtn
4.01~   A   The prJW%ct c,&ons3ts of. Ca fVo-u -,year Yrogrrsm k(17J0-1>7(.), folr thre con-
tinuation, improvement and expansion of maintenance operations on national
roads in four of Paraguay's five laintenAnce districts.   The program wouid be
implemented with the assistance of consultants and would include the purchase
of a.inten.ace, shop anXd other equipment, workshop extension and improvementt,
and personnel training.
B. Background
4.02      The four-year program which comprises the proposed project woluld pro-
vide training and assistance in developing a highway organization capabLe of
performing all the technical and administrative functions necessary for adequate
highway maintenance.   There is an urgent need to maintain properly the entire
5,000 km of national roads in the four maintenance districts now under Itialidad's
responsibiLity.    A further 1,000 km of roads (comprising new works and trans-
fers of existing local roads in these four districts) will require maintaining
by the end of 1972.   The project would provide for this extended maintenance
task as welU as for the equipment, workshop facilities, and consultingservices
necessary to strengthen Vialidad's reconstituted maintenance organization (para.
3.09) and to apply modern highway maintenance practices.   A four-year period
should suffice to develop the organization and to train local personnel in main-
tenance skills.   A subsequent project to extend improved maintenance procedures
to the fifth maintenance district (para. 3.18) may be developed from experience
gained under the proposed project.
4.03      The aim of the program is to develon the highway mainntenannce effort
so as to allow (a) the wearing surfaces of most roads to be reinstated, includ-
ing some betterment works (drainage;. reaal-ignment), thuls enahling routinre main-
tenance to be carried out; (b) roads which are now impassable for long periods
after rains9 to be kent onen in all butll. nr+,M. jweather;  and (c) deferred
maintenance to be reduced, and reconstruction of roads to be postponed ty pre-
ventive maintenance.   A total of 6;oo km of road wouTld be properlyr maintained
in 1972, comprising about 900 km of paved roads, 1,100 km of gravel roads and
h.000 km of earth roads.   At the completion of th.e pn"nt7m. it iS - - -ted c   t.-
Vialidad personnel will be capable of maintaining all roads under its juris-
di cti on witshoit. suhs+.a+   +ec.rical assistance.
C. fRlluiremen.ts (Table 5)
n).OL     Mair.tr-a4 and Workshop Euipm,ent, p-are Parts and    terials:
T'o imrove th,e le-vel of muintenanuce, majur equipment is required of
which motorgraders, tractors, loaders, trucks, a stone crushing unit and spare
parts are the Mai-n elemen.ts.  Since mosbt of the existing major equipment is in
poor condition and near to retirement, Vialidad intends to rebuild it with new
spare parts to carry out Ute heavy maintenance work required to reinstate gravel
and earth roads to their original conditions (para. 4.03 (a)).  In this w'ay, the
.hea-vy wear and tear on equipment caused by this type of work would be confined
to the old equipment.   The reinstatement work will be carried out during the
first two years and much of the old equipment used for this purpose will have to



- 10 -
be replaced under the four-year program.    Vialidad has taken eight years as
be avura e econoMarac  fe for -neu- equipmen1t; this is sa±iSfacbory.  The rew
equipment* and spare parts for new and old equipment would be provided under
the loan.
4.u)      Workshop facilities are inadequate in respect of 'buildings, inachinery
and tools.   For the workshop equipment which would be provided under the pro-
ject, the Government is extending and improving the main shop in San Lorenzo
and the three district shops at its own expense (about 0 25 million or US$ 0.2
million equivalent).   Work is nearing completion on the main shop and has been
started on the others.   These works are phased with equipment purchases and
all shops are expected to be in satisfactory condition by mid-1970 to receive
the first new equipment.   Miscellaneous equipment for district maintenance
crews, as well as engineering equipment and weighing scales (paras. 3.0)8 and
3.15) to :improve the control of maintenance operations, would also be provided
under the loan.
4.o6      The above requirements are reasonable;  details are given in Tables
5 and 7.   The estimated foreign exchange cost (to be financed from thet loan)
of the road maintenance and shop equipment, and spare parts is US$ 4.8 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies.
4.07      Local Personnel:
Vialidad has estimated its nersonnel needs and the years in which
they will be needed (Table 6).   The requirements are reasonable althouglh diffi-
culties may bh annonnt.erAd in recruiting a; suffii n+ anti ymbehr of nqualifiead enni -
neers.   The supply of unskilled and semi-skilled labor should cause no problem;
2 large resprvnir of +ec-h-niJitn  ned nrJ-nmnn+. ratonrs have bhen trained hy
foreign contractors performing construction works in Paraguay over the last ten
yeaIrs.  P'rn-irici rn i9 amnA ir. +th. ron  fory, f rn i-cngaroad i,n +.up to  i,r UlTlirAd
staff for about one year each in matters mainly related to highway maintenance
activ t ies.  TPhe s+a-i-ff"             _ ,-of Vi'U 4adin rl+- on to +.hr approred
organizat:Lon (para. 3.09, Table 6) have been agreed, and the Government; has con-
lfir..aedI t-IJIU L U W.L.L.L procUed WL IL 1..U'. LtIhILLI C%%IUV.uLUJUL11V.Ly.
.08q     MUe total cos4t of salariv  (res c f.g-A-  A-A-4-4---4--i-e  vr.esfo
.4 ..jw   JSJ.IP  UV. LJO..L  iAJ .  L  Q A..LVQ  %.LAAL U%.LLiLA~46  GQLJU1AA.LQ L4L G  J.I V " ex.L  ,
carrying out the project would be about d 58o million (us$ 4.6 million equi-
valent)I;  this.Lo Wo-ULU be entUiLrely a 'Loca.iJ cost financecl by the UGove UliU  lThe
foreign exchange cost of training Vialidad staff abroad (travel, per diem,
tAuition), which would be financed Dy the loan, is est7imated at U33$ 50,()00 equi-
valent.
4.09      Consulting Services:
The Government will employ consultants to assist Vialidad in carrying
out the four-year maintenance program.   Tne consultants, among other things,
would help to:
(a) improve equipment and workshop operations;
* about 70% is additional equipment and 30% replacement for obsolete equipment.



- 11 -
(b)  establish an adequate cost accounting system;
(c)  improve budgetary methods and programming;
(d)  set up local training facilities for technical and
administrative personnel, a program for training staff
abroad, and a materials testing system;
(e)  establish up-to-date inventories of roads and main-
tenance equipment;
(f) determine the maintenance requirements for roads in
District 5 in the event a decision is taken to trans-
fer the responsibility for the maintenance of these
roads to Vialidad; and
(g)  prepare highway legislation, as may be needed, on such
matters as jurisdiction and land acquisition.
4010      Up to six maintenance specialist are required for varying periods
from the beginning of 1970 through mid-1973.   The total cost of these services,
excluding contingencies, has been estimated at US$ 450,000 equivalent of
which the foreign exchange component of cost would be about US$ 350,000 equi-
valent and provided under the loan.
D. Execution
4.11      MIOPC would be responsible for the program, and the detailed execution
would be by Vialidad assisted by consultants.   The Government has givena assur-
ances that all national roads, maintenance shops and equipment under the juris-
diction of NOPC (including the equipment provided in the project) will be oper-
ated, maintained and repaired in accordance with sound highway engineering
Dractices.   Equinment and snare narts would. to the maxi-mum extent practical.
be procured on the basis of international comnpetitive bidding in line with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.   There are a number of individual items or
groups of similar items (largely workshop tools, engineering equipment and
spare parts to rebuild existing equipment) whose cost will not exceed U.S$t 5;000
equivalent and which would be procured on the basis of limited local bidding
from firmsq rpmrAPRnting foreigpn mifnu+tirPrz._  Thp trat1-l rrl1-. erf' .zh it.Tmq
will not exceed US$ 500,000 equivalent.   Deliveries would start in mid-1970
aqndi contin   imtA  mnir-1972- the first. beaina of spanre pqr+  feor eisizAng oin-
ment.
4.12      Consulting services should be provided from the outset of the pro-
ian+.  +,-   '  clv " ,i-i  + ihn   tvf'  1 +a j  -;A4 -;"C rnr,,".Ai--o~ , 4- +^  y~nvi 4-   +11a
,ect to ens re the *S  of appropriate bidding p_oced-res ar.d to ___. the
procurement of equipment items.   Proposals for these services have been re-
na4 rra Pnnws -Fr--a P4rm  -i.7T C  nr,A n-ta T4n- ; nn  -,, 4 P -P4-r *~4 inp4 nw
t.t.L.Vtr. fJLror. thre  fi..s (two -&AL -LA       -u a.r .d. or. Ii)  ou of five  J..J.J. f4ir
invited, and Vialidad is about to negotiate a draft contract with the selected
firm.   The- te-n.s ofL reflerence41,- the 4 list ofPi,-  invite  -osumi-44 psas
ilL.  .JLL~  Ui~iI1~  t.i.  ±  .  Wllt  ..L-LOU  %J.L  J.J.11..L A UI V L.LI V. A  U%J  0L)AIAI".U
and the selection of the firm for contract negotiation have been agreed by the
B.an    Te i conclusio  of a salIsfcto-y conturact Ior cons 'iLng Sel-V±LCe is a
condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 12 -
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing
Capital Expenditures
4.13      Estimates of capital expenditures are given in Tables 5 and 7 and
summarized as follows:
CaDital Expenditures (million)             i; of Total
…----…------               ----    US$--------    Capital
ForAign  Lonal Total     Poreign  Local Total      ExDenditure
1- RmAnui nnt a
Spare I'arts         602      -     602      4.8             4 4.8       76
2. Extension of Work-
~~1-   V,~ -                             =4O-4eA
,.  onsuliingSerDu_
Training of Vialidad
elaf                   ^     13 LI           0.       0.1    0.5
0 ka.Ll                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0f 
4. Con+iFen                        eies 103 510  0.8 0.eU              _
755     43     798       6.0     0.3    6.3          n
The Astim,tt.es of roosts of eqiuinment. arA hased on qontations reareived b-Y Vialidnd
in January 1969 from suppliers' representatives in Asuncion and abroad.     The
estiman+e f'ofr  fnnliltng serva.ices is hased on Pnnk exnerience of such services
in Paraguay.    The contingency item includes an amount of about 10% of the esti-
r.ated cost+ of a'' ca-pital items to cove r woreseen expenditvles  a    r.ii+ aot3
annual allowance to cover price increases in respect of equipment purchases from
Tanayes   40-ente estimates 4are. -                             - reasnale
Uv JOJ.  L,Fkj/I WiL~L.L  W4  V0 .L41RAL,V0  WV.V  1iiaU10j  CdIU  IJLZ  U.LAIIV  LJ.LU.Q  CL.".V J"'I
These esti-mates are reasonable.
Recurrent Expenditures
4.14      The Government will provide d 853 miLlion (US$ 6.8 million equivalent)
for recurrent expenditures   on the maintenance program.    These estimatred ex-
penditures cover the cost of administration, personnel, fuel, lubricants and
materials and are based on a detailed forecast by Viaiidad in January i969; the
estimates do not include allowance for depreciation of equipment and are reason-
able.   Tie Government agreed during negotiations that a suitable accoumi;ing
format, including provision for maintenance equipment depreciation, will be es-
tablished for Vialidad which wilL reflect the true cost of maintaining roads
and provide the basis for evaluating maintenance equipment requirement;s.
*/    Includes some foreign exchange cost not estimated separately.
**/   Too small to be shown.



- 13 -
F. 1 i MI,,n, g
L40-L.15'  1The Bk   uu.±U would 1jj uxic foreign C0s , 0of Cap±Jia  apt1bU.LU-te udtj*I-
mated at trs$ 6 million equivalent, including US$ 800,000 for contingencies0
La . fLmdE- wvuld be disbursed against tne actual foreign exchange cost oI pur-
chasing maintenance and shop equipment, spare parts for new and old equdpment,
consultingr services and staff training abroad.   The Government would finance
the local costs of these items estimated at 0 43 million (US$ 300,000 equiva-
lent).   T"ne Government would also be responsible for the financing of all re-
current costs estimated at 0 853 million (US$ 6.8 million equivalent).     It is
expected that the loan would be signed before the end of 1969, disbursements
for equipment would be completed by the end of 1972, and consulting services
would not be required beyond the middle of 1973.    Based on these assurptions,
the loan should be fully disbursed by the end of 1973 and annual Bank disburse-
ments are forecast as follows:
1970    1971    1972    1973     Total
Disbursement Forecast
(US$ million equivalent)       3.1      1.7     1.0     0.2     6.C
If, on completion of the project, any surpluses in the loan account occur, they
should be cancelled.
4.16      The average annual recurrent expenditure for 1966-69 for highway mainr
tenance was about 9 100 million (US$ 0.8 million equivalent) and would be
0 175 million (US$ 1.4 million equivalent) in 1970, the first year of the pro-
gram. and M 236 million (us$ 1.8 million eouivalent) in 1973. the final vyar of
the program.   These and the other Government costs.connected with the project
will be met from Aarmarked revenues (nara. 3.1J,) for which the r7ovprnrmn.nt has
made arrangements in decree No. 7261 of September 5, 1969.    These arrangements
provide for monthly allneatns +to UialidnA o-f fimrlo fwnm higrh.TTJr taxes and
duties on fuel, and also for the provision of funds from other sources if, for
any reonn   earmarked revenues are   -   -icient for r.&Ince needs.



- 14 -
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      Objectives:  The objectives of the proposed project are to reduce the
cost of transport on Paraguay's highway network and to prevent future increases
which would become unavoidable if highway maintenance continued at its present
level.  Road transport is the main mode for moving goods arnd people in Para-
quay, and low costs of road transport are therefore of primary importance for
the country's economy.
5.02      Network to be Maintained:   Vialidad is presently maintaining only
about 3.900 km out of the 5.000 sm of roads for wlhich it is responsible (paras.
3.19 and 4.02). However, over the coming four years, tha netiAfu-k under Viali-
dad's resDonsibilitv will increase to about 6,000 km.   The annual network
lengths to be maintained by Vialidad under the four-year maintr.ance program
are given below   nn maior additions are pres_ntly foreseen aftEer 1972,. with
the possible exception of the Chaco roads now maintained by CI (para. 3.07).
Highway Network (in kmn) to be Maintained by Vialidad
Year         Paved           Gravel          Earth        Total
1969          692              575           2,664        3,931
1O7A)An'7AE                                  I cY70       C: CAA
1971          868              989           3,887        5,744
Io7'I                       ,  vL Pk 1.44      r-J,       A i
1972          898            1,0f71          4,-3J,o
2.03      Tra'fic: _____ 1way trcUL.LU is  ±L1LaU ,ut to dvu ro,UW1s at an arUnLua±l
rate of 9-10% in recent years (para. 3.04). The generally favorable develop-
ment prospects of Paraguay and the improved level of road maintenance as a
result of this project would tend to justify the assumption that traffic growth
-wo-uld continue at about the same rate.  However, in view oI the lack of reli-
able traffic data a conservative growth rate of 7.5% up to 1975 and 6% there-
after was used in tne economic analysis.
5.0o4     The limited traffic counts carried out in 1966 and 1967 covered most
of the roads that are now paved or will be paved by the end of this year.    For
the remaining paved roads it has been assumed that average traffic volumes
were the same as for the paved roads on which counts were taken. This is
probably a conservative assumption since all the roads which were not covered
by traffic counts are in the area close to Asuncion where traffic volumes are
generally high. The gravel and earth roads for which traffic data wiere col-
lected are the more important roads of this category but represent only about
one-third of the entire unpaved network. It has been assumed that traffic
volumes on the roads for which no data are available are considerably lower,
on average by about 50%, than on the roads covered by the 1966/67 traffic
counts.
5.05      Methodology:  The execution of the maintenance program under the
proposed project would yield the following benefits:
(a)  the substantial improvement in the present condition of
the gravel and earth roads will reduce vehicle operating
costs and prevent further deterioration of these roads which
would have resulted in increased vehicle operating costs;
and



- 15 -
(b)  the adequate maintenanice of paved roads, which are
relatively new, will prevent increased vehicle oper-
ating costs in the future.
Other benefits which have not been quantified due to lack of sufficient data
are savings in reconstruction costs resulting from the lengthening of the econ-
omic life of the roads and time savings due to better riding conditions.
5.06      To evaluate the benefits attributable to the project, the future pat-
tern of vehicle operating costs with and without the project has been analyzed;
the difference in costs under the two alternatives are the benefits that can be
obtained by carrying out the project.
5.07      The benefits are the result of the combined effects of investment in
equipment and of additional recurrent maintenance outlays such as labor, fuels,
naterials, etc. Therefore, both capital andi nrirlition al recurrent costs are
included in the economic arnalysis. Without replacement of existing equipment,
whi.Lch is included i,n the project, maintenance work would suffer seriously mnd
-vehicle operating costs would rise more than the amounts shown in Table 8.
-o--e-erno----        calculation of the benefits directly attributable to the
replacement equipment has been made and the rate of return, consequently, urnder-
states hUe be;Qafits of± tle project. .
5o        The average econorlmic _ life of the equipmaent to be purchased under the
-n;posed project will be about eight years (para. 4.04) and, therefore, bene-
fits and costs have been calcculated for this period 1970=7?). Sin.ce the
maintenance equipment will be purchased in the first four years of the program
some of it wiLl have one to three years of remaining -life in the eighth year.
An appropriate salvage value was applied.
5.09      Vehlele Operating Costs:  There has been no study of the effects of
-i.nproved road maintenance oni vehicle operating costis in Paraguay. The analy-
sis therefore had to be based on findings of studies that have been carriedl out
eloewhere and on assumptions comparable with those used in other recent Bank!
'iJN. maintenance projects.
,f.10     The following assumptions with regard to vehicle operating costs on
~;.e different categories of roads, with and without the project, have 'eer usedu
(a) Paved Roads:   The greater part of these roads were
constructed recently and are in good condition. With-
out the project, the equipment and maintenance effort
presently deployed could not maintain them properly and
their condition would deteriorate gradually. It is
assumed that by 1977 vehicle operating costs would have
increased by about 10% above present levels. T.Iith the
project, all paved roads will be kept in good condition
so that vehicle operating costs will remain at their
present levels.
(b) Gravel and Earth Roads:   The unpaved roads are gener-
ly lnii poor condition and many are not maintained.
Present vehicle operating costs are estimated to be



- 16 -
about 20% above those on well maintained earth
.nd aravel roads.  IMoreover, without the project,
road conditions would probably worsen due to in-
cases in traffirG and additions to the network to
be maintained by Vialidad, and many of the roads
woU,ld becom.e imnnA nhe for Irncevr npriods than at
present.   To account for these effects, it is
ass-i.ed +t.ha+ o,per3ting covst-s 1..Yo1+T1ld increase hir
about 5-8% above their present levels by 1977.
LT4+th +.2- ----;--4- ga-l &-.  -<+h roads ,-ill be
VW  J~ v ia   AA   eA WJJViV, LO)   & Q CVI .4.   ;L%  IVJ.OCL. UW&   ~A~ W
properly maintained so that present vehicle oper-
at-ing costl.-s ca, bLue redUU.U LJy aLboU  1 % fLrLIL
their present levels.
The pattern of vehicle operating costs under the above assumptions is Ishown iI.
Table 8.   Table 93 s-gumarizes the data used in tuhe calc-ulautLon of the rate of
return.
5.11      Results of Economic Analysis:  With the above assumptions, the econ-
omic rate of return on an incremental basis for tne maintenance prograi to be
financed by the proposed project would be 51%.   The rates of return fcrr the
different categories of roads would be:
Paved roads   :   42%
Gravel roads  :   53%
Earth roads   :   62%
5.12      In view of the uncertainties that exist concerning the effect c° di°-
ferent levrels of road maintenance on velhicle operating costs in general., and
in view of insufficient data on traffic growth and transport costs in Paraguay
in particular, the economic justification of the proposed project was tested
under considerably lower assumptions than those used in the above analysis. If
traffic oIn the national highway network were to grow at only 6% annually up to
1975, and at 5% thereafter, the economic rate of return on the program would
be 35%.   If the estimated savings in vehicle operating costs are reduced by
25%, the rate of return would be 32%.   If both reductions are applied the rate
of return would still be 18%.   The proposed project is therefore economically
justified.



- 17 -
6.RECOI<UE11 LTIONQ
6xi0      During loan negotiations, satisfactory assurances were provided 'cj
the Governnient on the following principal points:
(a) consultation with the Bank on tne -findings of the rail-
way study and on implementation of recommendations
resulting therefrom (para. 2.08);
(b) the provision of technical assistance for the iprov-
ment of planning in the transport sector (para. 2.14);
(c) the recruitment of suitable personnel for the project
(paras. 3.09 and 4.07); and
(d) the earmarking of specific tax revenues to cover the
Government's share of the project's costs (paras. 3.14
and 4.16).
6.02      The conclusion of a satisfactory contract with consultants for t,he
imnlementation of the project (para. 4.12) is a condition of effectiveness of
the loan agreement.
6.03      Ihe project provides a suitable basis for a Ban-k loan of US$ 6.0 mil.-
lion equivalent.   The pnurchasing schedule for the equipment and its economic
life would justify a term of ten years; however, on country economiic grounds,
a 201-year term including a four-year period of grace would be appropriate.
December 8, 1969



A1\TElX
Page 1
,AG LTAA 
M A    II,UACE Pn AIOJE:T
t-'r'r0 m  tHTr-URJ,.Av  M  11,fl't'TZA 1 TV1U   lflf   ITrl
Bank/IDA Projects in the Transport Sector
and other External Assistance for Highways
1.        The first Bank loan to Paraguay in 1951 of US$ 5 million equivelent,
was mair.ly for an agricltura project, but it provided about uS"$ 1 million
for equiprnent to construct some feeder roads. This equipment was well utiliz-
ed and the project wvas satisfactorily completed.
2.        Trie first road project as such was a Credit for construction arid
maintenance equipment in 1961 (Credit 12-PA) amounting to US$ 6 million equi-
val ent or the reconstruction and paving of the Asuncion - Encarnacion Road
(330 km), construction of a major bridge, the purchase of the most urgently
needed maintenance equipment and the preparation of a master maintenance plan.
Hiaher costs and delays resulted from a redesign of the road and bridge to pro-
tect them from extreme flooding, such as occurred during the final design. stage
in 1963.  This led to supplementary financing in 1964 (Loan 396-PA) of US$ 2.2
miilion equivalent to cover the highway costs, and a four-year extension of the
project's Closing Date to December 31, 1969.  Execution was hampered by poor
initial marnatgement of the work, and damages due to further floods in 1965 and
1966 increased project costs by almost 25%. The road works are being carried
out by Hochtief (Germany) and shouald be satisfactorily completed before the
Present Closing Date of the Loan; the major bridge was satisfactorily cc,mple-
ted in 1968 by Chacofi-Albano (Argentina). Consulting services for the pro-
ject works are being provided by Geotecnica (Brazil) who also helped with. the
purchase of maintenance equipment for which US$ 1.1 million was allocated. in
and disbursed from the Loan/Credit.  In 1966 the US consultant, Brown and Root.
was engaged to prepare a master maintenance plan which was available in 1.967,
but only partially implemented in 1968. due to the lack of sufficient Pelipime-nt;
..unds and personnel. The plan was recently updated and a four-year program
developed (1970-1973) for the continued improvement of maintenance operationst
3.        The third project in the transport sector was a UNDP grant totalling
almost US$ 600,000 equivalent for a study carried out during 1964-1967 of agri-
cultural potential and road needs in Eastern Paraguay. The Bank acted as!
Executing Agency and US consultants Aero Service and Gannett, Flemming, Corddry
and Carpenter undertook the work. A maior result was the identification of
some 450 km of roads in need of improvement, which are now being studied for
feasibility (see Dara. 5).
4.        The fourth oDeration -was a Bank loan in 1965 for Mv$4 2.8 mi"licn equi-
valent to improve port facilities at Asuncion (Loan 437-PA). Difficulties in
Gov,ernment-contractor-consultant relationships developed in 1968-969 and have
hampered the execution of the project; however, these are largely resolved,
and the project is ep)ected to be satisfactorily completed by Septerter 30,
1970, the Closing Date of the Loan.
Loan 443-PA in 1966, amounting to US$ 2.1 million equitalent, was the
f'ifVi BRunk operation and the second road project.  It is -elping to



A 17-WE'V
Page 2
finance thei reconstruction and paving of a 43 km road section (Coronael Oviodo-
Villarrica), feasibility studies of the 450 km of road identified under the UNDP
study (para. 3), and detailed engineering of up to 2% Km of these roads fo-lrmd
to have thet highest priority for early construction.  After considerable Govr-
ernment delay in the selection of a consultant, these latter studies were ini-
tiated in January 1.969 by Louis Berger (US) and will probably be completed two
months afteir the December 30, 1969 Closing Date of the Loan.  The construction
work is being carri.ed out by Chacofi (Argentina) and supervised by Brown and
Root wdho had designed the project road.  Due mainly to the unpredictable ef-
fect of the' 1965-1966 floods on sub-surface soil conditions and partly to faulty
design, addlitional work was required and has increased total project costs al-
most 25% over original estimates.   The additional work has delayed project ex-
ecution, but completion is expected before the Closing Date of the Loan.
6.        F'inancial. assistance for highways has also been given by the US Gov-
ernment through thei Agency for International Development (AID) and its PL-480
programs.   Two loans totalling about US$ 10 million (1960 and 1967) were made
to reconstruct and pave the Asuncion - Puerto Presidente Stroessner Road.
(about 300 km); the PL-480 programs have been oriented toward the construction
and im-rovement of agricultural roads and have involved the provision of' con-
struction equipment and local currency financing in amounts that are dif'ficult
to ascertai.n, altholugh these may be substantial.  Assistance is also being
provided by the Canadian Government for some highway feasibility studies, with
the Inter -Americnn Development Bank acting as Executin- Agence.
Decemnber 19J9



TABLE 1
PARAGrAUAI
SECOND HIVAI MLINTENANCE PHDJECT
National Highway Network (km)
(Comprising 5 Districts)
'lear                               Paved     Gravel      Earth       Total
1933                                  -         160          60         2 -O
1950                                  73        474         278         330
1060                                 195        653      1,319        2,1(6
1965                                471         963      3,235        h,6(o
19 66                                526        993      3,596        5,115
1967                                 558      1,025      4,329        5,912
1968'                                638      1,025      4,595        6,258
1Q63 llational Highway Network by Districts and Responsibilitv (km)
Paved   Gravel     Enrth        Total
TJnder Vialidad's Responsibility
Distri=ct 1                      537       506        970        2,013
District 2                       -         25h        85h        1,10
Distri ct 3                      101      1(1        920         i I
District 4                        _         8?9       653          7L)Q
Subtotal                    639     1,01o      3,397        5,0^5
Of wh.ch were under
mainitenance                  (638)     (575)    (2,664)      (3,877)
Jnder Responsibility of
" o)Tn^d -Ie In-enie.-Ina"
-I                   =
Tot,al ,                              63Q     1,025      4450,513
Soiirce: MOPC
April 1969



PA'PT' 2
±AWs- UAI.
SECONSD HIaMWY DMETIEN'ANsCE PMOMICT
Vehicle Fleet
1957      196y       1966      i.07
Passenger cars and jeeps               3,196      6,978      7,711    8,433
Buses and microbuses                     880     1,631      1,757     1,937
Pickups                                  885      3,167     3,940     4,520
Trucks                                 1,940     2,690      2,888     3,168
TOTAL                                6,901    14,466     16,296    18,o58
Sources:  1957 and 1965 figures are based on an official vehicle census;
1966 and 1967 figures represent estimates by the Secretaria
Tecnica de Planificacion.
April 1969



PA BTv 
PARAGUAY
'SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Diesel-oil and Gasoline Consumption
(1,000 liters)
Annual Increase
Total          in %
1955                                      36,791
19156                                     4o,793        lOo9
I 9 17                                   L5,L23          11,4
1958                                     50,398         11.0
19Q'59                                  ,1,538          2.3
196D0                                    58,h63         13.h
19651                                    69,701         19.2
1962                                     76,589          9.9
1963                                     82,921          8.3
196)4                                    91,581         10.h
196G5                                   101,335         10.6
19656                                   112,106         10.6
1967                                    l23,703         10.3
19468                                   132,313          7.0
Source: Secretaria Te nirGa de Planificacion
April 1969



TABLE  4
T~A l, A fPTTA U*
~~    -~~~I  I  11  1"ATMr11~TTA A1T(1T, Tnnrn TM
SECONhD HILnvuII..TL ial"I DJ±IUD ravuJ!A
l ({LL1/_ _- TT_-__ ,-- :4 ,14
Expenditures on nignways sI-1-uc ±u- dIiU UV-VX- UVi1UvUV_LU1
(in millions of Guaranies)
Expendituires                                                   31
1966      19?67      1968       1969-
Construc-tion                630        756       756        877
M  4int    2/               121        R8                     73
Total                   751       842        880        950
User contributions
1966      1967       1968
Fuel taxes                   400        442       514
Road Tolls                    36        37         47
Sub-total               436       079        561
Import charges on
vehicles and parts 4/        564       543        550
Total               1,000     1,022      1,111
1/ Including administration and overheads.
2/ Excludes mlajor eauipment purchases, but includes custom duties which were
paid on small lot purchases of materials and minor equipment.
3/ Allocated in 1969 budget or estimated.
4/  Figures represent total collections; only a part of these are considered to be
Cllooo. M)PrCO,nn+n - ;n T8rnn;rss An 'PI  4-Nnnf; 4 r"  onA m;;oa n nc+ 4-+Sac
AourcnS: MPC,3      -- cti    nc          i,.- a           1- . . . ..e.
April 1969



Zi                                                                                                                                                              N
2 R
n-3   -0                                                                                                           C; C
'S                                                                                                                                                                                      IM
_CC C           _C
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -1 - - - - - - -- 1---
19
ISS C7
5
no
70
I
3   Z
t    V
'2P
I
S I



PAP A GUA 
S]ECOND HIiGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Four-Year Maintenance Program (1970-1973)
Vialidad Personnel Requirements
Headquarters (H),     stricts (D), District Shops
Categories                                 1969                          197C0                    1973
Tff(-D T--D-Sw)M             TH(    7-D-T-S7I)           1,H   F F7Ir-7--)-':
Maintenance and Equi2ment
DeBTpmEents&and Districts
EngiieZrs-i2n--a-rge                  1      4      -      1       1      4     -     1        1     4           1
Engineers                             -      -      -      -       4      4      -     1       4     4           1
Technicians                           1      3      -      1       4       -     9     7       4     -     9     7
Admin:lstrative                       2     32      -     10      47     52      -    21      47    52     _    21
Skcilled                             11     75     17     28      50    592    52     61      54   130    58    62
Uin skilled                          21    287     14     45      47    373     2     29      50   447     5    38
Ene ering Dspartment
Enineers- n-Charge                    1                            1                           1
Enginesers                            2                            6                          L1
Techn:icians                          7                           10                          LO
Administrative                       12                           11                          L1
Scilled                             10                            2                           2
Unskilled                             7                            1                           5
Administration Department
Chief                                 1                            1                           1
Technicians                           2
Administrative                        8                           15                         :17
S]pecialized                         10                           16                         :16
Unskilled                             -                            2                           3
Source:  MOPC
A pril  1969



FAFi,GUAY
E01pen ture F)recast for XaincenanceProram 1970  197
-------------------- Guaranis( in millions) ----------------------------- -----  ----s------------------------- Dollars (in  ilLions)-
1970      -    971                        1913            Totals        __   970          1971          1972          1973            To
Capital koenditures                           Got    h Bo,k  Covt. Branik  !vt. Bank   Govt. Bank    Govt.. Bank Total    0Mt. Bank Cua   oL. . J!,   Gc.. . Bank   Govt. Bansr   §nt.   L    TotaL
Major Maintenanove Equilpment                      226.0         115.9          8h.4          12.6         441.0 441.0          1.81          0.92          o.67          0.10          3.50 3.50
Spare Parts for New Eq4ipmrnt                       37.8          37.8          12.6                        88.2  88.2          0.30          0.330         0.10                        0.70 0.70
Spare Parts for Old Equipownt                       37.8                                                    37.8  37.8          0.30                                                    0.30
Machinery and TDols for Worksrops                    '.
EAxtenion of Workshops, Equipmsent
for Maintenance Sections aznd Crews          1';.1  18.9    2.5   8.8    7.6                        25.2V' 27.7  52.9    0.12  0.15    0.0.2  Q.07   0.6                         0.20/ 0.22  0.4,2
Equipmert to Control Maintenance OperatioB           3.8           3.8                                       7.6   7.6          0.03          0.0'                                      0.06 0.06
Consultants, including Local Staff kbroada/   _3.8  162-J   3 8 _5        5.0   12.6           6.3   12.6   50.4  63.0    0°0    Q1     0.0-L  0L.   QOC o    2&          Q25.   gQlQ LO   iQ..5
Subtotal                                      113.9 342.7    6.3  181.4  12.6  109.6         18.9   27.8 652.6 690.4     0.15  2.72    0.0';  1.414  0.10  0.87          0.15    0.30  5.18 5.48
Contingencies -"                               L '  L        Qe 5! "29-7  1.7 _19.9            3.8     .2 L02.9 108.1     0.02   Q.2     - _    .21Qi  0.01.  -6           -.°l Q.U           2cL
TlotaL, Capital EXpenditures                  21.5 39'2.2    7.2  211.1  14.3  129.5          22.7  143.0 755.5 798.5     0.17  3.11    o.o05  1.613  0.11  1.03          0.18    0.33  6.oo 6.33
,Lecurre it Rm   diturea
ALdministration                               23.9          28.6         30.2          32.3          125,0       135.0   0.19          0.23          0.224         0.25          (.91        0.91
Personw.1l                                  lO4.6          123.3        lT1.8         120.4         463.1        463.1    0.83          0.9i          0.91          o.96          3.68        3.68
Fuel ancl Lubricants                          19.4          30.4         33.2          35.0         118.0        118.0    0.15          0.2!          0.26          0.28          t.93        0.93
Squipoffit Repairs                            18.6          26.7         27.7          29.1         102.1         102.1   0.15          0.21          0.22          0.23          0.81        0 81
iMaterials                                     7.8           8.5         16.6          17.5          50.4         50.4    o.o6          0.07          0.13          0.11,         0.40        0.40
MiscellaLneous                                 1.1         _ 1.1          1.1           1.2           4.S           4.5   0.01,          O,           0=21 0.01     Ql                         tQ4
Totals, Recurrennt Expenditureas             175.4         218.6         723.6        235.5         853.1        853.1    1.39          1.74          1.77          1.87           5.77       6.77
I/ Amuirit showni as Government contribution is exclusively for extension of worlshops and is taken
as a local cost.
TJ raiming abroad would involve foreign exchange expenditures of US$50,000 equiivalent (tuit:Lon, travel, per diem).
I/ About 3% contingency allowance per year for price escalation on equipment from Jasiary 1.1969.
,/ About 10% contingenicy allowance on all items to cover unforeseen needs during the project.
July 1969



PARAGUAY
SEGND HIGhiI.'nWAY MATTE'ANCE FROJECT
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
ESTIM4ATED PATTERN OF COSTS WITH AIID WITHOUT THE PROJECT
(in guaranies per  , --net? o-f xes and cUstomn  utiesr
1970              11972                             1H3                  4             '                                    - 7 .
Car Bus Truck    Car Bus Truck    Car Bus   Truck   Car Bus Truclc    Car Bus Truck     Car Bus   Truck   Car Bus Truck    Car BuB Truck
Pavedi rc ds
Without project             9.2  10.3 17.2   9,3 lO4  17.4   9.4 10.5 17.6    9.5 10.6 17.8     9J6 10.13 18. l   9Q8 10.9 18.3     9.9 'L1.1  18.6  10.0 11.2 18.8
With project                9.1 10.2  17.1   9.1 10.2  17.1   9.1  10.2  17.1  9.1 10.2  17.1    9.l 10.2 17.1    9.1 10.2  17'. 1  9.l ]L0.2 17.1   9.1 10.2  17.1
Benel'its per km            0.1  0.1   0.1   0.2  0.2  0.3    0.3  0.3   0.5   0.4   0.4  0.7    0.5  0.6   1.0    0.7   0.7  1L.2   0.8  0.9   1.5   0.9   1.0  1.7
oravel roads
Without project            15.2  15.9 29.7  15.3 16.0 29.9   15.4 16.1 30.0   15.5 16.2 30.2    15.6  16.3 30.J4  15.7 16.4 30.6   1L5.8 16.5 :30.8  15.9 16.6 31.0
With project               14.3 14.9 27.9   13.5 14.1 26.3   12.7  13.3  24.9  12.11 2.6 23.5   12.1 12.45 23. 5  L?2.1 1:2.6 2:3.5  :L2.1 :L2.6 23.5  '12.1 12.6 23.5
Benei'its per km            0.9  1.0   1.8   1.8  1.9  3.6    2.7  2.8   5.1   3.4   3.6  6.7    3.';  3.7  6.9   :3.6  :3.8  7?.1   3.7  3.9   7.3   3.8   4.0  7.5
Earth roads
Without project            19.0 20.1 37.8   19.1 2^.2  38.1  19.2 20.4 38.3    19.3 20.5 38.5   19.i4 20.6  38.7  19.5 20.7 39.0    19.6 20.9 39.2    19.7 21.0 39.4
With project               17.9 18.9 35.5   16.9 17.9 33.5   16.0 16.9 31.7   15.1 15.9 30.0    15.1 15.9 30.0     9115.9     0.0         15.1:L9 'J0.0  35.I 15.9 30.0
Benef'its per km            1.1  1.2   2.3   2.2  2.3  4.6    3.2  3.5   6.6   li.2  L.6  8.5    4.3  L.'7  8.7    4.4   h.8  9.0   L4.5  5.0   9.2   4.6   5.1  9.4
* Present vehicle operating costs in guaranies per kTo (net of taxes and custom duties) are estimated at:
Paved roads    Gravel roads     Earth roads
Car                  9.1             14. 5           18.1
Bus                 10.2             15.1            19.0
Truck                17.1            28.3            36.1
(1) Includes passernger cars, jeeps and pick-ups                                                                                                                         I
(2) Micro bus (25 passeragers)
(3) Average-size truck (8-1/lt tons)
Sources: Consultants' renorts and miission estiates.
Amrii1 16Q



TABLE 9
PARAGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY M&INTENANCE PROJECT
Summary of Benefit-Cost Analysis
Estimated Traffic, Economic Cost of Maintenance Program and Benefits
1970    1971   1972   1973    1974   1975    1976   1977
1.  Traffic (in million vkm)
Paved Roads                       198.4  228.7   254.2  273.2   293.6  3i5.6   3345   35)4.6
Gravel Roads                       23.8   29.6    33.5   36.0    38.7   41.6   h4.1    b6.8
Earth Roads                       244.2  C2.6     2Q.h   30.6    32.9   ,5.4    37.6   J9.Q
Total                             246.4  28,3.9  316.1  339.8   365.2  392.6   416.2  4b1.2
1 /--                          _ _     _ _    -  -   _ _ _   -
2.  Coost of Mi ntanancA Prcoram
(in million guaranies
2/
a)  Capital Costs_
3/
Paved Roads                   126.6   69.7    54.4   12.4                        (-21.0)
Gravel Roads                  155.7   82.6    48.5    7.6                        (-24.0)
Earth Roads                   117.4   62.5    31.2    3.1                        (-18.0)
Sub t o ta.                       399.721).8R13)     1   23.1                        (-. 0 )
b)  Incremental Recurrent costs'
Paved Roads                    3.5    4       L46.7   4.u 51.3Q e    2.8   54.L4   :o6.r
Gravel Roads                   16.6   30.2    25.9   27.8   28.6    29.5   30.h 4   1.3
Earth Roads                    31.3   h9.8   55.     61.9   63.8    65.7   67.7    6Q9.7
Sub-total                          79.   122.6   127.6  139.5   1L43.7  lL8.0  152.5  157.0
Total Costs                       479.1  337.4   26i.7  162.6   i43.7  1408.0  152.5   9)4.0
3. Benefits (in million guaranies)
Paved Roads                    19.9   55.2    96.9  142.6  217.6   284.9  375.4 4)47.8
Gravel Roads                   33.9   83.7   136.4  190.7  211.0   233.2  254.1   276.9
Earth Roads                    44.4   93.6   150.1  191.3   230.5  255.8  278.7   301.4
Tota'L                    naa    1) -3n~~0   .~.  r'  - a0 I3  ',   £   en.CI  '7'1 'J  n ro0  'i nr'14 .,
± U Lotl                           98.2  2.     33._4   ,2 4.6  U-7L I6I5.9  7  7'JUC.L AVJ6.
I/  Including quantity contingencies, but excluding price increases.
21 Totals are slightly higher than corresponding amounts giveni in Table 7, due to minor
adjustments agreed with Government during loan negotiations.
3/  5alvage values in 1977 of equipment purchased after 1970 calculated on the basis of
st r aI ghlne er, ht year I jprt-io     dedt i L Iu fruom, toLtaL LcUbLt.
J/ A 3% annual increiase in recurrent costs was applied for the period 1971)-77 to accoun,
for increasing maintenance efforts required due to growing traffic volumes.
aeptemiber 1969



PARAGUAY: SECONC) HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJIECT
ORGANIZATION OF VIALIDAD
F     M1NiSTRY OF PUBLIC WORIKS
AND COIMM' I^tIrATIftUc    <
VIAIDADI
[INFrORM,ATION3                     -
E:NGINEERING          MAINTENANCE            EQUIPMENT           ADMINISTRATION          MAINTENANCE
DEPARTMENT            DIEPARTMENT           DEPART MENT   _        DEPARTMENT             DISTRICTS
~~~~~1Zf_                                                        -        _Y
-{    ~DESIGN  X     -     INSF'ECTION          CETA SHO               ACCNDIN                DIIYRICT IiOS 
-j  DESIGN  1               1     ~~~~~~~~~AND DISTIRICT SHOPS  ACONIGSAN LORENZO
CONSTRUCTI                                         ECT--  4N IOrl ]   PE RNNEL              DISTRICT 2  1
TRAFFIC  INSPECTiON        PERSONNEL   j       ~~~~~~~SAN ESTAkNISLAkO
L {- L TRANSPORTATION                              SANIGNACO   r ]
|- DISTRICT 4 1
iA_rch 1!369                                                                                             (R)IBRD- 434
March~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .6 ___



EASTERN PARA6UA'T
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK
Po sASTREO    _       R A Z 
qBl,ELA
NLARO  qAS .                                  . . .  TA.
POCA SADO                                               iz
W0 FONCIERE   l                              S    i      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOoPsis 
GRALFLUIS DE                        PJ.CABALLERC  ,
POPIt4ABC~~~L LA PIEDRA       ~~.,.
|~~~~~P POINASCO Sh|                                                             I _..I          5
,  -  …   ICO. r.RA  I                      J
I      I            -     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII   I
4PA~O ..RQlEjA            \                   A         5 1 AO.
LORErT\ |
A                          r....RE  \E   FR11 TORIN (I
|     \                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONECt  ORQURO ETA  !.1
|      : - |  t     ~~~~~~Po RIO NEGRO °1                            PEs-s
4).> s!-  -   B R A Z/ L
A~~~~~~~
NOTE:Mlintescsce Diatricts 1-4  '!
are p th b :: lot fbiity s oE f
|                           l*tO  R A L  AOUINO |            ,___  _ ,_    /               \~~ER
t   ''^'-"'°  W   __-atfiFiUGUATY   \  ~~~~~~co PTO ADELA l/(/
~~~ o  s   T'\   q°             ^   /;                  0     1     CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,FD TR EJ72
BACEVA      *   i     ; ESEO   CECILIOBAEZ  I *                \   
'&  VILAYEi>  5.SSOSAhOA  I  Il°DE MARZO    I                           A 
-t " P.-L of tt'ALTO5 PALM
R..  MilA         I    Y   A    G    U ......ErnD           P1-               PT_tFAiC      O  / _t
C....d d Ig i-AI  I                 AA  I 
/1;~ ~   * 2    '.      yRYCULAICS                PASTOREO* ASI        *'. 'nl/
|~~~~~~~~~~~~T ELENA Itt                   CDL _,j%<LOR               I         K t'
f   S JoAN NEEM0UCU   (   RAZAPE TANSLAIl
v   ss   o     95TA UARIA       SN. PED~~TACU RA
GOARAyBANEJ _Q-. _. .TSPTE --N0ESSNE~~~C                                    TR R A 2 L
'PO            R     Y EST E                    i           POE FRRNS  D   R
/P5T.,  _ _ -  )-_=_       T,CANTIAGO  OG~~UAACAADOTRY N OD  U v,,      (oi  :.96-1A.CrdiN12PA
U   \NVjtl'DE C      ORAIE NEA  Y   V C                                        ENINASo
TERGa~'?                IOMN   Is Ni I                             I     VPILA"
YE,      To  CA   A9A9                                            >1
ASVLIN                             j /      N   A;RAF Y-RAGUATA
GUYRAT,~ ~~ ~SA           ' TAEEN  O.      TORE
S JOAN NEEMBUCIJ   AR~AZAUR    ',OIDO   AUZ
§Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
-            N   -     'OSTA MARIA      PSN PEDR.
PLATERO  I  II-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIAI A 
/      ,/                           - - --ARR  -  SEIDEPONDNCGOAD PROGJP.NT NA
~~  ...~                              Ceetra - -l-4- -t -a-n- SAoA
o  so  so  Be            .~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. E 
sICeUSOERS                                                                J~~~~IN..R



