Docuimnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6242
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT 585-IN
June 5, 1986
Urban and Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its cononts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Oif.e. of Diottwcef4^41
OEm'.* flDvece- C.vra
June 5, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India - Uttar Pradesh
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Re: art on India - Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Loan 585-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Further evalu-
ation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
made.
Attachment
This docutment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT$
Currency Unit   -  Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00            i Rs 8.0 (at appraisal, July 1975)
US$1.00         -  Rs 9.7 (at credit closing, December 1982)
Rs 1 lakh       =  Rs 100,000
Rs 1 crore      =  Rs 10,000,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter              (mm)           0.04 inches                   (in)
1 meter                   (m)        n  3.28 feet                      (ft)
1 kilometer               (km)       3   0.62 miles                     (mi)
1 square meter            (m2)      =  10.8 square feet                 (sq ft)
1 hectare                 (ha)       =  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres                    (ac)
1 square kilometer        (km2)     *   0.386 square miles              (sq mi)
1 liter                   (1)        a  0.26 US gallons                 (gal)
1 liter per capita
per day                 (1/cd)    =   0.26 US gallons per cap.ta
per day                  (gcd)
1 cubic meter             (m3)           35.3 cubic feet               (cu ft)
1 cubic meter per second  (m3/sec)  -   31.5 million cubic meters
per year or
22.8 million US gallons
per day or               (mgd)
35.4 cubic feet per second    (cusecs)
or
86.4 million liters per day
1 million liters
per day                 (mld)          0.01 cubic meters per second  (m3/sec)
ABBREVIATIONS AllD ACRONYMS
GOI               Government of India
UP            =   State of Uttar Pradesh
GUP               State Government of Uttar Pradesh
LIC               Life Insurance Corporation of India
Nigam             Jal Nigam, or the Uttar Pradesh State Water Supply
and Sewerage Development Corporation
KAVAL towns       The five major cities of Uttar Pradesh - Kanpur,
Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad and Luckow
Jal Sansthan  -  Water Authority
RJS           =   Regional Jal Sansthan
LSCED         -   Local Self-Government Engineering Department of
Uttar Pradesh (from June 1975 merged in the Nigam)
WHO/PIP       =   World Health Organization/Preinvestment Planning
Unit of the Division of Environmental Health
FISCAL YEAR
tpril 1 - March 31
Thbs document has  rtriktd disibution and may be usd by cipents only in the peformance
of thir offiW dutes. Its content may not otherwise be disclosd without World Dank authourazton.



INDIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ......oo*oeeeoo.*ooOoeo*o..oeo*o*oooe*ooeoo**Ooeooo*..           .
BASIC DATA SHEET .............................    ii-iv
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 00000000*04 *o@o@.***.*o............................  v-vii
I.   INTRODUCTION .1......             ..............................0....  1
A. Project Origin                    ......                         1
B. Sector Context  Io..... ..00000......0..........                 1
C. Sector Development Objectives .....     ......................  2
D. Project Objectives .....oo...... .................. .........   2
E. Theme and Structure of the PCR                                   3
II.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ... ***...... o ....*.*......o...o. oo   4
Decision Making Process ..oo .oo.. oo.. oe.......o              5
Institutional Transformation o4.....oo..o..o......oo.o...       5
Interagency Relationships uo..oooo.o..o.o.o.o.**.o              5
Conflict with Existing Administrative Practices  ......         6
III. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 7.......o ... *...o........ ......0*o         7
Nigam - a Development Finance Agency ....................       7
Conflict of Interest ...... .............................       8
Capital Budget vs. Recurrent Budget ..................... .
Resource Mobilization                                           9
IV.  PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION 0... ....010
The Appraisal Process                                          10
Project Costs and the Construction Program ..............      10
"Underdisbursement" and Credit Cancellation .............      10
Scale and Diversity of the Project ......................      10
V.  OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS ....................                       11
Construction vs. Maintenance                                   11
Systems vs. People                                             11
Metering and Leak Detection                                    12
VI.  BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                                 12
VII. OPTIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS .............13
Annexes  1 - 3                                                        15-21
ATTACHMENT A - Comments from the Borrower ............       .22



-1-
PRRJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PREFACE
The Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project (the Project) was
the Bank Group's first statewide operation in the water supply and sewerage
sector in India. During the long implementation period of this Project
(September 1975 - June 1984), there have been many adjustments in the
approach, objectivess design, institutional and financial arrangements in
GOI's sector investment strategy. These adjustments have also been reflected
in the evolution of the Bauk Group's policies and priorities for development
assistance to the sector.
This ProjAct Completion Report (PCR) focuses on the environment
in which the Project was conceived end the impact of that environment an
implementation. This focus is intended to place this Project in the contest
of an evolving and dynamic sector development strategy in India and to iden-
tify certain key lessons. The PCR has been prepared by the staff of the
Urban and Water Supply Division of the South Asia Projects Department, in
conjunction with a broader study of financial and institutional performance
of all &ink financed water supply and sewerage projects in India, 1/ under-
taken during 1983-1984. The analysis included in this PCR draws upon and
supports the conclusions of the above study. Data, analyses and conclusions
included in this PCR have been discussed with the relevant project agencies
in Uttar Pradesh.
In accordance with revised procedures for project performance audit
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (ORD),
but the project was not audited by OlD staff.
Following standard procedures, ORD sent copies of the draft PCR to
the Government and the Borrower for comments. Conmmuets were received from
the Borrower and these are reproduced as Attachment A to the report.
1/ A draft Report, "Water Supply and Sewerage Projects Financed by the World
Bank in India: Financial and Institutional Performance", was issued in
May 1985 and is the subject of ongoing discussion with COX and various
State Government officials.



-ii-
INDIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (UPWSSP)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Key                                     Appraisal          Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ M)                          15.0            94.0
Overrun (t)                                           -             25X 1/
Credit Amount (US$ 4)                               40.0           40.0
Disbursed                                             -             31.6
Cancelled                                                            8.4
Repaid to September 1985                              -              0.2
Outstanding to September 1985                       40.0            31.4
Outstanding with Exchauige Adjustment               39.8            31.4
Exchange Adjustment                                   -
Date of Physical Completion                          9/79          6/84 2/
Time Overrun (X)                                      -             95
Financial Performance                                          Not satisfactory
Institutional Performance                                      Not satisfactory
Physical Performance                                           Satisfactory
I/ Due to significant savings in procurements of local materials, the cost
overrun does not bear direct relationship to time overrun.
2/ Project was about 93X physically completed when the credit was closed,
and the balance of US$8.4 million was cancelled, in July 1983.



-iii-
INDIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (UPWSSP)
BASIC DATA SHEET (CONTVD)
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS (US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                  Appraisal Estimates               Actual
1976                               3,300                         -
1977                              15,900                         550
1978                              30,000                       4,800
1979                              38,200                      11,800
1980                              40,000                      19,700
1981                                                          26,300
1982                                                          27,600
1983                                                          31,500
1984                                                          31,600 1/
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                                     Estimates     Revisions       Actual
First Mentioned in Operations Timetable      -              -          8/21/74
Government's Application                     -              -          6/30/74
Negotiations                                 -              -          6/30/75
Board Presentation                           -              -          8/19/75
Credit Agreement Date                        -              -          9/25/75
Effective Date                               -              -          2/ 6/76
Closing Date                              6/30/80       12/31/82      12/31/82
Borrower                                            Government of India
Executing Agency                                    U.P. Jal Nigam
Fiscal Year of Borrower 3                           April 1 - M?krch 31
Follow-on Project                                       None 2/
1/ US$8.4 million was cancelled on July 19, 1983.
2/ A credit of US$25 million for an urban development project in Kanpur, one
of the UPNISP project towns, was signed on February 4, 1982. The Kanpur
project included investments in water supply and sewerage as part of
an urban package. A "statewide" urban development project is under
preparation. It will include also investments in water supply and
sewerage. All UPWSSP towns are expected to be included in the proposed
project.



-iv-
INDIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (UPWSSP)
BASIC DATA SHEET (CONT'D)
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of       Man-Weeks    Date of
Item              Month/Year      Weeks      Persons   (Field only)    Report
Reconnaissance       12/71         0.6          2            1.2        1/17/72
Reconnaissance        8/73         1.4          2           2.8         9/24/73
Pre-appraisal        4/74          3.4          2           6.8         6/ 7/74
Appraisal             9/74         4.0          5           14.0       11/ 7174
Post Appraisal        1/75         5.0          1           5.0         3/17/75
Pre-Negotiations     6/75          0.6          2            1.2        6/30/75
Total                     15.0                     31.0
Supervision I        9/75          1.6          3           4.8        10/ 6/75
It     II      11/75          1.2          2           2.4         1/26/76
III      2/76          0.6         2            1.2        3/17/76
it     IV       4/76          0.8          1           0.8         5/18/76
it     V       10/76          0.6          2           1.2        10/29/76
It     VI      12/76          1.0          1           1.0         1/26/77
'VII     6/77          1.6         3            4.8         7/ 7/77
to     VIII     3/78          2.0          3           6.0         4/13/78
to     IX       9/78          1.0          2           2.0        11/20/78
It     x       10/78          0.6          1           0.6         1/10/79
XI       3/79          0.6         2            1.2         3/15/79
XII      9/79          3.6         3           10.8        11/ 5/79
XIII     2/81          2.0         3            6.0         3/25/81
XIV      3/82          '.0         2            2.0         6/ 7/82
Completion           4/83          0.6          1           0.6         6/30/83
Total                     18.8                     45.4
Name of Currency                                  Rupee (Rs)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average                    Exchange Rate: US$13Rs 8.09
Intervening Years Average                                US$1Rs 8.67
Completion Year Average                                  US$1-Rs10.69



INDIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.      The Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project was ambitious in
its scope, institutional expectations and financial objectives. The Project
has been largely successful in its physical implementation, although it took
nearly 9 years to complete (September 1975 - June 1984). Institutional and
financial performance, however, has not been fully satisfactory. This PCR
explores the various underlying reasons for this unsatisfactory performance.
Project implementation has produced several key lessons for the future. 't
should be noted that the Project was a new venture for both Bank and the
Government of India.
2.      The major characteristics of the Project are summarized below:
(a) It was the first state-wide water supply and sewerage
project in India, located in India's largest state;
(b) It was the first project in India to include major water
supply components for rural areas;
(c) It was intended to replace relatively weak institutions with
a completely new institutional framework in the sector - The
Jal Nigam as a financing and implementing agency at the state
level, five KAVAL 1/ Jal Sansthans for operation and maintenance
in the larger towns, and three regional Jal Sansthans for
operation and maintenance in smaller towns and rural areas;
(d) It was expected to achieve ambitious physical, institutional and
financial performance targets, through a single project within
the span of only a few years and with strong interdependence
among the targets; achievement as well as measurement of
improved financial performance was to be dependent on the
prior establishment of the new entities. Staff were to be
transferred from municipal governments to the semi-autonomous
Jal Sansthans.
3.      The following paragraphs summarize the key lessons that emerged from
implementation of the Project. Many of these findings have been and are
being incorporated in the design and implementation of later generations of
water supply and sewerage projects in the region.
1/ Kanpur, Allabad, Varanasi, Agra', Lucknow.



-vti-
A. Institutional Development
(i)     The Bank should help the implementing agencies to develop a climate
for change, including satisfied consumers, recognizing that the ultimate
decision making authority is political (para. 2.04).
(ii)    The scale and pace of institutional reforms, should be more realisti-
cally established, especially when dealing with entities with a long history
and radically different operating environment; and broad reforms should be
implemented as a series of discrete, politically and administratively
feasible actions (para 2.05).
(iii)   The principal actors in the sector should subscribe to project objec-
tives; broad participation in the planning, design, execution and operating
phases of a project should be obtained (para 2.06).
(iv)    Efforts to undertake major reorganizations of institutions should
address the underlying constraints of existing administrative, personnel
management, renumeration and career movement practices, and should resolve
the anomalies which may exist between the existing and proposed practices
(para 2.07).
B. Financial Performance
{i)     Attempts to establish viable financial intermediaries or financial
instruments for long term financing of sector investments should be preceeded
by ensuring sound financial health of relevant agencies and development of a
clearly defined fiscal relationship between the intermediaries and operating
agencies (para 3.03).
(ii)    A greater degree of financial accountability should be introduced in
the system of funds flow among agencies to avoid any perception of conflict
of interest between the construction and the operating agency (para 3.04).
(iii)   Investment programs should be designed in such a way that they can be
sustained (properly operated and maintained) by the revenue budget of the
operating agencies; realistic cost recovery measures should be required in
order to justify investments (para 3.05).
(iv)    A broader view of overall municipal resource mobilization should be
taken in view of the inheren. linkages between the revenue base for water
supply and sewerage and for general municipal taxes (e.g. property tax)
(para 3.06).
C. Physical Implementation
(i)     The "self-appraisal" of individual schemes (subprojects) by the
implementing agency should be recognized as entailing a learning process,



-Vii-
especially for newly created agencies, which takes time and thus the
implementation timetable should provide for the additional time required
(para 4.02).
(ii)    The physical scale, complexity and diversity of projects should not
exceed the executing agency's managerial and operational capacity to imple-
ment, especially if such an agency is new and undergoing major institutional
restructuring (para 4.05).
D. Operational Improvements
(i)     Greater emphasis should be placed on increasing the Borrowers' aware-
ness of the importance of operations and maintenance, and projects should be
effectively used to "elevate" the institutional role of operations and main-
tenance (para 5.02).
(ii)    The importance of better management use of information from improved
systems and procedures should be emphasized during project preparation and
supervision (para 5.03).
(35i)   Alternative options to total domestic metering should be carefully
examined in terms of practical management problems and long term economic
implications (para 5.04).
e. Role of the Bank
(i)     The Bank's role during supervision should be oriented more toward
forming an early working partnership and heightening official and political
awareness of the fundamental project objectives (paras 6.05(a)(b)).
(ii)    Supervision missions should play a more constructive role (as opposed
to an '"audit" role) in assisting project agencies with identifying detailed
action programs which together serve to achieve overall project objectives
(para 6.05(c)).



-1-
INDIA
PROJEZCT COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 585-IN UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Project Origin
1.01    Following a 1972 GOI request for IDA assistance in financing water
supply and sewerage investments in Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) a WHO/PIP mission,
under the IBRD/WHO cooperative program, conducted a sector survey for U.P. in
1973. The major findings of the survey, reaffirmed by an IDA preappraisal
mission in late 1974, confirmed the urgent need to improve service levels in
water supply and sanitation both in the major urban centers of U.P. and in
selected rural areas facing a critical scarcity of water. It was recognized
that to respond effectively to the scale of such needs, major changes were
necessary in the institutional framework for planning, design, execution,
operation and maintenance. The Project was appraised in mid-1975.
1.02    To implement the necessary institutional reforms, Government of Uttar
Pradesh (GUP) first attempted to establish a State Water Board in 1973. But
this move was found to be politically unacceptable. Finally, in 1975, an
ordinance was passed which provided for the development, maintenance and
regulation of the sector, and indicated steps towards a major sector
reorganization. This sector reorganization consisted of the formation and
development of the Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans. The 'al Nigam (the "Nigam")
was to be the development finance agency for the water supply and sewerage
sector, responsible fi,.: planning, monitoring, and regulating the sector
throughout the state. In its role as the planning and regulatory agency, the
Nigam was to advise CUP on all policy matters in the sector. The Nigam was
also to plan, design and construct all projects in the sector. Local water
authorities, the Jal Sansthans, were established .s operate and maintain
water supply and sewerage facilities for both the urban and rural
populations. The Nigam thus became the key executing agency for the Projeor
and, in a larger context, the intermediary between the Bank and the local
water authorities in U.P.
B. Sector Context
1.03    The population of UP is about 110 million.  About 86Z of the
population live in or around 112,000 villages; the rest of the population
resides in 293 towns. The population of the towns ranges from 5000 to almost
2 million (Kanpur). The economy of the state is predominantly agricultural;
78% of the workers are engaged in agriculture. The average annual per capita.
income is $80 (ranging from $60 in the poorest rural area to $120 in the
KAVAL towns).
1.04    At the time of appraisal, only 30% of the population had access to
a safe water supply with the rest having polluted or inadequate supplies.
In rural areas, only 5000 villages had piped systems, with the others relying
on polluted systems. Over 32,000 villages were in drought-prone or rocky
areas or classified as hardship areas. Of the 293 towns with piped water



-2-
supply, 112 did not have a safe system and 86 required many improvements to
safeguard the existing systems. Forty towns had limited sewerage systems;
no systems existed in rural areas. The urban systems had been built in the
late 19th century. During 1900 to about 1950, the systems had been generally
adequate and properly maintained. But in the following 30 years, high
population growth rate, failure of the local bodies to adopt appropriate
financial policies, and poor operations and maintenance led to the systems
being incapable of meeting demand, and the local bodies being financially
dependent on CUP for operating the systems.
C. Sector Development Objectives
1.05    In the urban areas, CUP's sector development goals were to
(a) increase coverage and improve service level standards, (b) improve
financial performance of urban water undertakings so that sufficient funds
could be generated for their own expansion and for support of poorer and less
viable systems in the sector, (c) provide the needed investments to upgrade
and expand the systems, and (d) develop and train the needed manpower to
operate and maintain the systems, including financial and managerial
personnel. The third five year plan (1961-66) was the first to contain a
significant program of rural water supply.  However, the responsible local
bodies were unable to employ the necessary technical and financial expertise
to operate and maintain them. Systems oft.en broke down and were unreliable,
and financial systems were never developed (e.g. villagers were never
charged). CUP's sector development goals for rural water supply were to
provide the needed investments to upgrade the existing systems as well as
expand the number of rural systems, and to develop the needed organization,
manpower and systems for proper operation, maintenance and financial
management.
1.06    It was recognized early that State Plan allocations for the sector
would not be large enough to make a significant impact, given that estimates
of the required development program for the next 15 years were of the order
of Rs 1,000 crores. CUP decided that the central framework of its sector
development strategy would be to mobilize potential resources within the
sector by commencing a major reorganisation of the sector, introducing fiscal
discipline, and improving the efficiency of operations and maintenance. One
of the motivations for this decision was that Life Insurance Corporation of
India (LIC), one of the principal institutional lenders, had been reluctant
to participate in financing of rural water supply schemes due to the poor
financial conditions of these schemes. In 1974 LIC threatened to cease
lending for urban water supply and sewerage schemes as well due largely to
poor debt service performance of UP local bodies.
D. Project Objectives
1.07    To support CUP's sector development goals, the overall project
objectives were to:



-3-
(a) assist in the reorganization of the water supply and sewerage
sector in the state,
(b) construct new piped water supply schemes in rural areas suffering
from water scarcity and hardship,
(c) improve and augment the water supply and sewerage system in the
five KAVAL cities in the state (Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahbad
and Lucknow),
(d) implement the necessary systems and procedural reforms in order to
achieve better fiscal discipline and to strengthen operations and
maintenance, and
(e) develop human resource skills in the sector through technical
assistance and training - particularly in management and finance.
1.08    A series of financial, institutional and operational covenants were
established in order to ensure that the above project objectives would be
met. Compliance with these covenants under the Project was one of several
examples cited in a broader study entitled "Operational Policy Review:
Compliance With Loan Covenants", undertaken by OED. 1/  The OED report
suggested that while the underlying sector and project objectives remain
worthwhile targets to aim for, there were doubts about the realism and
appropriateness of several covenants and suggested that the time frame set
for attaining the financial objectives were too short and to that extent
unrealistic. The report also indicated that there appeared to be a general
misinterpretation of the purpose and implication of the financial covenants
'. the executing agencies. The financial covenants were perceived more as
sedsures to ensure servicing of the IDA credit, rather than tools for
achieving financial self-sufficiency. It also appeared that the potential
institutional, administrative and political difficulties in project
implementation were underestimated at appraisal. Notwithstanding the
reasonableness or importance of the project objectives, the report suggests
that most of these were not fully achieved, largely due to an unrealistic
time frame and a lack of clearly defined actions required to achieve these
objectives.
E. Theme and Structure of the PCR
1.09    The analyses undertaken for this PCR support the overall conclusions
of the OED Report. During the preparation of the PCR, it became evident that
during project implementation relatively more emphasis was placed by the
1/ Report No. 4090, September, 1982.



-4-
Nigam on the physical construction aspects of the Project - with little or no
emphasis on the institutional reforms or financial performance of the sector
as a whole (which include both the Nigam and Jal Sansthans). Consequently,
there has been minimal reliable or relevant financial information available
to permit a meaningful quantitative analysis of the status of Project
finances. Nonetheless it may be assumed that the financial objectives and
the financial targets (especially at the Jal Sansthans' level) were not
achieved.
1.10    This PCR is designed to highlight the underlying reasons and
implications of why some of the project objectives were not achieved. In
terms of long term sector development strategy, an analysis of the structural
and qualitative dimensions of project design and implementation is most
relevant at this stage. The PCR highlights certain central themes related to
each of the key project objectives.
II. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
2.01    Two major objectives were to be pursued by reorganizing the sector
through the creation of the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans. The Nigam was
designated as the key sector agency. It was assigned a multiplicity of
responsibilities, including planning, monitoring and regulating investments
in the sector; advising GUP on all sectoral policy matters; appraising,
implementing and supervising construction of specific schemes; and providing
development finance. The Jal Sansthans, on the other hand, were given
responsibility for properly operating and maintaining local water supply and
sewerage facilities and for generating adequate internal financial resource
through tariffs and taxes.
2.02    Undoubtedly, developing the Nigam was an ambitious undertaking,
especially considering the fact that the Nigam was to be "converted" from a
State Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) into an autonomous sector
policy, construction, monitoring and finance agency. Transition from the
"engineering and construction" orientation of the PHED into a much broader
"sector management" orientation proved to be difficult for the Nigam,
especially within the timeframe envisioned under the Project. The Jal
Sansthans found it difficult to relate to their revised role under the
Project particularly because of their minimal upstream involvement in sector
reorganization and project formulation, and their lack of appreciation of the
fact that ultimate financial and operating responsibilities of the schemes
were, in effect, theirs.
2.03    The institutional objectives of the Project, though not totally
achieved, nonetheless have played a positive role in increasing awareness of
the need for (a) better planning and sector management practices, (b) greater
financial self-sufficiency, and (c) proper operations and maintenance. In



-5-
the case of Nigam, there have been demonstrated improvements in techniques of
project appraisal, adoption of realistic service level standards, materials
management practices, construction management and procurement practices, etc.
The Nigam, however, continues to be weak in planning investments, monitoring
project performance, accounting, and providing technical assistance to the
Jal Sansthans in engineering, finance and management. The Jal Sansthans have
achieved some improvements in the areas of routine management (e.g., billing
and collection, metering and accounting systems), but generally their
operations continue to be unsatisfactory. Inability to raise adequate
resources through tariffs and taxes, inefficient operations (large
wastage/leakage, poor meter management, etc.), and inadequate operation and
maintenance of facilities, threaten their viability. The following are some
of the underlying causes for not having achieved fully the project's
institutional objectives.
2.04    Decision-Making Process.  Although the U.P. Jal Nigam Act provides
the Nigam with a wide range of powers extending from investment program
formulation to setting tariff policies, in practice the Nigam can exercise
these powers only in an advisory capacity to CUP. All final decisions,
especially those which are politically sensitive - such as tariff setting -
are made by the political process within CUP. The Nigam, despite its stated
role as the key sector agency has no power to enforce its decisions or to
impose its priorities on the Jal Sansthans. Consequently, those
development objectives which did not receive political support,
were difficult to achieve. The Nigam's role as a regulatory agency
establishing investment priorities on the basis of Jal Sansthan's ability to
operate and maintain the assets, and the Jal Sansthans financial viability
through the collection of tariffs and taxes, continue to be politically
sensitive subjects. One aspect of this issue is the need for the Nigam and
the Jal Sansthans to demonstrate improved efficiency and better service to
the public before political support can be expected.
2.05    Institutional Transformation.  Although the objective of
institutional reform remains valid, careful consideration must be given to
the scale and pace for achieving such reforms. The reforms under the Project
were ambitious, within the expected timeframe, given that the Nigam was
created out of the PHED and the Jal Sansthans were created out of the local
authorities' water supply departments - both with long and varied histories
of operations and distinctive management environments. The process of
institutional transformation was not accompanied by carefully designed
changes in all aspects of the entities, such as personnel management
practices, managerial accountability, procedural changes in administrative,
operating and financial policies. In retrospect, it appears that not enough
detail was built into project design to address these "building blocks" of
institutional changes. Detailed action plans outlining the sequence of steps
to achieve the ultimate objectives would have been useful.
2.06    Interagency Relationships.  The Project was developed around and in
consultation with the Jal Nigam, with little or no participation by the Jal
Sansthans - the agencies ultimately responsible for repaying the loans on



-6-
these investments and for operating and maintaining the assets. Although in
principle each Jal Sansthan gave their approval to the Nigam to proceed with
construction this lack of upstream participation nonetheless produced two
major difficulties. First, the Jal Sansthans did not perceive the need or
the urgency to prepare themselves institutionally or financially to take
responsibilities for these investments. Second, the Jal Sansthans felt
little or no compulsion to take on the financial and operating
responsibilities for these projects. The Jal Sansthans had no substantive
input into the nature, size or implementation of their respective projects
(all of which were basically done by the Nigam). Consequently, upon
commissioning, the process of "handing over" these projects by the Nigam to
the Jal Sansthans proved to be difficult. This reluctance was reinforced by
the fact that the Jal Sansthan, in instances, did not have the necessary
financial or technical resources to undertake this additional responsibility.
Many of them perceived these projects as the Nigam's "products", with which
they had had little to do. Even now, many schemes continue to be operated
and maintained by the Nigam because of refusal by the Jal Sansthans to take
them over. This situation clearly demonstrates that there must be an
explicit commitment to a project, by all agencies concerned - and
particularly by those ultimately responsible for financing and operating
them - in order to ensure that project objectives are met.
2.07    Conflict with Existing Administrative Practices.  The reforms under
the Project in institutional responsibilities and financial practices for
both the Nigam and the Jal Sanathans, in instances, ran contrary to the
prevailing practices of the predecessor agencies as well as GUP. For
instance, administrative costs (particularly wages) were originally estimated
based on historical levels at PHED for the Nigam and at local authorities for
the Jal Sansthans. However, formation of the Nigam and Jal Sansthans
(parastatal and semi-autonomous authorities) required GUP to adopt different
salary structures in order to provide "parity" with similar institutions.
CUP estimates that this institutional transformation resulted in a nearly 20%
increase in the salary budgets for these agencies. More importantly, clear
seniority, promotion, and other personnel management policies were not
established for the new agencies. The staff of the newly created Nigam, for
a long time following its creation (from 1975 to about 1981), continued to be
on deputation from their parent organization PHED - a U.P. State Government
cadre. The staff of the Jal Sansthans still are on deputation from the
State's Local Government Service. GUP continues to be responsible for
promotion, transfer, recruitment of staff of the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans.
Lack of appreciation for and resolution of such administrative issues, which
are inherent in any institutional restructuring, often defeated the
underlying objective of creating independent agencies. Lack of institutional
"allegiance" on part of the employees resulted in a lack of commitment toward
reform.



-7-
III. FINANCIAL PERFORNANCE
3.01    The overriding financial objectives of the Project were as follows:
(a) The Nigam was designated to be the sector's development finance
agency; whereby the Nigam, after its initial capitalization by
CUP, would borrow from the capital market (guaranteed by GUP)
to finance long-term sector construction activities;
(b) the Nigam was to finance its own recurrent budget (administrative
and overhead costs) through a variety of fees and charges from its
clients - the Jal Sansthans;
(c) the Jal Sansthans - the agencies ultimately responsible for
financing and operating the systems - would be financially viable,
and the Jal Sansthans would repay the debt against the investments
to CUP "through" the Nigam; and
(d) CUP and the Nigam were to ensure that the financial viability of
the Jal Sansthans was achieved by "causing" the Jal Sansthans to make
necessary adjustments to tariffs and taxes such that either a degree
of cash coverage (in case of rural Jal Sansthans) or a rate of return
(for KAVAL Jal Sansthans) was achieved.
3.02    Reliable operating or financial information was not received either
from the Nigam or any of the Jal Sansthans throughout the implementation of
the Project. 1/ Consequently, it is futile to attempt any quantitative
analysis of the financial performance of either the Nigam or any of the Jal
Sansthans. However, given that both the Nigam and the Jal Sanstbans continue
to depend on CUP for varying degrees of operating subsidy, it is evident that
the two critical financial covenants (items 3.01(c) and (d) above) of the
legal agreements were not complied with. Notwithstanding the lack of
reliable financial data, it is important to analyze the underlying premises
of these financial objectives.
3.03    Nigam - a Development Finance Agency.  The objective of creating a
development finance agency to implement a long term investment program,
(especially in a state as large as U.P., with resource scarcity) is clearly
valid. However, there have been three key hurdles to achieving this
objective. First, a true "capital market' does not exist in India. Any
I/ The first and only reliable set of financial statements were received
in April 1985 from the Kanpur Jal Sansthan (through supervision and
technical assistance efforts, under the Kanpur Urban Development Project,
Credit 1185-IN), for the year ending March 31, 1982.



-8-
borrowings by the Nigam are a part of the State's overall borrowings and
therefore are subject to the normal constraints of the budgetary allocation
process. Consequently, financing the sector development program, by default,
becomes a CUP decision. Second, for the Nigam to "think" and "operate" like
a development finance company, would require a drastic shift from its
"engineering and construction" orientation, inherited from its past as PHED
(para 2.05). Although the project design included the establishment of
accounting procedures and accounts, these measures could not guarantee that
the objective would be met. Finally, the expectation that the Jal Sansthans
would repay their debts in time to CUP through the Nigam has not fully
materialized. Most Jal Sansthans are seriously delinquent in their debt
service obligations and some have never repaid any amount. Although CUP is
ultimately responsible for these debts, by implication, the Nigam's
creditworthiness is questionable.
3.04    Conflict of Interest.  Problems of interagency relationships between
the Nigam and Jal Sansthans (para 2.06) have, in part been the cause of the
above financial problems. However, this problem has been exacerbated by the
fact that there is a perceived conflict of interest because of the multiple
roles of the Nigam - as a project developer, construction agency and a
financier. While it can not be substantiated, an argunent could be made that
it is in the interest of the Nigam to design large projects and delay
construction since a large portion of its revenues are generated from fixed
percentage charges (about 20Z) based on the cost of works executed. Whether
real or apparent, it is imperative that the appearance of such a conflict of
interest be avoided.
3.05    Capital Budget vs. Recurrent Budget.  The Project was designed to
certain physical targets of coverage and service delivery standards. It was
assumed that affordable tariffs and charges borne by all levels of consumers
would generate adequate revenues at the Jal Sansthan level, to sustain these
investments. Implicit in these assumptions was the view that the recurrent
budgets of the Jal Sansthans would be able to "carry" their capital budgets,
assuming there was adequate cost recovery through tariffs and taxes. In
reality, this did not materialize, largely due to unwillingness of Jal
Sansthans to adopt appropriate tariff and pricing policies. Annex 1
indicates the current levels of tariffs in effect. It is worth noting that
the latest substantial tariff increase was in Kanpur Jal Sansthan in November
1979. A modest tariff increase of 28X was implemented in Kanpur in September
1985. No other Jal Sansthan has succeeded in revising its tariffs since
1978-79. Although revised tariffs were recommended and approved by the Nigam
in 1984, none has yet been implemented, reflecting the Nigam's lack of
enforcement power. Yet, the schemes have been built, and in the absence of
adequate funds for operations and maintenance, will soon fall into disrepair
and disuse. Therefore, as a safeguard, it may be more appropriate to tailor
the investment program (capital budget) so that it can be sustained by a
realistic revenue base (recurrent budget).



-9-
3.06    Resource Mobilization.  It is evident that mainly due to a lack of
(a) political will on the part of GUP and the Jal Sansthans (para 2.04); (b)
committment to the Project objectives by the Jal Sansthans (para 2.06); and
(c) legal enforcement authority by the Nigam in setting tariffs (para 3.05),
the financial health of the Nigam as well as the Jal Sansthans continues to
be poor. Several other dimensions of tariffs also need to be explored.
Institutional problems initially prevented the Jal Sansthans from addressing
financial issues effectively. There was significant political opposition at
various levels against a substantial increase in tariffs before any benefits
accrued from the Project. Water/sewer charges were in most cases linked with
other municipal taxes, which made it difficult to effect rate increases.
These municipal taxes, in turn, were linked to rent control legislations,
which further limited the base on which these taxes could be assessed.
Delays in project implementation as well as unforseen price escalation
increased the cost of operations thus requiring even larger tariff increases.
These problems were exacerbated by the low income levels of the people,
especially in rural areas.  The above factors suggest that, given the
inherent linkages and interdependence between revenue resources for water
supply and sewerage and the overall municipal resource base, it is important
to take a much broader view of resource mobilization for water supply and
sewerage. In conjunction with measures for direct cost recovery (through
tariffs and specified taxes), efforts will need to be made to improve the
overall municipal resource base of a city - in which water supply and
sewerage are two of many other services.



-10-
IV. PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
4.01    Despite long i-plementation delays (952 time overrun), physical
implementation of specific subprojects has been generally good. Annex 2
compares estimated versus actual works completed, by major category of works.
Most of the works were carried out by the Nigam's workforce. No major
procurement problems were experienced during project implementation. The
following are some of the key underlying causes of both cost and time
overruns.
4.02    The Appraisal Process.  The project financed a program of investment.
The total program envisioned nearly 1,000 individual schemes in the KAVAL
towns and about 2,000 in the rural areas. The Bank appraised a selected
number of sub-projects (about 40X of total project costs) in detail and
established guidelines for the appraisal process. The Nigam was expected
to apply this process to other subprojects (the remaining 601). This
approach, in the long run, has been generally successful and beneficial to
the institution building process of the Nigam. However, at early stages of
the implementation process, the Nigam experienced difficulties in adapting to
a different method of project evaluation, causing initial implementation
delays.
4.03    Project Costs and the Construction Program.  Annex 3 shows estimated
versus actual project costs by each sub-project. Despite 951 time overrun,
the table indicates only a 281 cost overrun - from an estimated Rs 60 crores
to about Rs 75 crores. This discrepancy can be partly explained by the fact
that cert in key materials used in the project, such as prestressed concrete
pipes, were already in the Nigam's stock and were originally purchased at a
much lower cost than estimated under the project. Approximately Rs 15 crores
worth of pipes were charged to the Project at cost of acquisition, which, if
procured during the project implementation period, would have cost about
Rs 25 crores. This resulted in a net savings of about Rs 10 crores.
4.04    "Underdisbursement" and Credit Cancellation.  Although the Bank
agreed with the Nigam that it could utilize materials in stock for the
Project, the disbursement percentage against this category was not adjusted
during project implementation to reflect its lower historical cost. Further-
more, the project cost overrun was concentrated in categories with relatively
low disbursement percentages. Consequently, the Nigam was unable to draw
down fully the credit amount -- resulting in a cancellation of about US$8
million of unutilized credit.
4.05    Scale and Diversity of the Project.  As indicated in para 4.02, the
magnitude of the physical works and the diversity of the project was large,
even for an entity as large as the Nigam. The Nigam had not previously
executed works on this large scale. This rapid increase in the lejvel of
activity, for a newly created agency which was being simultaneously subjected



-11-
to major institutional reforms, caused basic administrative and procedural
bottlenecks and implementation delays. After nearly a decade of implementa-
tion experience, the Nigam has largely overcome these problems. However,
initially it found it necessary to respond to the situation by giving addi-
tional operational responsibilities to various levels of managers who were
ill prepared or trained to adequately undertake these additional functions.
V. OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
5.01    ro support the institutional and financial reforms, various initia-
tives were undertaken to improve the overall operating efficiency of both the
Nigam and Jal Sansthans. For the Nigam, the project included improvements in
such areas as accounting, materials management, and project management sys-
tems. For the Jal Sansthans, efforts were made to improve billing and col-
lection, accounting, metering and meter maintenance, leak detection, etc.
Progress has been made (more so in the Nigam than in the Jal Sansthans), but
in general actual operational. improvements have fallen far short of expecta-
tions. The underlying reasons for not achieving significant improvements in
operating efficiency, are governed by institutional, traditional, procedural
and human resource considerations.
5.02    Construction vs. Maintenance.  Traditionally, the operations and
maintenance functions have taken a "back-seat" to the more glamorous con-
struction activities. This stems largely from the engineering orientation
of the agencies involved - the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans continue to be
influenced by this philosophy. There is a lack of appreciation for the
importance of operations and maintenance and an absence of an institutional
coamitment toward improving operating efficiency. These factors have
mitigated the potential benefits which could have been achieved through
various procedural reforms. To illustrate, the Project provided eight sewer
cleaning machines for use by the Jal Sansthans. Latest information suggests
that none of the equipments has ever been used.
5.03    Systems vs. People.  The purpose and usefulness of improved systems
must be fully understood by their users and better management use made of
these systems and resulting information. Improved systems by themselves
cannot improve operating efficiency. Under the Project, various assignments
were undertaken by corsultants in order to design, implement and train agency
personnel in accounting, financial and project management systems. However,
these efforts were perceived by the staff as being largely "requirements of
the Bank" rather than tools for more effective and efCicient management. With
some degree of exception at the Nigam no perceptible benefits have yet been
derived from the design of better systems - since they have so far not been
seriously used.



-12-
5.04    Metering and Leak Detection.  As means to conserve water, to relate
charges to consumption, and to control wastage, the Project emphasized the
need for universal metering. Although some progress has been achieved in
metering of consumers, production metering had not received the required
attention. Consumer metering also met with some degree of public and politi-
cal opposition. Moreover, the management of the metering program (including
installation, meter reading, meter maintenance and repair) continues to be a
major problem. These problems are not technical, but reflect fundamental
attitudinal problems and managerial shortcomings related to the basic concept
of metering. Although metering of high consumption users is essential, the
economics and meter management problems experienced in the Project suggest
that the concept of total domestic metering should be approached with more
caution. Alternative options such as use of flow restriction devices, flat
rate charges based on estimated consumption, or charges linked to certain
physical characteristics of properties, should be explored.
VI. BANK's PERFORMANCE
6.01    Discussions with the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans highlight several
interesting perceptions held by these agencies with regard to their
interaction with the Bank. The Project represented a new venture for both
the Bank and the agencies involved. It was the first "encounter" that the
Nigam and the Jal Sansthans had with the Bank. These agencies have sug-
gested, in retrospect (after nearly a decade), that clearly the Bank's expec-
tations in institutional and financial objectives were too high, a fact which
they recognized at that time. But mainly due to unfamiliarity with the Bank
and a lack of "self-confidence" on their part, it was difficult for them to
assert themselves.
6.02    Linked to the above perception, the agencies also suggested that
there was a lack of full appreciation by the Bank of their state of prepared-
ness (institutionally and politically) to undertake a project of such scale
and complexity. It was also perceived, again in restropect, that perhaps a
smaller, less ambitious and less complex project, supported by a "catalytic"
role by the Bank would have helped to establish a more "comfortable" working
relationship; and lay the foundation for a sustained, albeit slow, process of
institutional reform.
6.03    The above views of the agencies, whether real or apparent, merit due
consideration. The appraisal report noted that a large supervision input
would be required: some 70 man-weeks per year during the first couple of
years of implementation and about 40 man-weeks per year thereafter. The
actual supervision input has been less than half of what was specified in the
appraisal report, with relatively little field supervision during the last
few years. For instance, there have been only two supervision missions since



-13-
September 1979: in February 1981 and in March 1982 (the last full supervi-
sion). Staff constraints, including a shortage of staff with institutional
skills, precluded more intensive supervision during the early years. In
later years, The Bank tended to reduce supervision even further while await-
ing GOI/GOUP responses to Bank's observations on overall project performance.
6.04    Since the outset of project implementation and supervision, there
have been divergent views within the Bank on project performence and on the
supervision approach:
(a) supervision missions usually have been critical of the institutional
and financial performance of the Jal Sansthans, and over time have
increasingly emphasized the lack of substantial tariff increases as
the principal reason for poor financial performance; while
(b) other staff have stressed the need to address in a more detailed and
action-oriented manner the underlying operational and institutional
performance issues that appeared to need to be resolved if improved
financial performance were to be achieved over the longer term.
6.05    The role of the Bank during project preparation and implementation
merits careful consideration especially when new institutions are being
created with new mandates and without prior exposure to the Bank. The case
of the U.P. project suggests the following:
(a) a partnership with borrowers should be sought through achievement
of an early and mutual understanding of objectives and constraints;
(b) official and political awareness of the basic objectives of the
projects should be promoted by preparation, appraisal and supervision
missions; and
(c) missions should be assigned a constructive and "catalytic" role
in helping project agencies (especially those newly created) in
identifying, structuring and implementing specific operational,
managerial and financial actions that underlie the overall
objectives and targets.
VII. OPTIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
7.01    The projects which have followed the U.P. Water Supply and Sewerage
Project in India, and elsewhere in the region, have varied institutional and
financial arrangements and a wide range of operational and financial perfor-
mance targets. Many of the lessons learned from the U.P. Water Supply and
Sewerage Project already have been incorporated in these projects. Given
that the same institutional structure and financial arrangements continue in



-14-
U.P., future Bank Group involvement in the sector in U.P. 1/ should consider
the following options in project design. Some of the proposals below repre-
sent procedural reforms, while some are more radical:
(a) the detailed planning, design and execution of projects could be
transferred from the Nigan: to private consulting firms, independently
retained by the Jal Sansthans while maintaining the Nigam's role as
the overall sector planning agency;
(b) the project financing function could be revised so that the Jal
Sansthans are the direct borrowers and hence their awareness and
sense of ownership responsibility for the investments might be
established at an early stage;
(c) the roles of the Nigam might be redefined as (i) sector planning,
advice and monitoring and (ii) construction in competition with
private companies;
(d) reconsider the relationship between the Jal Sansthans and local
authorities(corporations and municipalities) recognizing the
interdependenct of tax-based cost recovery mechanisms;
(e) the size of the investment program and annual capital expenditures
required to achieve specified operational and financial targets
should be considered jointly;
(f) at the Jal Sansthan or municipal level consider the establishment
of a Utility Rate Commission, or equivalent in order to depoliticize
tariff setting policies; and
(g) use of the Nigam (a technically more competent agency) as a
sub-contractor on a fee-for-service basis should be considered in
instances where technical considerations preclude Jal Sansthans
(or municipal water departments) from being able to operate and
maintain complex plant and infrastructure.
1/ Currently a statewide U.P. Urban and Water Supply Project (FY87) is under
preparation.



-15-
Annex I
Page 1
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT 585-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLYS CAPITAL AND REVENUE EXPENDITURES (Rs IN LAKHS)
TARIFFS OF JALSANTHANS
Kanpur               Varanasr              Lucknow
Cross Rate            Gross Rate            Gross Rate
Approved              Approved              Approved
Existing  by Jal      Existing  by Nigam   kxisting  by Jal
Tariff    Nigam in   Tariff    in July    Tariff    Nigam in
w.e.f.    July 1984  w.e.f.    1984         w.e.f.    Jan. 1984
Particulars          1-11-79   (Revised)  1-10-78   (Revised)  1-7-79    (Revised)
1       2                   3         4           5         6          7           8
1. Water charges for
metered supply
(Per 1,000 liters)
a.  Domestic               0.65                  0.50       0.75      0.50        0.75
b.  Cold storage           2.15                  1.50      2.50       1.50        2.50
c.  Hostels, restaurant   1.65                   1.50      2.50       1.50        2.50
4. Ion-Domestic, build-
ing construction etc. 1.65                   1.50      2.00       1.50        2.00
e.  Municipal purposes    0.10                   0.10      0.75       0.50        0.75
2. Meter rent per month
a.  15 mm                  0.62                  1.50       1.50      1.00        1.50
b.  20 mm                  0.94                  2.00      2.00       2.00        2.00
c.  25 mm                  1.56                  3.00      3.00       3.00        3.00
d. 40 mm                   2.19                  4.00      4.00       4.00        4.00
e.  50 mm                  2.50                  6.00      6.00       5.00        5.00
f.  80 mm                  3.75                  8.00      8.00       8.00        2.00
g. 100 mm                  5.00                 10.00      10.00     10.00       10.00
3. Ferrule rating
charges (Annual)
a.  10 mm                315.00      600.00    90.00    360.00       90.00      360.00
b.  15 mm                380.00      720.00   120.00    480.00    480.00        480.00



-16-
Annex 1
Page 2
1       2                 3         4         5       6        7        8
4. Mininum charges
per month per
connection             8.00       -        7.50   12.00    7.50    12.00
5. Sewer tax              1.501               2.00S            2.001
6. Water tax              6.25%              12.50%            8.00%
Note:  1.  Water tax and sewer tax are calculated on the basis of rental
value of buildings.
2. Rates in Kanpur Jalsansthan are revised and approved by Jal
Nigam for ferrule ratings. Others rates are to be revised.



-17-
Annex 1
Page 3
Carhwal                Kumaon                Jhansi
Gross Rate            Gross Rate            Cross Rate
Approved              Approved              Approved
Existing  by Jal      Existing  bv Nigam   Existing  by Jal
Tariff    Nigam in   Tariff    in April   Tariff    Nigam in
w.e.f.    July 1984  w.e.f.    1984         w.e.f.    July 1984
Particulars          1-4-79    (Revised)  1-4-78    (Revised)  1-4-79    (Revised)
2                  3          4           5         6          7           8
1. Water charges for
metered supply (per
1,000 liters)
A. Lou head
a. Urban areas
i (Where water tax
exist)
Domestic              0.55        0.70      0.60      0.75       0.60        0.75
Non-domestic          1.05        1.50      1.10      1.40       1.10        1.50
ii. (Where no water
tax exist)
Domestic              0.60        0.75      0.60      0.75       0.60        0.75
Non-domestic          1.55        2.25      1.10      1.40       1.10        1.50
b. Rural areas
Domestic              0.60         0.75      0.60      0.75       0.60        0.75
Non-domestic           1.55        2.25      1.10      1.40       1.10        1.50
B. High head
a. Urban areas
i. (Where water tax exist)
Domestic             0.90         1.15      0.90      1.10        -           -
Non-domestic          1.55        2.25      1.55      1.95        -
ii. (Where no water tax exist)
Domestic             0.90         1.25      0.90      1.10        -           -
Non-domestic          1.55        2.65      1.55      1.95        -
b. Rural areas
Domestic               0.90        1.15      0.90      1.10        -           -
Non-domestic           1.55        2.25      1.55      1.95        -           -



-18-
Annex 1
Page 4
1       2                   3         4           5          6          7           8
2. Minimum charges
A. Low head
i.  Domestic              6.00         7.50     6.00       7.50       6.00       10.00
ii. Non-domestic
(Where water tax
exist)                 11.00        15.00    10.00      12.00      10.00       20.00
(Where no water tax
exist)                 20.00        30.00    10,00      12.00      10.00       20.00
B. High head
a.  Domestic              10.00        12.50     6.00       7.50        -           -
b. Non-domestic
i. (Where water tax
exist)               20.00       30.00    15.00       20.00        -
ii. (Where no water
tax exist)            20.00       35.00    15.00       20.00        -
3.1 Unmetered connection
per month (domestic)'
a. Low head
i.  Urban                 6.50         8.00     6.00        -        14.00       20.00
ii.  Rural                 6.50         8.00     6.00        -        10.00       10.00
b. High head
i.  Urban                11.00        14.00     9.00        -          -
ii.  Rural                11.00        14.00     9.00        -
3.2 Unmetered connection
per month
i.  Lowhead              11.00        16.00      -                     -           -
ii.  Highhead             22.00        35.00      -          -          -           -
4.  Meter rent              1.00          -       2.00        -         2.00         -
5.  Sewer tax               3.00%         -       3.00Z       -         3.00Z        -
6.  Water tax              12.50X         -      12.50       -        12.50Z        -
Note:  10% rebate is allowed for timely payments.



-19-
Annex 1
Page 5
TARIPPS OF JALSANTHANS
S1.           Particulars                     Agra                 Allahabad
Gross Rate             Gross Rate
Existing Tariff        Existing Tariff
w.e.f. 1-3-79          w.e.f. 1-8-78
1                 2                           3                       4
1. Water charges for metered
supply (per 1,000 liters)
a. Domestic                                 0.50                    0.50
b. Cold storage                             2.00                    1.50
c. Hostels, restaurants                     1.50                    1.50
d. Non-domestic, building construction    1.50                      1.50
e. Municipal purposes                       0.50                    0.50
2. Meter rent per month
a. 15 mm                                    1.00                    1.00
20 mm                                    2.00                    2.00
25 mm                                    2.00                    3.00
40 mm                                    4.00                    4.00
50 mm                                    6.00                    6.00
80 mm                                    8.00                    8.00
100 mm                                   10.00                   10.00
3. Ferrule rating charges (Annual)
a. 10 mm                                  120.00                   90.00
b. 15 mm                                  150.00                  120.00
4. Minimum charges per month per
connection                               10.00                    7.50
5. Sewer tax                                 2.00%                   2.00%
6. Water tax                                10.00%                  12.00%
Note: Rates of water in avobe Jalsansthans are to be revised and approved
by Jal Nigam.



-20-
UTTAR PRADE8H WAT8R SUPPLY AND SEMWERAE PROJECT
CREDIT 58S-IN
PtOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHYSICAL MORKS COMPLETED THROUGH JUNE 1984
Storage Tanks    Distribution    Transmission    Severs
Name of Jal     Tubewell       in No.           system in        Main in         in
Sanothan        in No.       (KRuo,T            Rm.s.R
1. Kanpur I        20+3                         ,113 m,          6645
25            0+3            117 Ems.        6.523 Ems.
Kanpur II       17              -              96.0 RK.       3.u Xms,
17                           100 Ems.        3.2 Kms.
2. Agra-I          -              9+3           106  s,          2.72  m.
9+3           109 Ems.         9.72 Ems.
Agra-I1         -               -            123.75 Ems.      D.61 ZmL1 37 Km.
125 Ems.        0.61 Ems.    37 Ems.
3. Varanasi-I                     1+6           277t352 RIes.    2.054Ia.          -
7            1+6            77.452 Ems.     2.054 Ems.
Varanasi-II      1             1+3           47.130 Xms,      4.06 %r8.
1            1+3            46.730 Rms.     4.06 Ems.
4. Allahabad-I      3             0+3            61.871 %ms.     0.561 Im.
3            0+3            59.139 Rms.     0.565 Ems.
Allahabad-1I     6             I 2          121.50 Km.        2.8 Km,
6            0+3           115.617 Ems.     2.8 Ems.
5. Lucknow-I       20             0+2           39.00 Ems.      13.25 Rm.
27            0+2            45.61 Ems.     14.25 Ems.
Lucknow-II      -              7+1           76.46 Yms.       3.08 K8
7+1           78.29 Ems.       3.08 Rms.
Total             z7              41            862.063 Ews.    46.4a4 Xm.   37 Km-.
86            42            873.838 Ems.    46.862 Ems.    37 Ems.
Name of Regional          Total No. of Villages             No. of Villazes Covered
Jal Sansthans               as Per Proiect                 Till 12182    Ti1l 3183
1.  Garhval                       432                          406            406
2.  Kamaon                        386                          360            360
3.  Jhansi                        203                          20             203
D021                           Ii6
Note:    Numerators indicate actual quantity of works completed. Denominators
indicate appraisal estimates.
Source:  U.P. Jal Nigam.



nnty a_ mLt Unc
stn ua m  _m                , Caeb
I- Ma~tiMe Alloctio           5200 21S.00 310.00 490.0  434.0  2".0 377.00 176.00 26S.00 2.0.    ".00 430.                   6.00 2" "I.00.  5S.00  S8.00    . 1".00 170.0 IMO   .100  128.0   S.m3.0
2. viamm ,_ t1 00.l
ASOLtsoce                                      -      -               - _  _  _-r _  _.7 _                                               _                                                   2".69
Touetl  s   e sAl lotis  592.00 2S5.00 310.00 410.00 434.00 259.00 377.00 170.   265.00 202.   200.   40.   263.20  3.00 3.0   500   139.00 10.A2 170.00 1O300 120.0   5.77.00
1. bp.aitwe  lood.
civil gi* tdw MM ip.mt
(Mel.02 cetq.4)         402.13  325.32 317.10  648.34  550.28 3".71  373.07  197.74 257.70  195.75  100.91  422.00  297.21  209.f  30.00  110.34  140.53 224.24 130.49 207.30 153.09   6.271.00
2. .t0b{eal Assisanc se
Jot Oathta                2Z.7G 5.01  31.22  67.4&  17.23  36.9 5            2.02  2LM   lij2l  27LE  .MJ2  SLE  JL t  4A           ..0 J_AM    4   21 M 16J0  2 . .3l   1L1  .S2 3..L
Uhbp.ojetb lbas    5     &    37L2 7 348.M 2 7ZS.7  u22*A  4020  421.18  224.32 N2916   2220  I            421.7LE  AI2.A0 24 i20DM  ALI 2S REAM  RILE172DM  311.21  1ILS4  71*1.4
3. EjOta t     tal   bsei_ ,ac.
_         _      _     __                   _             __                                                                              _.                                                    7
e~j s .t. J l *4g



-22-
ATTACHMENT A
Page 1 of 4
COIMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ZCZC KBH00453 JWS0303
EDS12
REF: TCP HC
JWS0303 JQT260 IN 29/09:13 OUT 29/09:36
3166175 PINE IN
FROM SHRI P V BHIDE DEPUTY SECY ECOFAIRS NEW DELHI
TO SHRI CM VASUDEV ADVISER TO ED (INDIA) INTBAFRAD WASHINGTON
- === m - mum
KINDLY PASS ON THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE TO YUKINORI WATANABE OF
OED(.) QUOTE:
PLEASE REFER TO THE DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT IN RESPECT
OF UP WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT-IDA CREDIT NO 585-IN
FORWARDED WITH YOUR LETTER OF MARCH 7, 1986(.) OUR COMMENTS ARE
AS FOLLOWS:-
(1). PARA. 1.09: THERE WERE DIFFICULTIES IN INTRODUCING A
COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM IN THE UP JAL NIGAM ALL OF SUN+
SUDEE+ SUDEN(.) THE TRANSITION FROM A CONVENTIONAL ACCOUNTING
SYSTEM TO A COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM HAD ITS OWN PROBLEMS(.)
LACK OF ADEQUATE TRAINING AND SUITABLE MODIFICATIONS NECESSARY
FOR LOCAL BODIES WERE IMPORTANT WEAKNESSES IDENTIFIED IN
IMPLEMENTATION(.)
(2). PARAS. 2.02 AND 2.06: IT WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA IF THE JAL
SANSTHANS ARE ALSO INVOLVED IN THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS AT
THE PROJECT FORMULATION STAGE ITSELF(.) SUITABLE STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENTS CAN BE MADE BY THE GOVT OF UP TO ENSURE THIS(.)



-23-
ATTACHMEN A
Page 2 of 4
THIS IS AN ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUE WHICH CAN BE TAKEN CARE OF IN
FUTURE PROJECT(.)
(3). PARA. 2.07: THERE IS NO QUESTION OF EITHER LACK OF ALLEGIANCE
OR COMMITMENT ON THE PART OF THE EMPLOYEES(.) IT IS NECESSARY
TO RETAIN A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF CONTROL AT THE GOVT LEVEL IN THE
LARGER INTERESTS OF BOTH THE SECTOR AND THAT OF THE GOVT(.)
(4). PARA. 3.03: PROVISION OF WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IS AN
ACTIVITY WHERE PRICING OF SERVICES PROVIDED CANNOT ALWAYS BE
UNDERTAKEN ON STRICTLY COMMERCIAL TERMS(.) FINANCIAL VIABILITY
WOULD NEED TO BE LOOKED UPON NOT AS AN END IN ITSELF BUT AS AN
OBJECTIVE TO BE ACHIEVED WITHOUT AFFECTING THE SOCIAL OBJECTIVE
OF MEETING THE MINIMUM NEEDS OF THE URBAN POOR(.) THE GOVT OF UP
EXTENDS FULL FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE JAL NIGAk AND JAL SANSTHAN
IN THEIR ENDEAVOR TO ACHIEVE THE ABOVE STATED SOCIAL OBJECTIVES
AND THEREFORE MISGIVINGS ABOUT THE FINANCIAL VIABILITY OF THESE
INSTITUTIONS SHOULD NOT PERSIST(.)
(5). PARA. 3.04: ANY CONSTRUCTION AGENCY WILL NEED TO GENERATE
SOME REVENUES FOR ITS OWN FINANCIAL VIABILITY(.) DELAYS CAN BE
CAUSED BY VARIOUS FACTORS SUCH AS TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES AND LAND
ACQUISITION ISSUES(.) DELAY IN PROJECT DO NOT GIVE THE NIGAM A
HIGHER PERCENTAGE CHARGE(.) IT WOULD IN FACT INCREASE THEIR OVER-
HEADS(.) STEPS TO AVOID CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND AVOID IMPLEMEN-
TATION DELAYS COULD BE BUILT IN INTO FUTURE PROJECTS WHEN
CONSIDERED(.)
(6). PARA. 4.05: THE JAL NIGAM (WHICH WAS EARLIER PHED, A DEPT OF



-24-
ATTACHMENT A
Page 3 of 4
GOVT) HAD UNDERTAKEN AND EXECUTED LARGE SIZED PROJECTS IN THE
PAST(.) WHAT CAUSED THE PROBLEM WAS A SUDDEN CHANGE FROM BEING A
CONVENTIONAL DEPARTMENT TO A COMMERCIAL SETUP WITHOUT ADEQUATELY
PREPARING THE EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS FOR THE CHANGE(.) THIS
BRINGS HOME THE POINT THAT CHANGES IN INSTITUTIONAL SETUP HAVE TO
BE SLOW AND WELL PLANNED(.)
(7). PARA. 7.01(A): THE JAL NIGAM WAS ESTABLISHED AS A PART OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT(.) IT WAS ENVISAGED THAT IT WILL FUNCTION
AS THE PREMIER INSTITUTION IN THE STATE RESPONSIBLE FOR SECTOR
PLANNING AND DESIGN AND EXECUTION OF PROJECTS IN THIS SECTOR(.)
SUFFICIENT IN HOUSE CAPABILITIES WERE BUILT UP BY RECRUITING
PEOPLE TRAINING TECHNICAL PERSONNEL AND BY AFFECTING INSTITUTIONAL
CHANGES TO ACHIEVE THESE OBJECTIVES(.) THERE COULD HAVE BEEN
SHORTFALLS WHICH ARE OFTEN NATURAL IN ORGANIZATION OF THE NIGAM'S
SIZE(.) WHAT IS PRACTICABLE THEREFORE IS TO TAKE A CLOSE LOOK
AT THE NIGAM AND BRING ABOUT CHANGES IN ITS FUNCTIONING TO HELP
FULFILL ITS ROLE PROPERLY(.) TO CHANGE OVER TO PRIVATE CONSULTING
FIRMS WILL HAVE SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES FOR SEVERAL REASONS:
(i) EXPERTISE GAINED BY THE JAL NIGAM WILL GO PARTLY
UNUTILIZED(.)
(ii) THE NATIONAL POLICY OF BUILDING AN INHOUSE CAPABILITY
FOR EXECUTING PROJECTS WILL BE IMPAIRED(.)
(iii) IT MAY NOT ALWAYS BE TRUE THAT PRIVATE CONSULTING
FIRMS WILL BE ABLE TO DELIVER THE GOODS OF THE SAME QUALITY
AT LOWER COSTS(.) THEREFORE IT IS NECESSARY TO RETAIN AN



-25-
ATTACHMENT A
Page 4 of 4
UMBRELLA AGENCY LIKE THE JAL NIGAM WITH WHATEVER MODIFI-
CATIONS THAT MAY BE NECESSARY TO PERFORM ITS PRESENT ROLE
(8). PARA. 7.01:(B) IN ALL WORLD BANK PROJECTS THE GOVT OF
INDIA IS THE BORROWER(.) THEREFORE JAL SANSTHANS CANNOT BE
DIRECT BORROWERS(.) AWARENESS AND OWNERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY OVER
THE INVESTMENTS CAN BE BUILT UP WITHOUT THE NECESSITY OF BUILDING
UP DIRECT BORROWER RELATIONSHIP(.)
(iii). PARA. 7.01(C): IN VIEW OF THE COMMENTS EXPRESSED IN
PARA. 7.01(A) ABOVE THIS DOES NOT ARISi(.)
(9) PARA. 7.01(F). THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE SINCE INDIA HAS STRONG
DEMOCRATIC TRADITIONS AND THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS HAS
NECESSARILY TO VEST WITH ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES(.)
PARA: IT IS REQUESTED THAT THE DRAFT PCR MAY BE SUITABLY
MODIFIED IN THE LIGHT OF FOREGOING COMMENTS(.) REGARDS(.)
UNQUOTE(.)
MESSAGE NO 2960       DATED 29/5/1986      KEWAL
KKK
=05291126
NNNN
WORLD BANK MS SYSTEM
xiz
DISCONNECTED



