FILECOPY                                         GRCUULATNG COPY
AI BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-=82-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
August 6, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibilty for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



(For Inside Cover)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at June 30, 1975)
US$1.00                 *     Rs. 8.35
Rs. 1.00                -     US$0.120
Rs. 1 million                 US$119,760
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. As the Pound is now
floating relative to the US Dollar, the US
Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the appraisal report
were made at US$1 to Rs. 8.00, which is close
to the short-term average exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF IHE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE UTTAR PRADESH
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) for the equivalent of
US$40 million on standard IDA terms. The credit would support the program
of the Government of the State of Uttar Pradesh (GUP) to reorganize the
water supply and sewerage sector in the State, to construct piped water
supply schemes in selected rural areas suffering from hardship due to
inadequate water supply, and to improve the quality of water supply and
sewerage systems in the five largest cities of the State. The proceeds
of the credit would be made available by the G0I to the GUP as part of
its normal plan allocation of funds to States for the development of
water supplies and sewerage; currently, 30% of these funds are made
available as grants and 70% as loans for 18 years, including 3 years'
grace, at its prevailing standard interest rate for development projects.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(691a-IN dated May 1, 1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the difficulty of its economic conditions. While
India's economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, the sheer
magnitude of the task facing the Government must be recognized. Governing
a country divided into more than 20 States with a population of some 600
million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility. The
country's poverty, and inadequate domestic savings together with a net
transfer of external resources averaging in recent years only about US$1 per
head per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account
must be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability
of water. A bad monsoon, which is inevitable from time to time, has a per-
vasive influence over the entire economy and wipes out the results of years
of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income has averaged a modest
4% during the past 25 years, but only about 1% during the last four years
(1971/72-1974/75), which have included two consecutive monsoon failures --
i.e., an actual decline in per capita terms.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others and has all too often fallen short of India's
massive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
1/   Parts I and II in this report are identical to the corresponding parts
in the President's Report on the proposed Thirteenth Railway Project.



-2-
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the coumtry, growth and
structural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments
in many other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been
stagnation and possibly even decline. Despite these improvements and al-
though the distribution of income in India is relatively even by comparison
with most developing countries, there has been little impact upon the living
standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Govern-
ment has become increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in
recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.  Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production.
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
6.        Despite the slow pace of change and despite the undeniable magnitude
of the problems confronting her, India has the potential in a number of
important fields to mount a development effort which has a reasonable chance
of success in the longer run. In agriculture, as discussed in the economic
report of May 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial promise for
improving the food situation over the next decade are:
(a) Rejuvenation of the green revolution in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest
and to a lesser extent in Bihar and West Bengal,
but which has been losing momentum since about 1970.
This is the result of deficiencies which can be corrected
-- most importantly seed deterioration and lagging irrigation
development.
(b) Better use of the vast potentials that have been created
by surface irrigation through more expeditious project
completion and complementary land and on-farm improve-
nents to ensure better management and higher productivity of
water.
(c) Acceleration of groundwater development, especially in the
Eastern regions, whlich are figuratively described as
"'flating on water,' where the untapped potential is large



- 3 -
and where consequently there are large opportunities for
multiple cropping, better water management and greater
crop security.
(d) Prouiotion of increased production of monsoon rice, based
on improved varieties which as yet have had only modest
success but which are expected, on the basis of current
research, to open the way to much greater productivity
over India's vast rain-fed rice producing areas during
the next few years.
(e) Pursuit of the promising, althoughi somewhat less
definite, potential for greater productivity in dryland
cultivation and for extensive introduction of higher
yielding varieties of coarse grains.
Because of the difficulties likely to be encountered in the effective devel-
opxaent of these potentials, their realization is likely to follow uneven time
patterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the case
of the green revolution. And, along with administrative concentration and
effectiveness, they will all require provision of the supplies and services,
especially fertilizer and power for irrigation, which are essential
complements of the necessary technical and environmental changes.
7.        Greater agricultural success would also make an important contribu-
tion to India's perenially difficult balance of payments situation, which is
frequently aggravated by the need for large food imports, From the balance
of payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient for a resumption of
modest growth is sustained export volume growth at considerably higher rates
than have been achieved historically. In view of the composition of Indian
exports, the momentum for such growth would have to be provided primarily
by the rapid expansion of industrial exports which, in addition to easing
the foreign exchange constraint, would act as an important stimulant to
industrial growth -- notably absent since the mid-sixties. In the field
of energy, too, there is considerable potential in the development of recent-
ly discovered oil resources and in the continued expansion of coal production.
8.        It is hard, however, to conceive of the timnely and effective
exploitation of these various potentials unless adnministrative capabilities,
which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control most
economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for
industrial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expeditious
incentives, sufficiently attractive and reliable to induce domestic producers
to venture into the competitive pressures of world markets. Finally,
realization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require a considerable
infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments constraints and
to supplement the limited domestic resources available for development.



- 4-
9.        While there is thus potential for resuming the interrupted process
of growth, there remains the formidable obstacle of the current difficulties
facing India.  The short-term problem is much the same as it appeared last
year, with the important exception that the efforts made to adjust to changed
circumstances and the responsiveness of aid givers to India's needs shiould
mitigate the hardships that lie ahead.  Last year began with deficient winter
rains and a poor spring harvest, with one of the worst Government wheat
procurement experiences on record, with a prospective balance of payments
deficit of US$2.5 billion or twice as much as in the preceding year, with
inflation running at an annual rate of 30% and a fiscal situation seemingly
out of hand, and with serious energy and material shortages and little
prospect for alleviating them through imports within the severe constraints
of the balance of payments. It was hardly surprising in this situation that
adjustment to immediate difficulties was the prime economic preoccupation.
Growth had necessarily to take a second place to short-run exigencies in
the emphasis of economic policy in this first year of the Fifth Five-Year
Plan period.
10.       Monetary expansion, which had been running at a rate of 15% in
1973/74, was reduced through tight credit restrictions. The burden of these
restrictions was borne largely by private and Government commercial activities,
without a significant reduction in the rate of increase in net bank financing
of the Government Budget. To this curtailment of credit to the commercial
sector, there was added the deflationary influence arising from the net use
of reserves and as a result the rate of monetary expansion in 1974/75 was
reduced to about 6%, or less than half that of the previous year. This, in
combination with some improvements in physical supply, relieved the upward
pressure on prices, and there was even a small price reduction in the second
half of the fiscal year. With continuing tiglht monetary policies, prospects
are for greater price stability this year than last.
11.       The food problem was probably the single most threatening element
on the economic scene last year. A poor harvest and low procurement in the
spring was only the start of agricultural adversities. Next was failure
of the mid-year monsoon in many key agricultural areas and a monsoon (kharif)
crop which fell below that of 1973 by about 5 million tons. T1he result was
a severe shortage of domestic foodgrains for the public distribuition system,
with availabilities only about half of an austere level of requirements. A
real food crisis was avoided, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons
of foodgrains during the year ending in March 1975; this was almost twice as
much as the imports of 1973/74.  With these imports and with relative empha-
sis on food distribution in the cities rather than the countryside, whiere
supply'conditions were presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threat-
ening food situation was weathered, although not without hunger and priva-
tion for a great many of the rural poor who were uwable to afford much of
what food was available.



-5-
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for a
reduced import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution. Motor
spirits were heavily taxed to reduce-consumption by about 20%; factories
and power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible
and supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production,
after years of stagnation, was increased by about 13%, and, after a poor
start, transport managed to keep up with the additional coal in spite of
serious labor troubles on the railways. There was also some improvement in
the operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise
the low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by a more systematic allo-
cation of available power, with special priority for requirements of agri-
cultural irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortage has remained,
nevertheless, a severe constraint on the economies of many regions. Among
other critical shortages, the supply situation eased in the course of the
year, especially for fertilizer, steel and non-ferrous metals. The fertilizer
situation was brought into better balance by a combination of substantial
imLports and some lag in demand attributable largely to poor weather and
sharply increased prices. Steel and other metal supplies also improved
during the year, with some increase in domestic production in the case of
steel and also because of price resistance and uncertainty in a sluggish
industrial situation.
13.       Last year's balance of payments turned out to be manageable in
spite of a 45% jump in the import bill. Economies in import volume helped.
More importantly, there was also an increase of 22% in the value of exports.
The main payments support, however, was an increase of about US$1 billion
in external financing, made up of large drawings on the International Mone-
tary Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid from the India
Consortium including the World Bank Group, oil purchases on credit, a mil-
lion tons of wheat on loan from the USSR, and additional food aid from
several other countries. With all this, in 1974/75, India had to draw on its
gross reserves (US$1,416 million of March 31, 1974) by only about US$50 mil-
lion, but external debt service requirements in the medium term were
increased, as were obligations to the IMF.
14.       This year (1975/76), the economic situation has started more favor-
ably than last year, with the expectation of a better harvest and larger
procurement from the spring (rabi) crop, with easier conditions in other
material supplies, and with much less inflation. However, the payments
situation is no less critical.
15.   I  The 1975/76 trade deficit is projected at about US$2,025 million.
This compares with about US$1,815 million last year, but with hardly any trade
deficit at all in 1972/73, which was before India's terms of trade worsened
sharply as prices of imported oil, grain, fertilizer and other essential
goods went up. Adding to the 1975/76 trade deficit another US$800 million
of payments on external obligations, and taking account also of probable net
invisible receipts, this year's overall balance of payments deficit seems
likely to come to about US$2,635 million, or about US$160 million more than
last year. These enormous deficits persist in any reasonable calculation of



- 6 -
minimum itmport requirements of fuel, food, fertilizer and other essentials,
for which further compression seems hardly feasible, even at the low level
at wlhich the economy is functioning.
16.       Fortunately, nearly half of this year's prospective deficit (about
US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of previously
committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars of Consortium
aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World Bank Group sources.
Eastern Europe is expected to provide perhaps US$100 million, which is down
considerably from last year in the absence of further food assistance from
the USSR. All this leaves a balance of US$1,500 million to be financed from
disbursements out of new aid commitments in the current year and to some
extent by an inevitable drawdown of foreign exchange reserves which stood at
US$1,365 million at March 31, 1975.
17.       To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term payments
outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections, for the
10 years following 1975/76, illustrating India's debt management problem.
Broadly speaking, the conclusion which emerges is that a modest increase in
India's import capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after allowing for
inflation - could be achieved, provided: (i) new aid commitments in real
terms (including IMF facilities and the aid provided by oil producers) remain
approximately at 1974/75 levels, (ii) India's exports attain an average
volume growth of about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86, and (iii) the bulk
of new aid continues to be provided on concessional terms. Given the above
assumptions, the debt service ratio (expressed as a percentage of export
earnings) would rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to 23% in 1979/80 and then
decline slowly. India's external public debt outstanding and disbursed on
March 31, 1974 stood at US$10.2 billion.
18.       A considerably improved export performance, which will require
policy measures to improve incentives, is crucial to a successful development
effort. To the degree that exports fall short of the 8% growth target,
India's creditworthiness will be reduced, and she will face greater dif-
ficulty in borrowing to meet a larger balance of payments deficit; the re-
sult would be slower growth throughout the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 73 development
credits to India totalling US$1,437 million and US$3,428 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$692 million has been
repaid, and US$1,538 million was still undisbursed as of 1975. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1975, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$51.8
million, of which US$8.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and



US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.5 million, US$22.4 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1975 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-iarm investments through agricultural credit
operations.  Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban
investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector has been further enhanced
by the present world commodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs such as
credit for on-farm investments, command area development of existing irriga-
tion schemes, and seed production fonr an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next years. Special emphasis will be given to projects bene-
fitting small farmers. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial
investments will focus on energy-related projects. Repeater credits for
power and railways have high priority in this context, and discussions are
under way with the Government in an effort to identify and prepare projects
specifically designed to facilitate coal transport. Lending for fertilizer
projects, which has been an important feature in recent years, is expected
to continue to occupy a prominent place in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.



-8-
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1974, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 23%, by 1979 it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1974/75 about 14% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
IN UTTAR PRADESH
25.       Responsibility for the development of the water supply and sewer-
age sector is divided among the Government of India and the States, which
delegate powers and functions to local government authorities. GOI pre-
pares the national investment plan for water supply, sewerage and pollution
control. Investment resources are provided as part of the grant and loan
assistance by the Center to the States for the implementation of Five-Year
Plans. The State Governments are responsible for the planning and funding
of individual water supply and sewerage schemes. They usually rely on their
own departments for detailed design and construction of projects. The oper-
ation and maintenance are functions of local authorities, but State Govern-
ments are increasingly having to assume these functions because of local
authorities' inability to carry them out.
26.       The sector has not generated any significant resources for reinl-
vestment in new schemes for many years. Available resources are unable to
provide for annual population increases, and the sector is faced with an
ever-increasing backlog of work -- with obvious implications for the
incidence of water-borne diseases and the productivity of the affected
population.
27.       Uttar Pradesh (UP) faces most of the typical problems of the water
supply sector in India. Only about 30% of the UP population of about 95
million have access to safe water supplies. Of the 293 towns with water
supplies serving almost 13 million people, 112 have no safe systems and 86
require major improvements to continue safeguarding supplies. As for rural
water supply, only about 3 million people in 5,000 villages have piped systems,
and the responsible local bodies have been unable to properly operate and
maintain these systems for want of trained staff and funds.
28.       Since 1949, the main GUP agency responsible for the sector has
been the Local Self-Government Engineering Department (LSGED). Originally
a quality control agency, it became increasingly concerned with planning,
design and construction of water supply and sewerage schemes, and with
assisting the more than 500 local bodies responsible for the development and



-9-
operation of such schemes, many of which had inadequate technical expertise.
GUP loans and grants for capital expenditures by local bodies were channelled
through LSGED, which executed the work on behalf of local bodies. In some
instances, LSGED retained control over newly built systems when the local
bodies could not operate or finance them, and LSGED developed, with some
success, tariffs and charges to cover the cost of operating and maintaining
these systems.
29.       In 1973, GUP realized that a more expeditious and extensive pro-
vision of water and sewerage facilities would require considerable reorgani-
zation of the sector including, as a long-term objective, the need to make
it self-supporting. The GUP has a sector development program for the next
15 years which aims at:
(i) completing a major reorganization of the sector
institutions;
(ii) introducing fiscal discipline into the sector,
particularly in urban water undertakings; and
(iii) providing adequate water supplies to an additional
25 million people in about 200 towns and about
30,000 villages in scarcity and hardship areas,
and construction of a few urban sewerage systems.
To achieve these objectives, GUP has issued an ordinance which provides for
the development, maintenance and regulation of the sector, including the
establishment of a UP State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corpora-
tion (the Nigam) and local water authorities (Jal Sansthans). Under this
two-tier arrangement, the Nigam will be the principal sector organization
at the State Government level, and the Jal Sansthans will be the regional
or local level entities. Enactment of the provisions of this ordinance into
law by the UP Legislative Assembly would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(d) of Development Credit Agreement).
The Nigam (UP State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
30.       The Nigam has been established under the ordinance as a public
sector corporation, controlled by a Board with the Secretary of the UP
Local Self Government Department as the Chairman of the Board. The Nigam
is headed by a MIanaging Director, who will be assisted by a Finance Director.
Its initial staff, organization and facilities are based on the LSGED, but
these tare being expanded to include financial and administrative staff,
which will result in a total establishment of about 6,000. The Nigam has
agreed that the Association will be given an opportunity to review and com-
ment on the qualifications and experience to be required for the posts of
Managing Director and Finance Director, to inform IDA subsequently of any
changes thereto, and to inform IDA prior to the appointment of persons to
these posts (Section 3.01(b) of Project Agreement). Other assurances
regarding the staffing of the Nigam are described in paragraph 45 below.



- 10 -
31.       The Nigam's functions include promoting and ensuring the effi-
cient provision of water supply and sewerage in UP and, in particular, ad-
vising the GUP on sector policy, and monitoring and advising Jal Sansthans
and all local bodies having water supply and/cr sewerage systems. Until
Jal Sansthans have developed their own design and construction divisions,
the Nigam will continue the LSGED role of planning, designing and construct-
ing all water supply and sewerage schemes in UP. Ten to twelve Jal Sansthans
are likely to be established in a phased program over 10-15 years; until the-
are capable of carrying out their powers and duties, the Nigam will assist
in their formation and execute some functions on their behalf. When Jal
Sansthans can perform efficiently, the Nigam will revert to its primary role
as the sector's monitoring, financing, and regulatory agency. The Nigam is
also empowered to take over and operate local systems, if Jal Sansthans or
local bodies should fail to perform their duties.
32.       An important feature of the Nigam is its role as the sector finan-
cing agency. It will receive all funds from all sources external to the
sector, including loans, grants, and GUP subventions. 1/ Jal Sansthans
will not be able to obtain funds, other than of their own generation,
from any source other than the Nigam.
33.       Thle Nigam's financing activities will be carried out through a
Sector Loans Fund, an Operations Account, and a Sector Development Account.
The two principal objectives of the Loans Fund - which will record all the
Nigam's capital borrowing, on-lending, and repayment transactions - are
(i) to borrow from governmental and institutional lenders for sector devel-
opment; and (ii) to provide loans to water authorities at rates of interest
commensurate with their financial and economic conditions. The Nigam will
achieve these objectives by using grants and low-interest loans from the
GUP, and by charging higher rates of interest to those authorities which
can afford to pay. During the four-year period ending March 1979 the
Nigam will receive about US$82.4 million equivalent in loans and US$22.5
million equivalent in grants to finance loans to Jal Sansthans and local
bodies. The Nigam will also maintain the Operations Account in which
will be recorded all of its personnel and operating expenditures on (i)
planning, design, appraisal and construction supervision of projects,
(ii) operation and maintenance of water supply systems temporarily taken
over from authorities which have failed to meet their operational and/or
financial obligations, and (iii) provision of advisory services, e.g.
tariff studies or training, to sector authorities. To the extent pos-
sible, these costs will be recovered from the benefiting authorities.
1/   A subvention is a Ways and Means Advance, which is made to support a
local body having cash flow problems. Officially, subventions are
repayable, but have become a support subsidy for local bodies in UP
in recent years and are rarely repaid.



-. 11 -
Any residual costs will be met from a Sector Development Account. The
forecast cost of the Nigam's operations for the four years through March
1979 is US$28 million equivalent, of which the water authorities and local
bodies are forecast to bear about US$19 million equivalent and GUP about
US$6.6 million equivalent through the Sector Development Account. This
latter Account will show the financing of the sector by GUP and all
transfers between Jal Sansthans. Prior to credit effectiveness, the
Nigam will receive working capital of about US$2 million equivalent
from GUP (Section 5.01(e) of Development Credit Agreement).
The Jal Sansthans (Water Authorities)
34.       There will be two types of Jal Sansthans during the early years
of sector development: (i) urban Jal Sansthans, which will provide water
supply and sewerage services for large towns, and (ii) regional Jal
Sansthans, which will provide these services in large areas comprising
many smaller towns and the rural areas of a region. All water supply and
sewerage services in a given area would be under the jurisdiction of a
Jal Sansthan. Any local body can ask the GUP to create a Jal Sansthan
and bring its water and sewerage systems within the new law.
35.       Jal Sansthans will operate as public utilities, and will have a
Board of Management with a GUP-appointed Chairman, a General Manager, repre-
sentatives of GUP and the Nigam, and three local representatives. Their
statutory functions include promoting and operating efficient systems of
water supply, sewerage and drainage. Jal Sansthans will have a typical pub-
lic utility-type organization with engineering, finance, and consumer service
divisions, with staff drawn fro.n existing local bodies and from the Nigam.
In large towns, the Municipal Corporations will serve as the Boards of Jal
Sansthans; their staffs, based on the existing Water Supply and Sewerage
Departments, will be headed by General Managers. Every Jal Sansthan-is re-
quired to operate a Water Supply and Sewerage Fund, to which all revenues
must be paid, and from which only expenditures on these services can be met;
this will preclude the use of these revenues for other municipal services.
After review and comment by the Association, Accounts Regulations prescrib-
ing commercial-type accruals accounting will be introduced within three
months after formation of a Jal Sansthan (Section 2.03 of U.P. Agreement).
36.       A Jal Sansthan is required to regulate its rates of taxes and
charges so as to enable it to meet the cost of operations, maintenance, and
debt service, and achieve a rate of return on its fixed assets. The first
tbree regional Jal Sansthans (Kumaon, Garhwal and Bundelkhand) will not
be financially viable for some years because they are taking over ill-run
urban and rural systems, including many where no attempt has been made in
the past to recover service costs from consumers. As an example, forecasts
indicate that Bundelkhand Jal Sansthan may need subsidies totalling US$2.0
million equivalent through 1978/79.
37.       Outside the areas covered by Jal Sansthans, existing local bodies
will continue for some years to be responsible for their water and sewerage



- 12 -
systems, with the Nigam acting as the Government's supervisory and regula-
tory agency.  When the Nigam lends to other local bodies, it will obtain re-
forms similar to those proposed for the Jal Sansthans when executing agree-
ments to finance and construct schemes.
PART IV - TIE PROJECT
38.       In 1972, the GOI requested IDA to assist the GUP in financing
extensions and improvements to the KAVAL towns' 1/ water supply and sewerage
systems. At IDA's suggestion, a IHO mission, under the IBRD/WHO Cooperative
Program, surveyed the sector in 1973. Their report highlighted the need
for institutional improvements, and for provision of rural water supplies
in hardship and scarcity areas. Following an IDA preappraisal mission in
April 1974, the GOI, GUP and IDA agreed that the project should be defined
accordingly. The project was appraised in September/October 1974.
39.       A credit and project summary is given in Annex III.  A report
entitled Appraisal of the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Report No. 742a) dated July 29, 1975, is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in July
1975. The Government of India was represented by Mr. A. Pande of the
Ministry of Finance and Mr. B. B. Rau of the Ministry of Works and Housing;
the Government of Uttar Pradesh by Mr. S.V.S. Joneja, Commissioner and
Secretary, Finance and Mr. A. Hussain, Coiamissioner and Secretary of the
Local Self-Government Department; the Jal Nigam by its Managing Director
Mr. A. C. Chaturvedi; and the Life Insurance Corporation of India by its
Secretary of Investment, Mr. C. R. Thakore.
Project Description
40.       The project would promote implementation of the first phase
(1975/76-1980/81) reorganization of the sector by supporting the establish-
ment of the Nigam and eight Jal Sansthans. Three of these would be region-
al Jal Sansthans having a total population of about 7.6 million, and an urban
Jal Sansthan would be established in each of the five KAVAL towns. In ad-
dition, the proposed project would provide facilities to improve service to
about five million people in the expanding KAVAL towns and to about 1.2 mil-
lion villagers in 2,000 villages in the regional Jal Sansthans. The GUP
has notified in their official Gazette that two regional Jal Sansthans (Garhwal
and Kumaon) are to be established on October 2, 1975, and the establishment
of the third one (Bundelkhand) would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 5.01(f) of Development Credit Agreement).
1/   The five major cities of UP -- Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad and
Lucknow.



- 13 -
41.       Rural schemes would consist of piped water supply systems using
surface water sources, springs or groundwater, with water treatment plants
where necessary. An average provision will be about one standpipe per 200
persons in each village.  House connections would be available to consumers
who are prepared to pay at rates to be determined in tariff studies (see
para. 52). The population in the rural areas of the first three regional
Jal Sansthans suffer water-borne diseases well above the UP average and
endure the greatest water supply scarcities or hardships in the State. To
assist in determining the priorities to be given to future investments, the
health of rural people before and after introduction of piped water supplies
will be studied by the Nigam, which will cooperate with the GUP Director of
Medical Services in a rural health survey program for selected subprojects.
42.       The proposed works in the KAVAL towns would include further
development of existing surface and groundwater sources, extension of trans-
mission, water distribution and storage systems, and programs of leakage
detection and waste prevention. These facilities should be adequate to
meet daily requirements for water supply in the five cities through 1981;
but longer-term improvements, particularly to water treatment, would be
planned as part of the project and the Nigam has agreed to employ consult-
ants to assist in this part of the work (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
The sewerage component is designed to rehabilitate existing systems in these
cities and to extend collection systems in areas of greatest need in the
cities.
Project Implementation
43.       The project would be divided into about 300 sub-projects.  The
Nigam would be responsible for the planning, design, financing and construction
supervision of these sub-projects. The Association is satisfied that the
Nigam has adequate technical staff to perform these functions. About fourteen
technical reports covering all the sub-projects would be prepared by the
Nigam. These reports would be sent to IDA for review prior to implementation.
The design criteria which are used by the Nigam are satisfactory, and the
arrangements for review of the Nigam's technical reports and for sub-project
supervision would ensure that technically sound, least-cost sub-projects
would be financed from the credit.
44.       Disbursement of funds for any sub-project would depend on: (i)
establishment by GUP of a Jal Sansthan with jurisdiction over the area in
which the sub-project is located (Section 2.02(b)(i) of Development Credit
Agreement); (ii) the Jal Sansthan's entering into agreements with the Nigam
in a form acceptable to IDA, before construction of sub-projects begins, to
take over the completed schemes and accept responsibility for the repayment
of loans made by the Nigam to cover the cost of the scheme; and (iii) IDA's
approval of the technical report related to the actual sub-project (Section
2.02(b)(ii) of Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The Nigam and Jal Sansthans would hire qualified staff in suf-
ficient numbers to carry out the proposed investment program, including



- 14 -
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and operation and maintenance of
their water supply and sewerage systems (Section 2.04 of Project Agreement).
Consultants will be engaged by January 1, 1976, to advise on organization
and management, staff hiring schedules, and training programs (Section
2.02 of Project Agreement). Should CUP require any of the new authorities
to employ staff in excess of the agreed schedules, GUP would finance their
employment (Section 2.05 of U.P. Agreement). Training programs would be
implemented by the Nigam on the basis of plans prepared by consultants and
agreed with IDA (Section 2.04(b) of Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
46.       Annual investments by the GUP in the water supply and sewerage
sector have increased from US$1.6 million equivalent in 1951 to US$11.2
million equivalent in 1973/74. The total cost of the 15-year sector
development program (1975-1989) at 1975 prices is about US$1.3 billion
equivalent, of which about US$115 million equivalent is allocated in the
Draft Fifth Plan (1974/75-1978/79). This compares with capital expendi-
tures of about US$34 million equivalent during the Fourth Plan period and
clearly implies the need for accelerated resource mobilization of large
proportions in the 1980s.
47.       The proposed program of works, with consulting services and
training, the size of which was determined by the amount of money likely
to be allocated by GOI and GUP, is estimated to cost US$71.9 million equiv-
alent, including US$11 million in foreign exchange.  The principal cost
components are: rural water supply schemes (US$28.0 million); KAVAL towns
water supply, (US$32.7 million); KAVAL towns sewerage works (US$8.2 million);
and specialized equipment, consulting services and training (US$3.0 million).
Interest during construction (US$3.1 million), which will be financed by
GUP, completes the total financing requirement of US$75 million. About 40%
of the cost estimate has been based on final designs and 60% on preliminary
designs. It includes physical contingencies averaging 15% (US$7.3 million)
on base prices, and price contingencies averaging 25% (US$13.7 million) on
1975 base prices including physical contingencies. If these contingencies
should prove inadequate or excessive, the basic package will be adjusted
by exclusion or inclusion of sub-projects for completion of the US$71.9 mil-
lion program. Engineering and administrative costs have been included
at the 16% chargirig rate used by LSGED, but these overhead costs, which seem
to be high, will be reviewed and adjusted as the Nigam develops accounting
and costing systems in consultation with IDA (Section 4.02 of Project Agree-
ment).
48.       US$22.5 million equivalent, representing 30% of the total financing
required, or 35%O of local costs, would be financed by the Life Insurance Cor-
poratrion (LIC), which is actively involved in lending for water supply schemes
In India and is interested in supporting the sector reorganization now under
wa- in UP.  Tne GLTP would finance US$12.5 million equivalent, representing
19% of local costs, and thie proposed Credit would provide the remainder of
US$40 million equivalent. The Credit would cover the estimated foreign



- 15 -
exchange component (US$11 million equivalent) and about US$29 million equiv-
alent of local costs, or about 53% of total financing requirements. Resources,
including the proceeds of the proposed credit, would be made available by
the GOI to the CUP as part of the GOI resource allocation of the Fifth Five
Year Plan. GIJP would make available to the Nigam loans and grants in the
loan:grant ratio of 4:3 as capital expenditures are incurred by the Nigam.
The loans will total US$30 million equivalent for not less than 18 years
including 3 years of grace, at an interest rate not exceeding that charged
by the GOI at its prevailing standard rate for development projects; the
grants will total US$22.5 million equivalent. (Section 2.02 of U.P. Agree-
ment.)
49.       To ensure that the more affluent authorities are charged interest
at rates commensurate with their abilities to pay, and poor Jal Sansthans
are given advantage of grants and CUP's low on-lending rates, the Nigam's
initial on-lending rates will be (i) in the range of 8% to 11% for the IKAVAL
towns, (ii) not less than 3% for regional Jal Sansthans, and (iii) in the
range of 7% to 9% for other local bodies, with such loans available for
periods not exceeding 25 years (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
50.       Tariff structures will be designed to enable each Jal Sansthan
to attain financial independence from Nigam subsidies. It has been agreed
that each regional Jal Sansthan will levy charges to meet its costs of
operation, maintenance and debt service from 1982/83 (1977/78 in respect
of those assets taken over by Jal Sansthans in the current financial year)
(Section 4.04 of Project Agreement). The KAVAL towns are among the most
affluent centers in UP and their consumers should be required to meet the
full costs of water supply and sewerage services. However, many tariffs
are now so low that several years will elapse before the satisfactory level
of taxes and charges can be achieved by the responsible authorities. To
encourage the establishment of taxes and charges which will meet the -full
costs of these services and commence generation of surpluses for investment,
GUP have agreed that the KAVAL town Jal Sansthans will achieve the following
rates of return on net fixed assets in operation: (i) 2% by 1977/78; (ii)
4% by 1979/80; and (iii) 6% by 1982/83 (Section 4.05 of Project Agreement).
The Water Supply and Sewerage Funds of each KAVAL town will be established
with adequate working capital, including cash, to finance its initial opera-
tions and to meet any cash deficits as of the date of its separation from
other municipal functions (Section 2.07 of U.P. Agreement).
51.       About 70% of the revenues of KAVAL towns water supply and
sewerage services are derived from a water tax, which is based on an
annual valuation of property. Property values have been kept artificially
low since 1945 and there has been a statutory ceiling on municipal taxes,
with the result that tax yields have been too low to support the services.
In addition, where water charges are levied, the meters are often faulty
or in disrepair and accurate charging is impossible. Billing and collec-
tion systems are not well managed, and collectibles at end-March 1974
totalled US$2.1 million equivalent, compared to 1973/74 total revenues
of US$4 million equivalent. During the past year, the municipal authori-
ties have made considerable efforts to reduce the amounts,outstanding, and



- 16 -
the Nigam has agreed to use its best efforts to require Jal Sansthans to
reduce their receivables by March 31, 1977, to amounts not exceeding two
months' billings (Section 4.06 of Project Agreement). The U.P. Ordinance
provides for water and sewerage taxes at new higher levels, which should
permit the generation of additional revenues for the Jal Sansthans. CUP
intends to introduce a Bill into the Legislative Assembly to transfer
responsibility for property valuation from municipal authorities to a
central authority, to achieve uniformity and realism in valuations, and
has given assurances to use its best endeavors to achieve this objective
(Section 2.04 of U.P. Agreement).
52.       By January 1, 1976, the Nigam will employ suitably qualified and
experienced consultants to assist its staff and the Jal Sansthans (Section 2.02
of Project Agreement).  The services-would include a review of the financial
and resource generation capacity of Jal Sansthans, on which tariffs, revenue
collection systems, and on-lending rates and terms for the Nigam's loans
could be established. It is known that many of the waterworks being taken
over by the Jal Sansthans will be in poor condition and consultants will also
help the Nigam's staff to prepare expeditiously schedules of the condition and
valuations of all assets as of the dates of takeover by Jal Sansthans. The
Association will be given an opportunity to review and comment on the
findings of these consultants.
53.       The Nigam's report on eaclh sub-project will be accompanied by a
statement by the Jal Sansthan concerned indicating the taxes and charges
which it proposes to levy and collect from the beneficiaries (Section 2.08
(ii) of Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
54.       Contracts for about US$16 million equivalent of equipment and
materials will be awarded on the basis of inLternational competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines.  Indian suippliers competlng under inter-
national competitive bidding would be granted a preference Iargin of 15% or
the current rate of import duty, whichever is less. After grouping of civil
works, there will be about 300 contracts totaling about US$25 mill7ion equiv-
alent. This large number is because of the widely dispersed sites in the
three regional Jal Sansthans, whose combined areas total about 80,000 km25
and letting of contracts over three construction seasons. It is not
practical to group the civil works contracts in the five KAVAI towns' sub-
projects. The largest of these contracts is unlikely to exceed US$3 million
equivalent and would not interest foreign contractors. Civil works may
include works by force account labor, but the Nigam will not employ force
account for the civil works component exceeding US$125,000 equivalent of
any sub-project, without Jbtaining prior agreement of IDA (paragraph C.1 of
Schedule 1 of Project Agreement). Contracts totaling US$18 million equiva-
lent for equipment and materials would be either of small sizes and tin-
attractive to foreign suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitive



- 17 -
bidding by reasons of high transportation costs, or high dam,age risk, e.g.,
asbestos cement pipes. These equipment and material contracts, with the civil
works contracts, would be awarded on the basis of GUP procedures for local
competitive bidding which are acceptable to IDA.
55.       Subject to IDA approval of sub-projects (para 43), the proposed
credit would be disbursed against: (i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
equipment and materials, and 100% of the foreign expenditures for consulting
services and training based outside India; and (ii) 60% of the cost of civil
works, and ex-factory costs of all other equipment and materials, consulting
services and training. The Nigam will be authorized to seek disbursements
of up to US$2 million equivalent against approved expenditures on imported
equipment and materials prior to June 30, 1976, even though at the time of
disbursement IDA may not yet have approved sufficient sub-projects requiring
the procured goods. This measure will allow the Nigam to achieve economies
by bulk purchasing for an expeditious start of the 1975/76 construction
program. Arrangements satisfactory to the Association will be made to ensure
correct allocation and use of these materials on approved sub-projects
(Sections 2.02(c) and (d) of Development Credit Agreement). The LIC loan
will be disbursed against IDA-approved expenditures on locally procured
equipment, materials, civil works and consulting services. However, to
assist the Nigam to finance its initial operations, the LIC will make an
advance of 10% of its loan - US$2.25 million equivalent - when the first
sub-project has been approved by IDA. The LIC loan will be at 7-3/4% - or
the actual rate prevailing at the time of LIC disbursements - for 25 years
with three years' grace (Schedule 2 of Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project is not subject to conventional financial or
economic analysis, since the information on which such analysis could be
based has not been generated in the sector in the past, and the sub-projects'
financial rates of return will not be available until presented in the
Nigam's technical reports to the Association. However, the design and
investment criteria, which will be used by the Nigam for evaluation of these
sub-projects, are acceptable to the Association.
57.       Only about a third of UP's present population -- which, at 95
million, is larger than that of any of the Bank's borrowers except Brazil,
Indonesia, and India itself -- has access to safe water supplies. The present
rate of investment in the sector is not even sufficient to keep pace with the
annual growth in population. Therefore, there are dangers of large-scale
outbrea1s of water-borne diseases and increasing hardship due to lack of
drinking water for large masses of people. Available data on health and
diseases, although limited, emphasize the urgent need to improve the quantity
and quality of water supplies in Uttar Pradesh. Diseases which are almost
eliminated in many parts of the world are virtually endemic in UP. As an
example, in the same period, 1966-70, the number of cases of typhoid reported
annually per 100,000 population was 0.2 in North America and 16.0 in South



- 18 -
America, compared to UP's 166.6. Pilot water supply projects in tP have
successfully reduced the local incidence of diseases and mortality rates,
reducing diarrhoea in clhildren under five from 24% to 5% in four years,
eliminating typhoid, and reducing deaths from dysentery from 12.2 to 3.1 per
1,000 population. Rapid coverage of the entire population is not feasible,
but even modest increases in the percentage of the population covered are
unlikely until basic changes are made in the financing of projects in this
sector. In a drive to place the sector on a self-supporting basis, the
State Government has taken the first significant step in establishing the
Nigam and the Jal Sansthans.
58.       The subprojects have been selected with two objectives.  The first
is to construct facilities to meet the water demand in the IAVAL towns and
expand their sewerage systems to cover selected unserved areas. Since the
KAVAL towns are the major industrial centers of the State, the implication
of not improving the facilities to meet demand could be to adversely affect
the industrial development in these areas. The second objective is to
alleviate the drinking water problem for large masses of people living in
areas of difficult terrain and scarcity in the State. Care will be taken
to ensure that the subprojects themselves are least-cost solutions using
appropriate discount rates.  For example, the emphasis in the IAVAL towns'
projects has been to modify and use existing water treatment facilities to
produce additional quantities rather than construction of entirely new
facilities. Similar approaches to treatment plant design, which would
emphasize the use of local materials and resources, will be adopted in all
subprojects. Certain components, the urgency of which was not self-evident,
have been either eliminated from the subprojects, or postponed to later
stages in the program.
59.       The paucity of data, especially in the rural areas, makes any
quantification of the economic benefits of this project impossible. Yet, to
the extent that improved sanitation and increased water supply contribute
to better health and upgrading of social well-being, the project will
contribute to overall economic welfare. Given this assumption, which is
based on evidence recorded in other countries, the question of economic
justification is essentially one of project cost, composition and geographic
distribution. The considerations which led to the choice of the project
areas and the steps taken to ensure that project cost is brought down to
a minimum are indicated in para 58. The health survey to be conducted by
GUP, under the aegis of the project (para 41), will permit measurement
of the impact of the project on health improvement and possibly help to
establish guidelines for further water supply development policy in the
State.
60.       Although the establishment of these institutions is an enter-
prising and constructive step in trying to resolve the complex and ex-
tensive problems of this sector, there are a number of untested features.
These include: (i) the ability of as yet unrecruited financial, adminis-
trative and managerial staff; (ii) the capacity of regional Jal Sansthans



- 19 -
to operate and maintain systems in large territories, particularly in view
of the consumers' lack of education and their unwillingness to protect
their systems, and the potential backlog of repairs and rehabilitation
of existii:g systems; and (iii) the ability of urban Jal Sansthans to
effectively charge and collect from all consumers having water supply
and sewerage connections, and to obtain satisfactory property valuations
as bases for water tax on unmetered connections.
61.       Nevertheless, the Association's investment in the project is justi-
fied because of the impact it would have on the future development of the
sector which will affect more than 100 million people. UP State in India
was selected for this approach because of the availability of a large and
competent engineering staff which could serve as the nucleus for developing
an adequate organization for handling the sector administration, project
study and design, economic evaluation, procurement, construction supervision,
operations and maintenance. In dealing with a problem of such a large mag-
nitude as in UP, the Association's most effective role is a catalytic one;
since it cannot provide all the financing required to implement the needed
program, it can make the maximum contribution to the sector by participating
in the development of the institutions needed to generate resources within
the sector itself.
62.       The project will help to impose financial discipline and improve
financial management of the sector. Although the funds allocated for the
sector in the Five-Year Plans are small in relation to the needs, the
amounts involved are large. The multiple channels through which these
funds are provided and the accounting systems used, take it difficult to
assess the efficiency of overall sector investments. The proposed project
will help to address this issue, because it approaches the sector as
a whole. In addition, the accounting system will be changed to enable
determination of full costs.  Existing pricing policies will be reviewed
and adjusted to increase the revenues from water supply and sewerage
operations and to distribute the burden on the consumers more equitably.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Uttar Pradesh Agreement between the State of Uttar
Pradesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Jal Sambharan Tatha Sewer Vyawastha Nigam,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed development credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.       Features of the draft agreements of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 30, 35, 42-45, and 49-55 of this report. Additional con-
ditions of effectiveness include: (i) legislative action on the provisions



- 20 -
of the Ordinance has been completed (Section 5.01(d) of Development Credit
Agreement); (ii) Uttar Pradesh has made available a working capital of not
less than Rs 16,000,000 to the Jal Nigam (Section 5.01(e) of Development
Credit Agreement); (iii) the Bundelkhand Jal Sansthan has been constituted
(Section 5.01(f) of Development Credit Agreement); and (iv) the LIC-Jal
Nigam Agreement has been executed (Section 5.01(g) of Development Credit
Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamar-a
President
Attachments
August 6, 1975



AmXsI I
COUNTRY DATA - INDIA
ARiA                                                POPULATION                                   Dm3SI1
3,20,B.83 kh2                                          577.0  miton (mid-1973)                        350    Per kmhof arable land
SOCIAL IIDICATORS
Reference Countries
India                  flLnd        Philippines  U. K. *
19690 1970                                        jfVlYU ly9l
UN? PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) A                                *              110 /a90 gL                    220 ^      2,600 j
DE01GRAPHIC
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                                  38  b          38 Atd           is /dL   45              13.9 
Crude death rate (Per thousand)                                  13 La          16 La            19 L!!        12 Z9aj   12.0 9A
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                139        l 120-140 ,                         s 80       17.5
Lif  expectancy at birth (years)                                 11             50               48            58           72
Gross reproduetien ratg                                         2.7 /hj        2.9              3.2           3.3          1.3
Population growth rote fl                                       2.3            2                2.3.0                      0
Population growth rate - urban                                    3hk            4!               52 La         4S
Age struotare (percent)
0-14                                                          41             40  f            44  c         43 L        23.7 L
15-64                                                          56             57  f            53  c         54 L        62.7 La
65 and cver                                                                         f            3 9          3          13.6 
Age dependency ratio  4                                         0                               0.9           0.59          o.6 7
roonstic dependecy ratio A                                      1.0            1.7L             1.5           1.5           0.8 Ic
Urban population as percent of total                      1       8             20 /1.k           6 A          32 /8i /8.0
Faily planning:  N. of aco. ptors cueclativo (tho.od          1,000 Z          .                175           409
N.. of users (% of married women)                           ,.8
DAPLOUIT
Total labor forca (thousands)                              189,000 L      221,000 Ldo       40i,100  SL   13,200 Z      25,700 a
Percentage employed in agrioulture                             73 La          71  Ad           62 a         56 La          3
Pero-ntage unemployed                                         ..               3                2             7ZL7        3.6
INOISM DISTRIBUTION
Percent of national incone received by highest 5%                27 /           25 /r.          ..             25  I,r       15 /rt
Percent of national income recsived by highest 20%               52      Z      53              *. 54 7                      39 /r.t
leun   fntonal inore  received by lowst 20%               4.Z             Sa                                  1 .1 n,     j
Peruent of national ijoose reoeivd by lowest 40%                144 L          13 L12 4                                    19  r t
MSTRIBUTION OF LAND O wARSHIP
i owned by top 1%O of owners                                    ..             ..
% owned by smallest 10% of owners                               ..             ..
HEALTH AND NUIRITION
i*p,atin  par  ysician                                        5,800         4 4,800         27,300 /c       2,11  Lc        70 /o
Population per nursing peruon                                 5,140 o       5,110             8,320 7W     1,57 a          3-2 7T,
Populotion per hospital bed                                   2,600 L       i 1,620 L-        1,450 7;W      850  -.      1n0 /.
Per capita colotn  supply as % of requirecente /                 95             93               934i5                     129
Per capita protoin supply, total (grass par dayr~6               55            53                53           1.5           90
Of which, animal and pulse                                    19 &           16 lab           14  d         225
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                                                                                    057
DUWCATION
Adjuotd /8 primary school enrol,ent ratio                      h2             79 iL            71           112 /00 od   110
Adjusted 79 secondary school enrollment ratio                    10            26 cL            12            h5 t          72
Tears of uihooling provided, first and second level             12             12               12            10            13
Vocational -nrollmeot as % of sec. ..hool carolsent              4             6Z/af           28            10 /at,m       5
Adult literacy rate %                                           24 1f          36 7-1d.ah       56/c.si       72  dii       97L
B2USINS
Average No. of persona per coos (urban)                        2.6 /L4sk    2.8 /..j,.ak                                   0.8 /c,.l
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                                                 66 Zad,aj
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                                              23 /ad.a
Percnct of Sural pepolation conneoted to dectricity                                                            6
COISUINPTIIO
Radio receivers per 1000 pepolation                               5            23 /H           114            h6 /a        672 ,
Passenger oars par 1000 Population                            0o8                1 /a             2 Li         8 /         231 /a
Ilsctric pover consumption (kch p.r.)                            46           106                23 Li       255 7j      1,725 7i
Newsprint conaption p-c  kg per year                           0.2            0   Li           0.2 L         1.7  j        8 a .5
Notes, Jig-re. refer either to the latest periodo or to              account of ensiro.nmntel teiqpruturo, body weights, nd
the lctect years. Latent periodn refer in principle to               distribution by age and san of eational populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-              protein standards (rsquireants) for all ecuntriso as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               iohed. by SODA iEononlo Researh Service pruide for a miniu
a  Ths Per Ce pit o a  estmate in at    kt pYio   fllofane of 60 gra=s of total protein por day, and 20 grae cf
y-r  other th-o 1960,calculated by the sane o-nverion            anima and plub  protei, of hich i 10  lvane  hold thoe aimal
technIque no th.  91972 World Boni Atlno.                        protein.  Thesee standards are ecceoht lowe  than those of 75
/Z  Averugs outer of daughters per -onan of reproductive              gras Of total protein and 23 gro   of FOinal Protein as an
age.                                                              avergag  for the world, prop.oed by FAO in the Third Wrnd Food
ZI  Pcpultioc groth rmisc ar  for the d-od- ending io                 Su-ey.
1960 and 1970.                                               /7  Sose studiso have suggested that crude death r-tas of children
R katio of population under 15 and 65 and over ti  popula-            agee 1 through 4  ay bhe used as a first appronimailao inden of
tio* of ages 15-64 for age dependency rati  and to labor    _ml-otritiono
force of ages 15-64 for economic dependency rtio.             /6  Percectags enrollnd of oorrasponding population of school age
S  FAO reference standards represent physIological re-               -as defied for each country.
qpir-anis for nor= l artivity and health, takiog
4   1972;   A   Eatiate annual average for 1963-64 bhased en rocults of the national smple survey,   /c  1971;  /d  MEtlvoto;
1965-70;   If  1973;   /&  Estimated annuul average for 1951-61 b .ed en analyolo of d-onoial -c.uos;   A  1951-60;
hIBst  is sotioste based oc  births obtiaed by applicntion of 5reveree survival" method to results of 1951 and 1961
renousnc;   a  1960-72;   Lk  For the definition of urban see UL Oasorrenhlc Yearbooh 1972  p  151;   /7   tuoiipalitico,
regeucy caplials end other places with orbin chamacteriotic-, eaciuding West 1rian,   .r Por the definition of urban
sow UN Desocmachlc Yearbook 1973  p. 127;  A4  Area clas.ified as urban for local gorerncmct pu.rpo..s, i.e. _outy
boroughs, -unicipal boroughs end -rben districts;   /   1964;  /_ 1ncludod  all individuai  who p-rtioipate in any
typo of .ccoc..ic activity;   /g  AID estimgte Of labor force In age group 15-59.  IiDT report gi-on a figure of 1806.
rillion maeod on the 1971 popult n census.  The differe.oe.   is due to chongec in tho dofioition of a  orker.  In the
1971 oene'u, persons wore cl  _-fied only on the basis of their soio actiities.  This led to the exciosion of onveral
categerie, such an housewives;/,  HOUYehOlds;   Ai 1967-68;   A   1968;   /.  196?;  /,  Personnel in governmcnt
se_i_es only;  L.  1957;   /   1969;  Z   Ilulding rural hospitals,;  /4  C-ornsnt hospital establiohbnto ouly;
/i   1960-62;   /ab  1969-70;   Za7  Estim=te which includes overage students;   /d  1967,   /     Not including voceti nal
short-toem coureen;   /7.  1965;  Lg   1961;   lb  Population of 10 years and over based *n 000 percent staple data
of 1971;   Ai  15 years and over;   /,i ieta refer to houseboldo;           k  Dats boed on -saple tobulatiun of -cnouo
return;   /l  Dlta refer to households in cooventi-nal darlings;    sa Imports ol1y;  /-n  Rogitorod appliocots
for wrk_.
Sine end population  koe IOdoe.i. a relevant reference country, altho.gh it is in the per capita income group beloc
India.
c Thl inited Kiogdnn han been ceirotod boonnes of the i=portant rle of public nootor entnrpriec and the highly
devloped systen of no.al crIfare.
R3  July 23, 1975



ANNEX I
Pa=ge2
ECONOYI IC DEVELOPhiENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972 i us s 11)
GROSS NATIONAL FRODIJCT IN 1972/73 -/                                   ANNlUAL RATE OF GROWTH (76, constant prices)
US $ Bln.      %                     1961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1972/73
GN8 at Glarket Prices                60.0       100.0                         3.1                 4.3                1.0
Gross Domestic Ir,vestment           l0.4        17.2
Gross Nationial Saving                9.8        16.2
Current Account Balance              -0.6         1.0
Resource Gap                         -Q3        -0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Force          V.A. Per WVorker
US $ Bln.                            M blin.    6         uS 1  % of National Average
Agriculture                          23.1                  46.6          130.0  72 l           178            65
Industry                             10.1                 20.4            20.2  11.2          500            182
Servioes                             16.4                 33.0            30.2  16 .7         543            198
Total/average                        49.6                 100.0          180.4 100.0          275            100
GOVERNMRNT' FINfAliCE                                        S
General Government                         Central Government
(Rs. Bln)            of GDP                  (Rs. Bln            9t of GDP
1973774      1973/74  1971/72-1973774        1973/74       1973/74   1971/72-1973/74
Current Receipts                 88.11         15.2          15.8             50.59         8.7            9.2
Current Expenditures             88'.89        15.!          16.0             49s11         8.4            9.1
Current Surplus/Deficit          -0.7e         -0.1          -0.2              1.48         0.3         .  .1
Capital Expenditures  /          27.70          4.8           5.2             20.99'        3.6            3.9
External Assistance (net)         3.93          0.7           0,8              3.93         0.7            0.8
MOSEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1965/66   1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74  Septembsr 1973  September 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                61.4       93.3      105.7     122.4  -145.2         169.4        155.1          177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector         40.8       52.4       56.9      69.o       82.5       93-5         91.2          102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector        28.1       48.3       56.7       64.4      76.0       85.6         79.3           90.5
(Percentage or Index lNumbers)                   LParch 19'4       Oarch 1915
Money and Quasi Money as < of GDP  24.0         23.6       24.3       26.3      27.9       26.8
Wholesale Price Index
(1%61/62 = 100)                  131.6      171.6     181.1      188.4      207.1      254.0       283.6          308.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        3.8        5.5       4.0        9.9       22.7                        8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector         12.9        1.5        8.6      21.3       19.6       13.3                       11.5 /
Bank Credit to Private Sector        12.8       15.1       17.4      13.6       18.0       12.6                        13.5 v
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this 'table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the pea iod co:vered,
/Erntimatee.
S/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
Credit to Government, as on mlarch 21, 1975.
:/ Credit to Commerctal Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYtENTS          1971e"2   1972/71   1973/74   1974/75 v         MEaRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1911/72-1973/74)
tmillion   US  3    )                                         US S Mln.       %
Exports of Goods             2,150      2,558      3,157     3,900          Jute Manufacturers         324          12
Imports of Goods            -2,572    -2,682    -3,952    -5,715            Tea                        195           7
Tfrade Balance              -  412    -  124    -  765    -1,815             Cotton Textiles           186           7
NFS (net)                   -   48    -  146        n.a.      n.a.          Iron Ore                   151           6
Engineering Goods         187           7
Resource Gap                -  460    -  270        n.a.      n.a.          Others      1G592                       61
Interest Payments (net)    -  230    -  237         n.a.      n.a.          Total                    2,63          100
Other Factor Payments(net) -    7    -    8         n.a.       n.a.
Net Transfers                   358    -   50       n.a.      n.a.
Balance on Current Account   -           -6         n.a.      n.a.          EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1974
US $ Mln.
Official Aid
Disbursements            1,203        955      1,249    1,860           Repayable in foreign currency         11,612
Amortization              -385       -408      -692u'   -750            Repayable through export of goods       784
Transactions with IMF            -         -          75       515           Total Outstanding and Disbursed    12,396
All Other Items               -254         52        239      150
s/Al
Increase in Reserves (-)      -225        -34       -106       40           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75        19.0  percent
Gross Reserves (end year)   1,277       10311      i*417    1,377 i
,et Reserves (end year)       14277     1,311      1,342      769            IBED/IDA LENDING, APRIL 30, 1975   (US $ Mln.)
Fuel and Related lMaterials                                                                               IBRB       IDA
Imports                        262        265        719    1,375           Outstanding and Disbursed    455    2,102
of which: Petroleum          262        265        719    1,375           Undisbursed                    307    1,291
Outstanding including          762    3,393
Exports                         15         41         20     n.a.             Undisbursed
of which: Petroleum             9        37         16     n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE./
Prior to mid-December 1971  : US $ 1.00 = Rs 7.5                            After end June 1972  :  Floating Rate
Rs   1.00 = US S 0.133333
Spot Rate March 31, 1975:
Mid-December 1971 to          :  US $ 1.00 = Rs 7.27927                                    approx. US$ 1.00 = Rs  7.72
end June 1972                Rs   1.00 = US$0.137376                                    approx. Rs  1.00 = US$ 0.1295
s/ Estimated.
S/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service,
j  Net of IMF drawings outstanding as of end December 1974.
d/ Amortization and interest payments (5 750 million) as a
percentage of merchandise exports.
v  Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange
rates and IMP trade conversion factors as indicated in inside
front cover of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1975)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower           Purpose                     Bank         IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/
31 Credits fully disbursed                                      1,032-5      1,683.9
614-IN       1969   India        Tarai Seeds                       13.0         -           7.4
176-IN       1970   India       Kadana Irrigation                   -           35.0        1.6
203-IN       1970   India        Punjab Agricultural Credit          -          27.5       25.1
226-IN       1971   India       Andhra Pradesh Agr. Cr.             -           24.4        4.9
241-IN       1971   India       Telecommunications IV               -           78.0         .6
242-IN       1971   India       Power Transmission II               -           75.0       51.2
249-IN       1971   India       Haryana Agricultural Credit         -           25.0       12.9
250-IN       1971   India       Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                 -           35.0       10.0
264-IN       1971   India       Cochin II Fertilizer                -           20.0        5.9
267-IN       1971   India       WAheat Storage                      -            5.0          9
268-IN       1971   India       Pochampad Irrigation                 -          39-0        4
789-IN       1971   ICICI       Industry DFC IX                    60.0         -           6.2
278-IN       1972   India       Mysore Agricultural Credit          -           40.0       24.0
279-IN       1972   India       Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion    -             10.0        1.6
293-IN       1972   India       Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                -           30-0        9.5
294-IN       1972   India       Bihar Agricultural Markets           -          14.0       14.0
312-IN       1972   India       Population                          -           21.2       17.5
342-IN       1972   India       Education Project                   -           12.0       11.8
356-IN       1972   India       IDBI                                -           25.0       23.5
357-IN       1973   India       Nangal Fertilizer Expansion         -           58.0       25.8
377-IN       1973   India       Power Transmission III              -           85.0       85.0
378-IN       1973   India       Mysore Agricultural Markets         -            8.0        8.0
902-IN       1973   ICICI       Industry DFC X                     70.0         -          33.4
390-IN       1973   India       Bombay Water Supply                 -           55.0       51.4
391-IN       1973   India       Madhya Pradesh Agr. Cr.             -           33.0       21.7
392-IN       1973   India       Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.              -           38.0       27.4
403-IN       1973   India       Telecommunications V                 -          80.0       74.0
427-IN       1973   India       Calcutta Urban Development          -           35.0       30.6
440-IN       1973   India       Bihar Agricultural Credit           -           32.0       26.3
448-IN       1973   India       Railways XII                        -           80.0       11.8
456-IN       1974   India       HP Apple Processing & Marketing   -             13.0       13-0
481-IN       1974   India       Trombay IV                          -           50.0       47.4
1011-IN       1974   India       Chambal (R)                        52.0         -          45.7
482-IN       1974   India       Karnataka Dairy                     -           30.0       30.0
502-IN       1974   India       Rajasthan Canal (CAD)               -           83.0       64.3
520-IN       1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer                   -           91.0       88.0
521-IN       1974   India       Rajasthan Dairy                     -           27.7*      27.7
522-IN       1974   India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy                -           16.4*      16.4
526-IN       1975   India       Drought Prone Area                  -           35.0       35.0
1079-IN       1975   India       IFFCO Fertilizer                  109.0         -         109.0
528-IN       1975   India       Industrial Imports X                -          200.0      151.6
1097-IN       1975   India       Industry DFC XI                   100.0*        -         100.0
532-IN       1975   India       Godavari Barrage Project            -           45.0       45.0
540-IX       1975   India       ARC Credit                          -           75.0*      75.0
541-IN       1975   India       West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project       -           34.0*      34.0
562-IN       1975   India       Chambal-Madhya Pradesh              -           24.0*      24.0
Total                                                           1,436.5      3,428.1
of which has been repaid                                     680.3         11.9
Total now outstanding                                             756.      73,41.
Amount sold                      111.5
of which has been repaid  111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  _756         3,16.2
Total undisbursed (including*)l/                                  301 .b     1,236.1   1,537.9
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page   2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFO INVESTMfENTS
(As of June 30, 1975)
Amount (US$ znillion)
Year                 Company                        Loan        Equity       Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5          -           1.5
1959           Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.9          -           0.9
1960           Assam Sillimanite Ltd                 1.4          -           1.4
1961           K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2          -           0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.7         0.3          1.0
1964           Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8         0.4          1.2
1964-75        Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8         1.0         12.8
1964           Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0         0.3          1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.              1.0         0.1          1.1
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.               8.6         2.9         11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1         3.8         18.9
TOTAL                          43.0         8.8         51.8
Less:     Sold                       6.0         1.6          7.6
Repaid                     8.4         -           8.
Cancelled                 6.2         0.1          6.3
Now held                  22.4        7.1         29.5
Undisbursed                 -         0.6          0.6



AINEX II
Page 3
C. PROJErTS IN EXECUTIONi/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level Of disbursements was$L8O.3 million in FY75 or  57% cf Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline cof $1,538 million
as of June 30, 1975, corresponds roughly to comm.itrients over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
In. No.  789  Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date:  December 31_ 1976
Ln. No.  902  Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US 70.0 million loan of June 8  1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 789-IN is fully committed;
disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. Loan 1097 was declared
effective on July 1, 1975.
ln. No. 614 Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the
development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing processing plant has
been completed. Two other plants are being considerably expanded. Bids have
recently been cleared for orders to be placed for the equipment necessary to
complete the expansion program. Bids have also been cleared for special drilling
rigs to complete the land development component of the project.
Cr. No. 176 Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam on
the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage works
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The project
will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays in dam
construction. The agricultural componenlts of the project are also behind
schedule. Some of the delays in implementation have occured at the start
of the project before major investments have been made. These will not affect
the economic justification of the project. Further delays have occurred as a
result of building materials shortages. The Government has recently intervened
and made adequate quantities of building materials available. In spite of an
additional delay in the procurement of a large batching plant, the dam is still
expected to be completed in July 1977 which is in accordance with the revised
schedule.
Cr. No. 268 Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with con-
struction and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule.
Acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, have hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main
canals has fallen about one year behind schedule. This is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land development
is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability in
the project. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the credit operation
for land development and has requested IDA financing for a Command Area
Development Project, t be implemented by a Central Authority for all farmers
in need of land development. Construction of the dam, which was also affected
by temporary shortages of building materials, is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 532 Godavari Barrage Project; US$h5 million credit of March 7, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
This credit became effective on June 9, 1975. Tendering for both
civil works and supply of equipment is well under way. Bids for civil works
were opened on July 2 and are being evaluated.
Cr. No. 203 Punjab Agriculltural Credit Pro.ject; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No.  226  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
Credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No.  249  Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No.  250  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.o million credit
of June 11. 1971; Closing Date: December 31. 1976
Cr. No.  278  Mysore Agricultural Credit Pro.iect; US$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No.  293  Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No.  391  Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No.  392  Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit  ro.oiect; US$38.0 million credit
of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No.  440  Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No.  540  Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) Project; US$75.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers
through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of these credits started
slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were concerned, the main
difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements, in particular the
introduction of changes in lending criteria and lending terms and the strength-
ening of institutions responsible for assessing groundwater availability. These
constraints have been overcome and disbursements are on schedule. Tractor
procurement was delayed following changes in both the supply and demand situa-
tions after the projects were originally appraised, which promDted GOI to
request that indigenous as well as imported models should be eligible for IDA
financing under these credits. The Executive Directors approved this request
in December 1973 and those credits which have tractor components have been
amended accordingly. Tractor procurement is now in progress. Some funds
earmarked for land leveling and tractors have been reallocated to minor
irrigation components. Credit 540 is a continuation nationwide of the previous
program of agricultural credit projects, which were confined to individual
States. ARC will continue to act as the financial intermediary for refinancing
agricultural credit-. Conditions of effectiveness for this Cre(lit will have
to be fulfilled by August 28, 1975.
Cr. No. 267 Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1978
This project originally consisted of construction of ten 10,000 ton
capacity godowns and ten 20,000 silo units, engineering and consulting services
and an All-India Grain Storage Study. However, a July 1974 feasibility study for
silos indicated that due to substantial cost increases, particularly in steel,
cement and other materials, the cost of constructing silos, which represented the
bulk of total project costs, would be about double the original estimates. Also,
because the increase in demand for foodgrains in India has exceeded the increase
in foodgrains supply, the use of silos for buffer stock storage has shifted to
their use as bulk grain receiving, seasonal storage and dispatch facilities. The
Food Corporation of India (FCI), SaDA and IDA have thus agreed on a redesign of
the silo component that would provide about half the original 200,000 tons of



ANNEX II
Page 6
silo storage in 5 units and, in addition, 2 to 4 bulk grain receiving stations
and would also avoid an overrun in project cost. The economic rate of return
of this revised component is about 15%, slightly more than half the return
estimated at the time of original appraisal.  In order to allow sufficient
time to complete construction and disbursements of the silo program, the
project closing date has been extended by three years. The FCI has completed
a contract for construction of the silo foundations at 2 sites. A tender has
been offered for foundations at 3 sites.  Tenders have been cleared for a part
of the equipment.  The godown component has been fully disbursed.  In addition,
the All-India Grain Storage Study is progressing and the staff training program
has been planned in detail and is to be implemented soon. Project implementa-
tion is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456 Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 19Z4; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage,
juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project entity, the H.P.
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) has been
established and key senior staff recruited, including the Managing Director.
Feasiblity studies have begun for cold storage and the juice concentrate plant.
Project training is expected to begin soon. A project review mission returnea
in June and its report is being prepared.
Cr. No. 241 Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 403 Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in material
supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply were due to
labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and imports were delayed
due to longer than anticipated lead time required. Revised disbursement schedules
for these two credits are now expected to be met.
Cr. No. 242  Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: March 3111977
Cr. No. 377 Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date:  September 30. 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project financed
by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase of equipment
and materials required to develop a power transmission program in nine states
under the Fourth Five-Yes- Plan. Initial delays occurred because of problems
associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international bidding and
the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but all contract awards
have now been made. As a consequence of the delays, however, the closing date
of the credit had to be postponed accordingly.  For Power Transmission III,
specification and tendering procedures are progressing. Tenders received so
far indicate substantial cost overruns. Disbursements for Power Transmission
III have started.



Page 7
_.~    Cochin _L I       ize- US$20.3 million credit of July 30, 1971;
sinDat: June-1976
Cr. No.  `79  Gorakh1ur FertilizNr; US$10.0 million credit of JanuarY 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Gr. No.  3J7  Nangal Fertilizer -xpansion Project; US$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973;          Date: March 3       7
Cr. NTo.  481  Tromay iV Fertilizer !xpansion; US$50.C -nillion credit of
June 19, 1971; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
Cr. No.  520  Sindri Fertilizer Pro-iect; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
In. No. 1079  IFFCO Fertilizer Prolect; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the expansion
of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is now proceeding
about 24 months behind schedule mainly because of procurement delays, slow progress
on civil works, and shortages of steel and cement. Procurement problems have been
largely overcome, and most of the equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin
port.  Another factor which has contributed to the delay has been tech-nica  pro-
blems in the commissioning of the Cochin I plant, which has required a dispropor-
tionate amount of management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant
Operations improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these pro-
blems; the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The engineering desing for the Gorakhpur project
is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been ordered. Although
delivery of some equipment is taking longer than forecast during appraisal, the
project is progressing without serious difficulties. Engineering work, procure-
ment and site construction for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding
satisfactorily. Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment.  The Sindri Credit became effective on
February 27, 1975. Engineering design and procurement are proceeding on schedule.
The IFFCO loan became effective on April 28, 1975.
Cr. No. 448 Railways XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974: Closing
Date: September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways
investment program. Disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294 Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378 Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with extablishment of wholesale
markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the projects
has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was delayed due
to legal challenges arising out of the state's acquisition of 'Land for market
sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily resolved. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 312 Population; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings,
equipment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected
districts in each state, is almost complete.  The two Population Centers,
which will design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning
program, are now functioning. The building program will be largely completed
as scheduled in March 1976.
Cr. No. 342 Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress on
civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship programs
and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has been slow,
partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel and in the
preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve by FY1976 in line
with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356 Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. The
last review mission reported in May 1974 that satisfactory progress could be
expected soon. Another review mission has just returned from the field and is
preparing its report.
Cr. No. 390 Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million credit
of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 197b
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering
consultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action is
being taken to rephase the project construction to fit the financing available
from the credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the
project entity. The revised project description and estimated costs have been
agreed between the authorities concerned, but a financing plan has not yet
been finalized. Meanwhile, project construction is proceeding and most major
contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Dis-
bursements should therefore be faster than in preceding years. Financial
performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but major
rate increases will be necessary starting in 1976, if the recommended financing
plan is adopted.
Cr. No. 528 Tenth Industrial Imports Program; US$200.0 million credit of
February 14, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1975, for the initial tranche
of TJS$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March,7, 1975.  The credit
became effective on March 31, 1975. By mid-July, disbursements had reached
US$56.7 million.



hN11iDl I I
PFage 9
Cr. No. 427  Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973; Closini Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project was rather slow during the
first construction season (1973/74) in view of the reduction in overall funding
of the CMDA program and of organizational problems, but project implementation
and credit disbursements have now improved. However, project costs have
increased considerablv, especially for subprojects in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors. A recent supervision mission examined the status
of the project, with a view to suggesting reduction or omission of certain
subprojects, in order to accomodate the project size to funding available.
CMDA is now preparing a request for a redefined project description, expected
shortly for IDA's approval. The redefined project is now expected to be
completed by May 1977, six months behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 482  Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit of June 19,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1902
Cr. No. 521  Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Closing Date: December 31r7T9 -
r. No. 522  Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy development
projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy cooperative
scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Credit became effective on December 23,
1974. The Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) has been established,
and senior management staff appointed. Some progress has been made in planning
and training of specialized teams and in preparing a banking plan, but the
project is about 4 m.onths behind schedule at this early stage largely due to
insufficient staffing of the KDDC, which is responsible for project implementation.
The Madhya Pradesh credit became effective on July 23, 1975. Conditions of effect-
iveness for the Rajasthan credit will have to be fulfilled by August 15, 1975.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52 million
loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No.  502  Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 million
credit of July 31,1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan and this credit became effective on December 12, 1974.
Both projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In particular, agri-
cultural extension has made remarkable progress. A recent supervision mission
for both projects reported that land development had not yet started. Ways to
overcome this delay are presently being discussed with GOI and the project
authorities.
Cr. No.  562  Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project; US$24
million credit of June 20  1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
This credit was signed on June 20, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
will have to be fulfilled by September 19, 1975.



ANK4X I_
Pave 10
Cr. No.  5h1  West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million credit
of April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This credit was signed on April 28, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
will have to be met by August 29, 1975.
Cr. No. 526 Drought Prone Areas Program; US$35.0 million credit of January 24,
1975; Closing Date:  June 30  1980
This project will help to increase employment and production in order
to improve income distribution for weaker sections of the population in six
districts selected for intensive assistance. The credit for this project was
signed on January 24, 1975 and became effective on June 9, 1975.
Cr. No.      Rural Electrificationi US$57.0 million credit of JU1Y 23, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This credit was signed on July 23, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
will have to be fulfilled by September 23, 1975.



e - t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:         Government of Uttar Pradesh (GUP) for on-lending to Jal
Nigam (UP State Water Supply and Sewerage Development
Corporation).
Amount:              US$40.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    India will make available to GUP funds equivalent to
the proceeds of the credit as part of Central grant and
loan assistance to the State for development purposes.
GUP will make available to the Jal Nigam funds equiva-
lent to the proceeds of the credit on the following
terms: 43% as grant, 57% as loan for not less than 18
years, including three years' grace, at an interest
rate not exceeding that charged by the GOI for devel-
opment assistance to GUP. The Nigam's initial on-
lending rates will be: (i) in the range of 8% to 11%
for the KAVAL towns; (ii) not less than 3% for regional
Jal Sansthans; and (iii) in the range of 7% to 9% for
other local bodies, with such loans available for
periods not exceeding 25 years. Permanent on-lending
rates will be established following studies of the
financial and resource generation capacity of the
Jal Nigam and the Jal Sansthans.
Purpose:             To assist in the reorganization of the water supply and
sewerage sector in the State of Uttar Pradesh, the con-
struction of water supply schemes in selected rural areas
suffering from hardship due to inadequate water supply,
and the improvement of water supply and sewage systems
in the five largest cities of the State ("the KAVAL
towns").



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:
-- (US$ Million) --
Local   Foreign    Total
Equipment and Materials
Rural Water Supply Schemes    6.7         2.6      9.3
Urban Water Supply Schemes    9.3         3.6     12.9
Urban Sewerage Schemes          1.5      0.5       2.0
Subtotal              17.5       6.7     24.2
Civil Works
Rural W4ater Supply Schemes    7.5        -        7.5
Urban Water Supply Schemes    6.7         -        6.7
Urban Sewerage Schemes          2.9       -        2.9
Subtotal              17.1        -       17.1
Engineering                       6.6        -       6.6
Subtotal, Cost
of Works:        41.2      6.7      47.9
Equipment, Consulting
Services, Training              2.0       1.0      3.0
Contingencies:  Physical          6.2       1.1      7.3
Price           11.5       2.2     13.7
60.9     11.0      71.9
Interest during Construction    3.1          -       3.1
Total Financing Required: 64.0       11.0      75.0
Financing Plan:
(US$ Million)
IDA Credit                               40.0
LIC Loan                                 22.5
GUP Loans and Grants                      12.5
75.0
Estimated Disbursements:                  - - - (US$ Million) - - -
FY 76    FY 77    FY 78    FY 79   FY 80  Total
3.3     12.6      14.1      8.2      1.8    40.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement Arrangments! :
Contracts for about US$16 million equivalent worth of
equipment and materials would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB). Indian
suppliers bidding under ICB would be granted a preference
margin of 15% or the current rate of import duty, which-
ever is less. About 300 contracts for civil works totaling
about US$25 million equivalent would be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally, with the exception
of such individual contracts not exceeding US$125,000
(Rs. 1 million), which may be executed by force account.
The civil works in the regional Jal Sansthans are widely
disbursed over area and time, and would not be suitable
for ICB. In the five KAVAL towns, it would not be
practical to group the civil works contracts for the
purpose of ICB, and the largest of these individual
contracts, unlikely to exceed US$3 million, would not
interest foreign contractors. Contracts totaling US$18
million for equipment and materials which are not suit-
able for ICB for reasons of small size, high transportation
costs, or high damage risk would also be awarded follow-
ing competitive bidding advertised locally. GUP local
procurement procedures for civil works, equipment and
materials are acceptable to IDA.
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Consulting
Services:         Totaling about 300 man-months for financial, managerial,
training and engineering consultants.
Appraisal Report:   742-a-IN, dated July 29, 1975.






78'             SO,                                              82'                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFGHANISTAN1
Himacha]            '
Pradesh                        RT  t,ASK>                  > >,.                                                                                                                        BUAR.
600011         '~~~~ 4o  6~~~ ~                                       C  HI N  A                           ~9Tbl
'4,  0,  0<            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~~~>.                                           L] ~~~~~~~BANGLADESH  2K
ro50nn ~~~~   >R>VAIIAAW~~~~  -  >                 -       A
0                                                                            Ba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8y of Be-gal
H                                                                           >2
IooNMFAR-       B1KZR ~                ~nO                                                                     IN   DI A
4tv' t\  'K->              UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
50  '-   C'-.  1  RubE1 11                                           1 - - - N- T0-                          CA II
u81    A--   -1-EAHIWAS 1,g  .g                       STAT -OOT-IE
?Dr I                                                                                                                                                  0     T.-y AS
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2
'90                                                                            r                                                                                                              <S
AS, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I  ~       ONAIpT                       A Prn
50                                           -0                        50~~~~~~~~~
Prooes    h  t~~~~~~~'  -\  ''                                 IF>fh                   I
P                                                                                                                            -)
k                                                                      so~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~A~LAH   TA' RLPO  ' 
Mad h ya                               P road e s                               1
O  6,6065 '16 II ~~~~I6,,>  ~                               0         40        AT         120       lOT
20'                                                                                                                                      '0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 06
-24-             ~~~~~7,                                               ST.                      M LES                     ,2.                                                  0,4'               S



