Report No. 742a-IN                                                                -8                          5py
India
Appraisal of the Uttar Pradesh
Water Supply and Sewerage Project
July 29, 1975
Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only bv the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1, 1975)
Currency Unit       =    Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00              =    Rs 8.0
Rs 1.00      5            US$0.125
Rs 1 lakh (10 >      =    US$12,500
Rs 1 crore (10 )    =    US$1.25 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter              (mm)      =    0.04 inches                     (in)
1 meter                   (m)       '    3.28 feet                       (ft)
1 kilometer               (k)       =    0.62 miles                      (mi)
1 square meter            (m )          10.8 square feet                 (sq ft)
1 hectare                 (ha)      -   10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres                     (ac)
1 square kilometer        (km2)          0.386 square miles              (sq mi)
1 liter                   (1)       -    0.26 US gallons                 (gal)
1 liter per capita per
day                  (1/cd)    =    0.26 US gallons per capita
per day                   (gcd)
1 cubic meter             (m3)      =    35.3 cubic feet                 (cu ft)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)  =    31.5 million cubic meters
per year or
22.8 million US gallons per
day or                    (mgd)
35.4 cubic feet per second    (cusecs)
or
86.4 million liters per day
1 million liters per day (mld)      =    0.01 cubic meters per second  (m3/sec)



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI       =    Government of India
UP        =    State of Uttar Pradesh
GUP       =    State Government of Uttar Pradesh
LIC       =    Life Insurance Corporation of India
Nigam     =    Jal Nigam, or the Uttar Pradesh State Water Supply
and Sewerage Development Corporation
KAVAL
towns         The five major cities of Uttar Pradesh - Kanpur,
Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad and Lucknow
Jal
Sansthan -    Water Authority
RJS       =    Regional Jal Sansthan
LSGED     =    Local Self Government Engineering Department of
Uttar Pradesh (from June 1975 merged in the Nigam)
WHO/PIP   =    World Health Organization/Preinvestment Planning Unit
of the Division of Environmental Health
Ordinance      The Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance,
1975
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..... ..................... i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION                .......................                        1
2.   THE SECTOR  ....................................-----...                   2
Present Situation ..............        ... . ........ **.. *       2
Sector Development and Objectives  .............                    4
Sector Organization  ......         ........................        6
3.    THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES  ....................                  7
Jal Nigam (UP State Water Supply and Sewerage
Development Corporation)  ....................               7
The Beneficiaries  ......         ..........................        9
Regional Jal Sansthans  ............ . ...............   10
KAVAL Towns Jal Sansthans  .....           ...................   10
Accounts and Audit  ......           .........................   11
Other Local Bodies' Water Supply and Sewerage
Systems  ....................................    12
4.   THE PROJECT AND SUB-PROJECTS               ..........................    12
The Project  ....................................    12
Sub-Projects  ....................................    13
Sub-Projects Justification            .......................    14
Sub-Projects Appraisal           ...........................    15
Cost Estimates  ................  ... ...........    16
Amount of IDA Credit          .............................    18
Procurement                     .......... 18
Disbursement .          .       ..... #.... . .........   19
Sub-Projects Design and Construction  ...... .......   20
5.   JUSTIFICATION  .           ......................................   20
Project Risks  ........        ............................    22
6.    FINANCES .        ............................................    23
Past Performance and Present Position ..........             ..   24
Financial Operations of the Nigam ......... .......   25
Jal Sansthans' Finances  ................         ...........  27
Water Supply and Sewerage Taxes and Charges ........  28
The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)  .....  30
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ..................  31



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Reported cases of water-borne diseases in Project Areas
and in Uttar Pradesh State for five years 1966-70
2.   Description of the Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal Districts and
the Sub-projects to be constructed therein
3.   Description of the KAVAL towns and of the sub-projects
to be constructed therein
4.   Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (Water Supply and Sewerage Development
Corporation)
5.   Regional Jal Sansthans, and Jal Sansthans of the KAVAL towns
6.   Forecast of Population and Water Demand, with Design Criteria
7.   Outline Technical Report for Nigam Sub-Project Appraisal
8.   Supervision Requirements
9.   Cost Estimates Summary for Basic Package of Sub-Projects
10.   Disbursement Schedule
11.   Water Supply and Sewerage Sector in Uttar Pradesh - Financial
Performance 1969-74 and Forecasts 1974-79
CHARTS
9306      Implementation Schedule (Annex 2)
9307      Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (State Water Supply and Sewerage
Development Corporation) Recommended Organization (Annex 4)
9308      Regional Jal Sansthan - Recommended Organization (Annex 5)
9309      KAVAL town (Lucknow Municipal Corporation) - Present
Organization of Water Supply and Sewerage Services (Annex 3)
9310      KAVAL town (Lucknow Municipal Corporation) - Recommended
Organization of Jal Sansthan (Annex 5)



- 3 -
MAPS
IBRD      11384      Uttar Pradesh with Regional Jal Sanathans and
KAVAL towns
11385     Lucknow Water Works - Existing and Proposed
11386     Lucknow Sewerage Works - Existing and Proposed
11387     Typical Rural Water Supply Scheme






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to (i) assist in the
reorganization of the water supply and sewerage sector in the State of Uttar
Pradesh (UP); (ii) construct piped water supply schemes in selected rural
areas suffering from water scarcity and hardship; and (iii) improve the
quality of water supply and sewerage systems in the five largest cities of
the State. The project, to be executed over four years, forms part of the
State's Fifth Five Year Plan, and the reorganization proposals are the first
phase of a long-range program of institutional and financial reform. The
State Government (GUP) requires US$75 million equivalent to finance the
project, which includes a US$11 million equivalent foreign exchange compo-
nent. The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) will provide US$22.5 mil-
lion equivalent, GUP about US$12.5 million equivalent and an IDA Credit of
uS$40 million is proposed to cover the balance.
ii.       The project is based on investigations, plans and designs prepared
by the GUP Local Self Government Engineering Department, and on recommenda-
tions of a 1973 IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program sector survey mission.
iii.      The Credit will be made to the Government of India (GOI) and trans-
ferred to GUP as part of the GOI financial allocation of the Fifth Five Year
Plan. GUP will transfer the sector's allocation under the Plan, including
the proceeds of the Credit in the form of loans and grants, to the Jal Nigam,
a newly established autonomous Corporation charged with developing, monitor-
ing and regulating the sector in UP. It is intended to function as the de-
velopment finance agency for the sector. It will be responsible also for
planning, design and construction supervision of all projects in the sector,
during the next 10-15 years. Local water authorities called Jal Sansthans
will be established, and will be responsible for operation and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage systems. These Jal Sansthans could be for
individual city systems or for a number of conveniently grouped urban and
rural systems in a region.
iv.       The project has high priority because of the urgent need in UP to
(1) develop effective institutional and financial arrangements for the
sector to provide adequate and safe services for over 100 million people,
(2) transfer to three regional Jal Sansthans the existing water supply
functions of about 60 local authorities in three predominantly rural areas
having a total population of about 7.6 million; (3) organize these regional
Jal Sansthans, and concurrently construct rural water supply schemes in
their areas, to relieve severe hardship suffered by over one million people
due to lack of water; and (4) improve on the inadequate service to about
5 million people in expanding urban areas and minimize the health hazards
in their present systems. The project, divided into about 300 sub-projects,
includes construction of about 1,000 rural water systems in over 2,000 vil-
lages, and extension and augmentation of existing urban water supply and
sewerage systems in the five largest cities in the State.



- ii -
v.        The water supply component includes the development of about 900
water sources and the provision of about 1,000 piped water supply distribu-
tion systems to rural areas, with about 200 treatment works. The urban sys-
tems would include further development of existing surface and groundwater
sources, extension of transmission, distribution and storage systems and
programs of leakage detection and waste prevention. These facilities should
be adequate to meet daily requirements for water supply in the five cities
through 1981, but further improvements, particularly to water treatment
plants, will be planned as part of the project. The sew-erage component
is designed to improve existing systems in these cities and extend collec-
tion systems in areas of the cities with greatest need. The project pro-
vides for training of staff and engineering and management consulting
services to assist the Nigam and Jal Sansthans. For this purpose, inter-
nationally and locally recruited consultants would be selected and employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Specialized
equipment, such as drilling rigs, will be provided to expedite development
of projects.
vi.       Of the estimated total financing required amounting to Rs 60 crores
(US$75 million equivalent), Rs 23.4 crores (US$29.3 million equivalent) is
for rural water supply schemes; Rs 27.4 crores (US$34.2 million equivalent)
for urban water supply schemes and Rs 6.8 crores (US$8.5 million equivalent)
for urban sewerage systems. Specialised equipment, consulting services and
training are estimated to cost about Rs 2.4 crores (US$3 million equivalent).
The proposed Credit would cover the estimated direct and indirect foreign
exchange component (US$11 million) and about 45% of local costs (Rs 23
crores (US$29 million equivalent)). The LIC would finance Rs 18 crores
(US$22.5 million equivalent) representing 36% of local costs, and GUP will
finance the remaining 19% amounting to Rs 10 crores (US$12.5 million equiv-
alent), including interest during construction of about Rs 2.5 crores (US$3
million equivalent).
vii.      Contracts totalling about US$16 million equivalent for equipment
and materials will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A margin of preference up to
15% or the customs duty, whichever is lower, is proposed to be granted to
local manufacturers of equipment and materials. Contracts for equipment
and materials, which would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding totalling Rs 14 crores (US$18 million equivalent), and about 300
civil works contracts, totalling about US$25 million equivalent, which will
be too small to attract international bidders, will be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with GUP proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
viii.     Disbursements from the Credit and LIC loans will be made only
after technical reports on sub-projects prepared by the Nigam have been
approved by IDA, prior to commencement of works. The completed sub-projects
will be transferred to Jal Sansthans for operation and maintenance but will
be subject to monitoring and regulation by the Nigam. Investment criteria
for each sub-project, lending terms and methods of charging for the water



- iii -
and sewerage services, will be agreed between each Jal Sansthan and the
Nigam at the time of sub-project preparation and before presentation to
IDA. Basic guidelines for the Nigam's investment criteria, including
initial financial performances and rates of return for Jal Sansthans, have
been agreed between the Nigam and IDA, and will be further reviewed after
consultants' recommendations have been received. Reviews by the appraisal
mission of the design of some of the sub-projects, and of the design cri-
teria used for others included in the project, indicated that these are
acceptable. The arrangements made for the future review of sub-projects are
sufficient to ensure that technically sound, least cost sub-projects will be
financed from the Credit. The program of works proposed by GUP is realistic
and well-conceived.
ix.       The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$40 million equiv-
alent.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA Credit of US$40
million to help finance a US$75 million equivalent water supply and sewerage
project in the State of Uttar Pradesh (UP). This would be the second IDA
Credit for water supply and sewerage projects in India; the first, a Credit
of US$55 million, was made in 1973 to help finance the Bombay Water Supply
and Sewerage Project, which is now under construction.
1.02      The Government of India would be the borrower of the proposed
Credit, which would be on-lent to the Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (Water Supply
and Sewerage Development Corporation) through the State Government of Uttar
Pradesh (GUP). The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) would provide
US$22.5 million equivalent (30%) as a co-lender with IDA, and GUP would ensure
that sufficient funds are made available to the Nigam to complete the proj-
ect. The project is part of the US$115 million equivalent water supply and
sewerage sector program proposed in the GUP fifth Five-Year Plan 1974-79.
The construction components of the project will consist of about 300 sub-
projects in rural areas and in the five major cities of UP, Kanpur, Agra,
Varanasi, Allahabad and Lucknow, known as the KAVAL towns. These sub-proj-
ects, to be constructed from about October 1975 through March 1979, will
provide piped water supply for about 1.2 million people in rural areas and
the extensions, improvements and up-rating of existing water supply and
sewerage facilities will serve about 5 million people of the KAVAL towns.
1.03      This project has evolved from a request made by GOI to IDA in 1972
to assist GUP in financing extensions and improvements to the KAVAL towns'
water supply and sewerage systems. Following an IDA suggestion, a WHO/PIP
mission under the IBRD/WHO cooperative program surveyed the sector in 1973.
Their report highlighted that urgent attention needs to be paid to:
(i) institutional improvements in the sector; and
(ii) provision of rural water supplies in hardship and
scarcity areas.
An IDA pre-appraisal mission in May 1974 recommended major institutional
changes, and proposed the financing of rural and urban schemes.
1.04      The principal objectives of the project are:
Ci) development of the Nigam, particularly in its role as
financing agency for the water supply and sewerage sector
in the State;



-2-
(ii)  development of water authorities (Jal Sansthans) with re-
sponsibility for provision of safe water supply and satis-
factory sewerage facilities for the urban and rural popula-
tion. As a first stage the project would assist the devel-
opment of three large regional Jal Sansthans and five urban
Jal Sansthans; and
(iii)  to bring urgently needed water supplies to areas of hardship
and scarcity.
1.05      The feasibility studies for the sub-projects have been prepared by
the Local Self Government Engineering Department (LSGED) of Uttar Pradesh
which has been absorbed into the Nigam. The Nigam is GUP's planning and
regulating agency, and most importantly, the development finance agency
for the sector. It will advise GUP on all policy matters concerning the
sector. A special unit of the Nigam would appraise and supervise all schemes
to be financed by the Nigam, including the sub-projects proposed in this
project. This is a new approach to the development and regulation of this
sector in India. The successful development of this approach could mean an
extension of similar techniques to other States. The traditional project-
by-project approach will make little impression on the massive problems
requiring solution in this sector in India.
1.06      IDA would enter into an agreement with LIC, whereby IDA would
carry out the reviews of sub-projects and procurement matters on behalf
of the parties, and would advise LIC on the suitability of proposed in-
vestments and on disbursements. The agreement would also provide that
project execution would be the subject of regular review between IDA and
LIC.
1.07      Foreign and local consultants will be used during project execu-
tion by the Nigam, the regional Jal Sansthans (RJSs) and the Jal Sansthans
in the KAVAL towns to improve their technical, management, financial and
administrative procedures. The project appraisal was based on the informa-
tion provided by GUP, LSGED and LIC. The appraisal was undertaken in
September/October 1974 by Messrs. Mould, Rasmusson, Van Nimmen, LaBahn
(IBRD), and Hudson (consultant). Reviews of the GUP final draft legisla-
tion were made by Messrs. Mould and Sassoon in Lucknow in February 1975.
2. THE SECTOR
Present Situation
2.01      Uttar Pradesh, with a population of about 95 million, roughly 16%
of the population of India, covers an area of 295,000 km2 on India's north-
eastern border with Nepal and China, parallel to the Himalayan Mountains.
(Map IBRD 11384). Four major rivers, including the Ganga and Yamuna rise
in the foothills of these mountains and flow southeast through the Indo-
Gangetic Plain of UP to Bihar and West Bengal. Over 86% of UP's population



is rural, living in or around 112,000 villages, with the remainder in 293
towns with populations ranging from 5,000 in the smallest, to almost 2 mil-
lion people in Kanpur, the largest of the five KAVAL towns. The Indo-
Gangetic Plain covers about two-thirds of the State and because of readily
available supplies of surface and groundwater, it has been the principal
populated area for centuries. Large population increases (50% - or 31 mil-
lions in 25 years) have increased demand for marginal land in unfertile and
water scarcity areas. In the Hill Districts of Kumaon and Garhwal, and in
the Bundelkhand, population growth rate is now about 10% higher than in the
Plain. The urban growth rate in UP is lower than the national average, but
the KAVAL towns are now expanding at a rate of about 4% per annum.
2.02      Climatic conditions vary widely from the very hot, almost arid
areas of the southern districts, including Bundelkhand, to temperate areas
with ice-capped mountains, in the northern Hill Districts. Temperatures
range from summer peaks of over 45°C in the Bundelkhand to winter lows of
below - 10°C in the inhabited areas of the hills. The annual rainfall in
the south is below 800 mm, while in the hills it can be above 2000 mm.
2.03      In a predominantly agricultural economy - 75% of workers are
engaged in agriculture which contributes about 58% of the State's income
- an average worker has to support about four persons, including himself,
with an annual per capita income of about US$80 equivalent at 1970-71 prices.
In urban areas, e.g. a KAVAL town, per capita incomes are over US$120 equiv-
alent, compared to under US$60 equivalent in the poorest rural areas.
2.04      Data on health and diseases in UP are limited.  The latest avail-
able data covering the five years 1966-70 which demonstrate the order of
magnitude of UP's problem of water-borne diseases are shown in Annex 1.
Although the data indicate some 6 million cases of waterborne diseases
occur annually in UP, they represent only the reported cases by clinics
and health centers. It is common knowledge that a substantially larger
number of cases go unreported. However, the data emphasize the urgent
need to improve safe water supplies. Diseases which are almost eliminated
in many parts of the world are virtually endemic in UP. As an example, in
the same period, 1966-70, the number of cases of typhoid reported annually
per 100,000 population were 0.2 in North America; 16.0 in South America,
compared to UP's 166.6. Pilot water supply projects in UP have success-
fully reduced the local incidence of waterborne diseases, reducing diarrhoea
in children under 5 years from 24% to 5%, eliminating typhoid, and reducing
deaths from dysentery from 12.2 to 3.1 per 1,000 population. The Nigam
intends to operate a rural health surveys program with the GUP Director of
Medical Services for selected sub-projects to ascertain the health of rural
people before and after introduction of piped water supplies. The scope of
the surveys and the sub-projects to be included in the surveys will be
mutually agreed upon between IDA and the Nigam.
2.05      In areas outside the Indo-Gangetic Plain, such as rural Bundel-
khand, water is scarce and sometimes saline. It is often to be found only
at depths of 500 feet or more, and these wells usually dry up in summer.



- 4 -
In the Hill Districts, water supplies have to be hand-carried up or down
steep, rough paths, for long distances - often several miles in summer,
when the nearest sources dry up.
Sector Development and Objectives
2.06      The inadequacy of resources, combined with rapid population growth,
has contributed to the current situation, whereby less than 30% of the
population has access to safe water supplies, and some 65 million have only
polluted or inadequate sources. Of the 293 towns with water supplies, serv-
ing 12.7 million people, 112 do not have safe systems and 86 require major
improvements to continue safeguarding supplies. Only about 3 million rural
people living in 5,000 villages have piped systems, the remainder relying
on surface water, dug wells, irrigation wells or channels which are often
polluted 1/. Over 32,000 villages are in drought-prone or rocky zones (e.g.
Bundelkhand), or have been classified as hardship areas (e.g. Kumaon and
Garhwal), and are listed as priority areas for provision of water supply
(Annex 2). Forty towns have limited sewerage systems serving about 6 mil-
lion people. The rural areas have no sewerage facilities. Only a few
experimental rural sanitation systems have been developed. The few exist-
ing sewage treatment works use oxidation ponds. Some large towns use
untreated sewage for irrigation with or without dilution by water.
2.07      Urban water supply and sewerage systems in the KAVAL towns (Annex 3)
and other important urban areas were first constructed in the late nineteenth
century.  With subsequent extensions, these systems provided adequate high
quality water supplies and satisfactpry sewerage facilities to their communi-
ties for almost 50 years. The past 30 years have seen a high growth rate
of urban population accelerated by immigration from rural areas; and failures
by responsible local bodies to plan for adequate systems, good standards of
maintenance and financial growth. As a result, most urban systems are in-
capable of meeting demand, are in poor operating condition, and are finan-
cially dependent on GUP or local government entities' taxation. Substantial
investments and trained manpower are needed to upgrade these systems, and
financial performances must be improved to levels where urban water under-
takings can generate sufficient funds for their own expansion, and be able
to support poorer and less viable systems in the sector.
2.08      The third Five-Year Plan (1961-66) provided the earliest signifi-
cant construction program of rural water supply systems. Annual investments
thereon - mostly GUP grants-in-aid - have increased from Rs 40 lakhs (US$0.5
million equivalent) in 1951/52 to Rs 5.9 crores (US$7.4 million equivalent)
by 1973-74. The responsible local bodies - Zilla Parishads - have been unable
1/   A survey in one UP region showed 93% of open wells and 45% of wells
using hand pumps had high coliforn counts indicating probability of
fecal contamination.



- 5 -
to employ the necessary technical and financial expertise to operate and
maintain them, and the systems are often broken down or unreliable, and many
villagers have never been charged for water supplies. Because of these con-
ditions, institutional lenders, such as LIC, have been reluctant to partici-
pate in financing of rural water supply schemes (para 6.20).
2.09      The sector development program for the next 15 years aims to pro-
vide adequate treated water supplies to about 200 towns and to about 30,000
villages in the scarcity and hardship areas, and construction of a few urban
sewerage systems. The total development cost for such a program at 1975
prices would be about Rs 1,000 crores (US$1.3 billion equivalent). About
US$115 million or less than 10% of the estimated needs for the next 15 years
is provided in the draft Fifth Five-Year Plan 1974/1979. The proposed proj-
ect (para 4.01) will form a major part of this Plan, as shown below:
Draft
Fifth Five-Year Plan   Proposed Project
US$ Million              US$ million
Rs Crores  Equivalent   Rs Crores   Equivalent
Urban water supplies             45.0         56.0        27.4         34.2
Urban sewerage systems           10.0         13.0         6.8          8.5
Rural water supplies             37.0         46.0        23.4         29.3
92.0        115.0       57.6          72.0
Specialized equipment,
advisory services and
training                                                 2.4          3.0
60.0         75.0
Funds are normally allocated by GOI to States for development of water
supplies and sewerage in the form of 30% grants and 70% loans, which bear
interest at rates between 5% and 6%, for about 18 years with three years
grace. In the Fifth Five-Year Plan, all sources of funds such as IDA
Credits or LIC loans for State projects are included in such allocations,
and are not additional to Plan resources transferred by GOI to States.
2.10      In the next 15 years, it is unlikely that Plan allocations will
be large enough to make a significant impact on the sector's development.
GUP has therefore decided that the sector development policy should be to
mobilize potential resources within the sector as quickly as possible by
commencing a major reorganization of the sector, particularly its institu-
tions; introducing fiscal discipline, particularly in urban water under-
takings; and improving overall efficiency of operation and maintenance.



-6-
Sector Organization
2.11      State Governments in India have the primary responsibility for
development and organization of the water supply and sewerage sector, with
GOI providing national planning and inter-State coordination through Five-
Year Plans and special programs. Various UP laws since 1916 have vested
responsibility for development and operation of water supply and sewerage
in over 500 local bodies, i.e. town and district councils of elected repre-
sentatives, with the GUP Department of Local Self-Government controlling and
regulating the sector. Partly because of the non-mandatory nature of many
of the local bodies' powers and duties and certain other legislative diffi-
culties, it has not been possible to enforce satisfactory operation and
maintenance of systems. Under the law, GUP could not take over water and
sewerage services from a neglectful local body without also taking over
responsibility for all other municipal or district functions.
2.12      In 1927, the State formed a Department of Public Health Engineer-
ing, which became LSGED in 1949. Until assimilation in the Nigam in 1975,
it was the GUP agency responsible for the development, organization and
operation of the sector (Annex 4). Although LSGED's original role was that
of a quality control agency, GUP became increasingly reluctant to enforce
LSGED's recommendations, because to do so would have required unpopular
increases in water taxes and charges by local bodies. From the 1950's LSGED
became the project planning, design and construction agency in the sector
because of the inability of local bodies to hire and maintain adequate
technical staff. Since 1971, no local body has designed or constructed its
own facilities; instead they have given the proceeds of loans or grants to
LSGED, which executed the work and transferred completed assets to the local
bodies. LSGED became a high quality technical organization, and during the
1960's successive very capable Chief Engineers convinced GUP to increase the
sector's share of GUP's limited resources. To maintain water supplies, LSGED
unofficially took over many rural and small urban systems and met the oper-
ating cost from capital budgets. In some cases newly-built systems were
never taken over by a local body, and LSGED developed, with some success,
tariffs and charges to cover the cost of operations and maintenance of
these systems.
2.13      In 1973, GUP promoted the establishment of a State Water Board, but
this was politically unacceptable. Local autonomy would have ceased, and
control of systems would have been moved to the center in Lucknow. Further-
more, GUP could have been vulnerable to strikes by the Board's staff, as
occurred in 1973 when the State Electricity Board's engineers took indus-
trial action. In May 1975, GUP promulgated the UP Water Supply and Sewer-
age Ordinance, 1975 as a preliminary to the passage through the Legislative
Assembly during 1975 of new legislation, which provides for the development,
maintenance and regulation of the sector, including establishing the Nigam
(para 3.02) and Jal Sansthans (para 3.07). This Ordinance has been reviewed
and is a satisfactory basis for achieving the project's objectives (para 1.04),
but its enactment as permanent legislation by UP Legislative Assembly is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed project. Under the project, the
first Jal Sansthans to be designated by CUP will be regional water authorities



- 7 -
for Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal (RJSs) 1/, and urban water authorities
in each of the five KAVAL towns. The long-term objective will be for about
ten or twelve RJSs, although during the development period, a larger number
of such bodies may be created. Provisional estimates indicate at least a
25-year program of reform and reorganization to be necessary before the
sector can provide adequate internal resotirces for long-term development,
operations and maintenance.
3.  THE BORROIWER ANTD THE BENEFICIARIES
The Jal Nigam (UP State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
3.01      The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be transferred by GOT
to GUP as part of the Plan resources allocation (para 2.09). LIC would
lend direct to the Niigam (para 4.19). IDA will have (i) a Credit Agreement
with GOI; (ii) an Agreement with GUP whereby CUP will        tn  tc l*'>hm
the necessary loans and grants to the Nigam and guarantee the Nigam and Jal
Sansthans' performances; (iii) a Project Agreement with the Nigam; and (iv)
an Agreement with LIC on disbursements and supervision procedures. The
Nigam will use the loans and grants to forn a Sector Loans Fund (para 6.05)
and will enter into agreements to on-lend funds for all sub-projects to Jal
Sansthans on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA for not exceeding 25
years (para 6.07).
3.02      The Nigam (Annex 4) has been formed from the LSGED staff, organi-
zation and facilities. As an autonomous Corporation, with a Board having
the Secretary of Local Self Government as its first Chairman, the Nigam's
functions include promoting and ensuring the efficient provision of water
supply and sewerage systems in UP, and in particular advising GUP on sector
policy and monitoring and advising Jal Sansthans and all local bodies having
water supply and/or sewerage systems. Should Jal Sansthans fail to perform
their duties, the Nigam would take over and operate their systems, and return
these to the Jal Sansthans when their satisfactory future operation is assured.
o."'^ 'Aia"'m Tri1! have distinctive short/medium term and long term
roles.  Jal Sansthans will be established in a phased program over 10-15
years, but until they are capable of carrying out their powers and duties,
the Nigam will assist in their formation and execute certain functions on
their behalf. These will include the design and construction of projects,
the operation of systems where local capability or capacity is deficient,
ti   Throughout this report, the term 'Regional Jal Sansthan (RJS)' is used
to denote that these Jal Sansthans cover a wide area, having a nunmier
of urban and rural water supply systems and sub-projects. in contrast
to the Jal Sansthans in the KAVAL towns which operate a city's water
stupply and sewerage systems.



-8-
and the provision of various advisory services. When Jal Sansthans can per-
form efficiently, the Nigam will revert to its primary role as the sector's
monitoring, financing and regulatory agency. This development period is
likely to last about 15 years, because the initial pool of trained staff
available from LSGED is only adequate to meet the needs of the Nigam, and
a few Jal Sansthans. The experience obtained in establishing the first Jal
Sansthans, combined with benefits from a training program for new and
existing staff at all levels should enable the Nigam to plan and imple-
ment the establishment of Jal Sansthans in other parts of the State.
3.04      An important innovative feature of the Nigam is its role as sector
financing agency. In the absence of planned fiscal or economic policies for
the sector (para 6.02), and faced with an increasing scarcity of resources,
GUP will use the Nigam to review and control the sector's resources allocation
and utilization. The Nigam will receive all funds from all sources external
to the sector. Jal Sansthans will not be able to obtain funds, other than
of their own generation, from any source other than the Nigam. The Nigam
has powers to borrow from national and international institutions, with
repayments guaranteed by GUP. The Nigam's Loans Fund (Annex 4) will oper-
ate as a development bank, using borrowings to finance Jal Sansthans and
other local bodies' water supply and sewerage schemes at rates and on terms
appropriate to each authority's financial capacity.
-A.nr,    The chief executive of the Nigam is the Managing Director, who
was previously the Chief Engineer of LSGED. He is a qualified and capable
officer, with excellent managerial capabilities. He will be assisted by
a Finance Director. The Nigam will consist of engineering, accounting,
personnel and administrative/secretarial divisions, with a project appraisal
unit directly responsible to the Managing Director. The Nigam has agreed to
give IDA an opportunity to review and comment on the qualifications and expe-
rience required for the posts of Managing Director and Finance Director of
the Nigam and would inform IDA before future appointments are made to these
posts. The Nigamis management center is in the UP State capital, Lucknow,
and there are currently twenty-one regional offices responsible for (i)
design and construction; (ii) inspection of water authorities or undertak-
ings; and (iii) where necessary, operation and maintenance of local systems
which have temporarily to be operated by the Nigam. Each of the regional
offices has one or more engineering design and construction groups (circles)
with support services, including accounting, under Superintending Engineers,
who have considerable local autonomy. Sector financial management, project
appraisal, and all advisory services will be based in Lucknow, unless any
decentralization is subsequently recommended by consultants. Only limited
additional technical expertise, particularly specialists in water treatment
will be needed, but management, accounting, financial and tariff consultants,
will be necessary for at least three years to ensure rapid and orderly devel-
opment of the new institutions. These consultants will be engaged by the
Nigam on or before January 1, 1976, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, to (i) recommend and install management and organization systems for
the Nigam, the first three RJSs and the KAVAL Jal Sansthans; (ii) review
and recommend on the financial and resources generation capacity of Jal



- 9 -
Sansthans, on which on-lending rates and terms of loans would be recommended
(para 3.04). The review would include preparation of tariff studies and
revenue collection systems; (iii) assist in the valuation of all assets and
inventories as at date of formation of the Nigam and Jal Sansthans, with
schedules of condition of the waterworks and sewerage systems in the Jal
Sansthans as at date of formation; and (iv) assist in the planning, design
and procurement of water treatment plants.
3.06      During the next few years, the size of the Nigam's staff will vary
as personnel are transferred, or seconded, to form or to assist the Jal
Sansthans. The initial Nigam establishment will be about 6,000 personnel.
No recruitment problems are expected, but the Nigam will respond to recom-
mendations of management consultants (para 3.05) and ensure that its staffing
is not excessive. GUP has agreed that (i) it will take all necessary steps
to ensure that the Nigam and Jal Sansthans will hire qualified staff in suf-
ficient numbers to carry out the proposed investment program including
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and for operations and mainte-
nance of their systems; (ii) if GUP requires the Nigam or Jal Sansthans to
employ staff in excess of agreed hiring schedules, GUP will finance their
employment; and (iii) material modifications will not be made in the agreed
structure and organization of the Nigam and Jal Sansthans (para 3.05) without
consultation with IDA. There have been few opportunities for the UP engineers
to obtain adequate in-depth training and experience in the sector, because
LSGED was responsible only for project design and construction supervision
while local bodies' staff only operated and maintained water supply and
sewerage systems - the staffs could not be interchanged due to differing
employment conditions. The sector's staff will now belong to one cadre,
and in-depth training schemes, particularly for management, and for opera-
tions and maintenance will be necessary. To advise and assist in imple-
menting training schemes for the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans, consultants
will be employed by the Nigam by January 1, 1976, on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
The Beneficiaries
3.07      GUP have selected as the first regional Jal Sansthans, the regions
which (i) suffer the greatest water scarcities or hardships in the State;
(ii) have areas where below average per capita incomes exist; and (iii)
have water-borne diseases considerably above the UP average (paras 2.04,
2.05). However other areas could be selected provided GUP creates suitable
Jal Sansthans and the sub-projects have acceptable priorities and justifi-
cation (para 4.06). To improve major urban systems and to generate increased
local resources, five Jal Sansthans based on the water supply and sewerage
departments in KAVAL towns will be formed to administer the water supply and
sewerage services within the areas of the respective municipal boundaries
(Annex 5). Before disbursements are made from the Credit or LIC loan in
respect of any sub-project to be financed therefrom, three basic conditions
must be fulfilled. These are (i) GUP will declare any area of GUP where
sub-projects are to be constructed to be within the area of a Jal Sansthan;
(ii) each Jal Sansthan will enter into an agreement to take over all assets



- 10 -
constructed by the Nigam on behalf of the Jal Sansthan, and will accept
responsibility for debt service on loans made by the Nigam to meet the
cost of sub-project construction; and (iii) the Nigam will have completed
a technical report on the sub-project and obtained the approval of IDA and
LIC thereto (para 4.09). Assurances were given that the responsible author-
ities will complete these steps, and that agreements between the Nigam and
Jal Sansthans will be in a form acceptable to IDA.
Regional Jal Sansthans
3.08      The RJSs (Annex 5) will be autonomous local bodies whose mandatory
functions are, inter alia, to promote and operate efficient systems of water
supply and, where feasible, sewerage, sewage treatment and disposal, and
sanitation and to establish or take over, construct, reorganize, operate
and maintain those facilities in their areas of jurisdiction. Each RJS will
be controlled by a Board with a GUP-appointed Chairman and General Manager.
GUP has promulgated the establishment of Kumaon RJS and Garhwal RJS from
October 2, 1975 and it is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit that the Bundelkhand RJS will be promulgated by GUP to be established
not later than January 1, 1976. Bundelkhand RJS headquarters will be at
Jhansi and will serve about 4.3 million people in about 4,500 towns and
villages. The Kumaon RJS will be at Nainital and will serve 1.7 million
people in about 5,500 towns and villages. The Garhwal RJS will be at Pauri,
serving 1.6 million people in about 6,000 towns and villages. RJS organi-
zation will be on typical public utility lines, having engineering, finance
and accounting, administrative and consumer service divisions, each of which
will have sub-divisions in the various district centers under district man-
agers. RJSs' staffs will be initially formed from existing staff of local
bodies' water systems and the Nigam's staff. Numbers will be dependent on
the final organization established by the Nigam and management consultants
(para 3.05), but each RJS is expected to have about 1,000 personnel, which
will increase as additional responsibilities are assumed and taken over from
the Nigam.
3.09      The first phase of establishment of each RJS will be to take over
all existing facilities, which exist mostly in the urban areas; prepare
schedules of condition of assets; improve operations and install main-
tenance systems. Tariffs, as well as accounting, billing and collection
systems will have to be designed and implemented (paras 3.05 and 3.06).
The Nigam will be constructing new rural systems (the sub-projects) during
1975-79 and handing these over on completion to the RJS, which will make
arrangements with the Nigam for their operation and maintenance, and pre-
paring villagers to receive the new systems through educational programs
in water use and hygiene.
KAVAL Towns Jal Sansthans
3.10      The organization of these Jal Sansthans will be based on existing
water supply and sewerage departments, and will be similar to RJSs, although
on a smaller scale, with the Municipal Corporation as the controlling body.



- 11 -
An engineer/manager will be responsible for engineering, administrative ane
consumer affairs, and finance divisions. A water works engineer and an addi-
tional chief accountant for water supply and sewerage are to be appointed.
The Nigam will assist in reorganization and will supply senior staff, or
consultants, primarily to expedite improved operations and maintenance, and
to prepare the schedules of condition and of valuations of assets as at date
of formation as a Jal Sansthan (paras 3.05 and 3.06).
3.11      The KAVAL towns have the largest and some of the better operated
water supply systems in UP. In these towns there has been a bias towards
employing electrical and mechanical .engineers for the senior water works
engineers' posts. Considerable efforts have been made to maintain pumping
capacity, often by ingenious methods, but water treatment and distribution
systems have fallen well below acceptable standards. Unaccounted-for water
averages over 50%, due to high leakage rates, use of about 6,700 standpipes,
and wastage. Under 50% of all connections are metered, and only about 40%
of the meters are working.
3.12      As a result of these shortcomings the per capita availability is
only about 90 1/cd. This could be improved substantially by improved leak
detection and waste prevention measures, but new investments will be neces-
sary to increase the average availability to about 180 1/cd, which would
still be a modest quantity for cities of this size and economic activity.
Comparable figures for Singapore and Bangkok are 230 1/cd and 300 1/cd
respectively.
3.13      Although the first sewerage systems in these cities are over
80 years old, there have been very little extensions in that time. The
centers of the cities are sewered, but many sewers have been blocked for
years. Systematic clearing of many sewers is now in progress, but extensive
leakage exists and major rehabilitation, with substantial extensions, are
required. The cities screen all sewage and sell it for irrigation purposes
on adjacent sewage farms, which have provided the only significant source
of revenue for this service for many years. This method of sewage disposal
is questionable because of possible dangers to the health of agricultural
workers and food consumers. Long-term proposals exist for sewage treatment
plants including greater use of oxidation ponds. However, these require-
ments, with sewerage system improvements, have a low priority for scarce
resources, and water supply improvements in these cities should receive
first attention.
Accounts and Audit
3.14      Governmental-type accounting will not be used by the Nigam and
Jal Sansthans. Instead, all authorities will use the accruals basis and
Jal Sansthans will operate commercial accounting. The KAVAL towns munici-
palities will establish water supply and sewerage funds for their Jal
Sansthans. These funds will be separate from other municipal financial
activities and subsidization of water sup py and sewerage from other muni-
cipal revenues or vice-versa will no longer be admissible. GUP has agreed



- 12 -
that Accounts Regulations for Jal Sansthans will be provided to IDA for re-
view and comment at drafting stage, and will be brought into force within
three months of the formation of a Jal Sansthan. Assurances were also
obtained that audits of the accounts and financial statements of the Nigam
and Jal Sansthans, acceptable to IDA, will be carried out, and that copies
of such audited statements will be available to IDA not later than nine months
after the close of the fiscal year to which they relate. This is a longer
period than normal, because of additional time required to review the activ-
ities of the many sub-divisions in Jal Sansthans and the Nigam. However,
the Nigam would regularly review quarterly unaudited reports of the sector's
financial activities to ensure continuous satisfactory performlances. Copies
of such reports will be available for IDA review.
Other Local Bodies' Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
- . 1% 5  Tn tho remainder of UP, existing local bodies would continue for
some years to be responsible for their systems, with the Nigam acting as
GUP's financial monitoring and regulatory agency. Many of the current
shortcomings would continue, but where the Nigam executes schemes outside
the proposed project, it would obtain reforms on the lines proposed for
the eight Jal Sansthans. Until a local body's water supply system is
declared to be part of a Jal Sansthan by GUP, major improvements will not
be feasible under the new legislation, but it is open to a local body to
ask GUP to create a Jal Sansthan and bring their systems within the new
law.
4. THE PROJECT AND SUB-PROJECTS
The Project
4.01      The proposed Rs 60 crores (US$75 million equivalent) project is
primarily designed to promote the first phase (1975-81) reorganization of
the water supply and sewerage sector in UP, by encouraging the establishment
of the Nigam and eight Jal Sansthans.  The sub-projects to be executed by
the Jal Nigam for the Jal Sansthans in the period 1975-79 consist of (i) water
supply scheme improvements costing about Rs 27.4 crores (US$34.2 million
equivalent) to provide adequate water supplies for about 5 million people in
the KAVAL towns; (ii) improvements and extensions to these towns' sewerage
systems costing about Rs 6.8 crores (US$8.5 million equivalent); and (iii)
rural water supply schemes costing about Rs 23.4 crores (US$29.3 million
equivalent) in selected areas of Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal Jal Sanathans
to meet the needs of about 1.2 million people in 2,050 villages. The total
cost of civil works, equipment, materials, engineering and contingencies for
these water supply and sewerage works is Rs 55.1 crores (US$68.9 million
equivalent) (para 4.11). The Nigam will finance the construction by loans
and grants from GUP and loans from LIC. Interest on these loans during
construction is estimated at Rs 2.5 crores (US$3.1 million equivalent) and
this interest charge will be added to construction costs by the Nigam when
computing the total value of assets and loans for purposes of the agreements



- 13 -
with the Jal Sansthans (para 3.07). The forecast total cost of all sub-projects
is therefore Rs 57.6 crores (US$72 million equivalent). In addition, the
project includes purchase of specialized equipment, such as drilling rigs,
advisory services and training at a cost of Rs 2.4 crores (US$3.0 million
equivalent).
Sub-Projects
4.02      To facilitate project management and appraisal, the project will
be divided into sub-projects. Water supply schemes, particularly the 1,000
rural schemes will be grouped into about 300 sub-projects. Each scheme is
a separate, independent water supply system, designed to supply a group of
villages having highest priority based on hardship and scarcity factors, or
where the incidence of water-borne diseases is above average. These schemes
are being grouped into appropriate-sized sub-projects on the basis of such
features as commonality of water sources, status of final designs, and pro-
curement requirements, particularly grouping of civil works contracts. The
final size of each sub-project will be determined by the Nigam and will be
fully defined in the Nigam's technical reports (para 4.09). Detailed descrip-
tion of the water supply and sewerage schemes and probable sub-projects are
in Annexes 2 and 3.
4.03      All the rural water supply schemes (Annex 2) will have piped water,
many with pumping stations and storage, and a number with treatment works.
The capacity of the schemes, which will serve village populations in the
range of 250 to 5,000, will vary from one 1/sec to 150 1/sec. The supply
will be provided through standpipes and house connections. One standpipe
will serve about 200 persons, and house connections 1/ although limited in
number initially, are expected to increase steadily some two to three years
after introduction of supplies, if the experience of similar installations
in UP is repeated. Water consumption could vary from under 50 1/cd to
90 1/cd and designs are based on an average of 70 1/cd. Sub-project costs
could range from Rs 10 lakhs (US$125,000 equivalent) to Rs 3 crores (US$4
million equivalent), but the cost for one village could be as low as Rs one
lakh (US$12,500 equivalent). Based on projected populations, the average
per capita cost is Rs 210 (US$26 equivalent), in the range Rs 130 (US$16
equivalent) to Rs 370 (US$46 equivalent).
4.04      The sub-projects for the KAVAL towns (Annex 3) will provide for
the extension of existing surface water sources and further development of
groundwater supplies. Existing water treatment works will be uprated and
extended to provide additional capacity. Water distribution systems will
be extended concurrently with major leak detection and waste prevention
1/ The costs of house connections are not included in the project; these
would be paid for by the consumers concerned.



- 14 -
programs. The maximum daily domestic water consumption is projected at
225 1/cd. The average capital cost per capita is Rs 215 (US$27 equivalent).
Existing sewerage systems will be improved, and where feasible, extended
into areas presently unsewered. These proposals will be based on master
plans and feasibility studies which have been prepared by LSGED for each
of the five KAVAL towns. Some detailed designs are completed, but others
are in various stages of completion.  The appraisal mission's review of
the master plans, feasibility reports and available designs indicates a
high level of engineering competence in LSGED.
4.05      At the time of IDA appraisal, LSGED had prepared sub-projects -
rural schemes for the RJSs areas, and water supply and sewerage schemes for
the KAVAL towns, valued at over Rs 90 crores (US$112 million equivalent)
i.e. some rs 32 crores (US$40 million equivalent) additional to the sub-
projects included in the proposed project. These additional sub-projects
cannot be financed because of insufficient resources, but most would be
adequate substitutes for any sub-projects which may be found to be ineli-
gible for IDA financing after review of the Nigam's technical reports
(para 4.09).
Sub-Projects Justification
4.06      Approval to sub-project financing by IDA from the proposed Credit
would be primarily based on sub-project justification. Nigam technical
reports (para 4.09) -will contain project data and justification of each
sub-project, similar in detail to those contained in IDA water supply proj-
ects appraisal reports. Annex 6 demonstrates the overall population and
water demand forecasts for the areas where sub-projects will be constructed,
together with the Nigam's design criteria, which are satisfactory. Using
these as a base, the Nigam will establish related criteria which would be
reviewed by IDA when a Jal Sansthan proposes construction of a sub-project.
A. n-7    FP^T- ul -ni-rrojects, the criteria would include (i) water
demand analysis, and any sewerage systems requirements, with justification
of proposals for meeting these forecasts; (ii) least cost solutions; (iii)
satisfactory internal financial rate of return; (iv) satisfactory imple-
mentation of any institutional changes by the concerned water authority
recommended by the Nigam; and (v) satisfactory forecasts of financial per-
formance, including pricing policies by the water authority (para 6.17).
4.08      For rural sub-projects, the criteria in para 4.07 would be adopted
to the extent feasible. In addition, evidence would be required that the
sub-project is in a scarcity area or a hardship area (Annex 2, paras 2 and
3). Potential health benefits would be shown against a background of exist-
ing statistics for water-borne diseases in the sub-project area. To supple-
ment this data, the Nigam would cooperate with GUP Director of Health Serv-
ices to conduct health surveys in selected sub-project areas before, during,
and up to three years after construction (para 2.04). A rural sub-project
appraisal would also be required to show the justification for the proposed
levels of charging, taking into consideration annual per capita income of a



- 15 -
sub-project area, and undertakings by the villagers to meet a Jal Sansthan's
recommended charges. In project areas where annual per capita incomes are
less than Rs 300 (US$37.5 equivalent) at 1960/61 prices 1/, only nominal
charges may be levied and operations and maintenance expenditures will be
subsidized by other systems, or where necessary by GUP through the Nigam.
The Nigam has given assurances that the technical report for a sub-project
will contain a statement from the Jal Sansthan, showing the proposed taxes
and charges which will be levied on the beneficiaries.
Sub-Projects Appraisal
4.09      Because of the large number of sub-projects involved it was not
possible to appraise each and every one in detail, but they were reviewed
to ensure their basic concepts were likely to justify their inclusion. The
Nigam will be responsible for preparation of detailed technical reports and
supervision of all sub-projects (paras 3.05 and 3.06). Its appraisal unit
will continuously review groups of sub-projects and the Jal Sansthans in
whose area they will be constructed. About fifteen technical reports are
expected from 1975 through 1977. Technical reports for each Jal Sansthan
(Annex 7) with supporting applications for allocation of the requisite pro-
portion of the proposed Credit or LIC loan will be sent to IDA, who will
have 40 days to review the report and application. The Nigam would proceed
with procurement after this time unless IDA or LIC objected to any sub-proj-
ect or to the actual or forecast performance of the Jal Sansthan concerned.
Approval of funds allocation for disbursement, following IDA acceptance of
technical reports, would relate solely to these schemes in the technical
reports and would authorize (i) subsequent IDA disbursements from the pro-
posed Credit against approved expenditures thereon less any advance payments
for goods and materials (para 4.16); and (ii) LIC loan allocations (para
4.19). Review of sub-projects by IDA staff would be limited to approval
of technical reports. Field visits will be undertaken as necessary before
approval of complex sub-projects and for supervision of selected sub-projects.
These arrangements are satisfactory, and should be adequate to ensure that
technically sound, least cost sub-projects are financed under the Credit.
4.10      This project is likely to require considerably more IDA supervi-
sion than a normal water supply project, particularly in the first two years
(Annex 8). IDA will supervise the project on behalf of LIC also, whose staff
will be invited to join in these activities. Current estimates are that 70
man/weeks per year may be needed as compared to about 28 man/weeks for other
water supply projects in the region. Primary emphasis would be on efficient
establishment of the Nigam and the Jal Sansthans, and on the training of
staffs at all levels in the new bodies. An important objective is to en-
courage the Nigam's appraisal team to attain performance standards which
will minimize or eliminate IDA, LIC, or other lending agencies' review of
their appraisals of future projects.
1/   1960-61 is the base year for GUP economic calculations and most local
indices.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
4.11      At appraisal, GUP asked IDA to consider assisting in the financing
of sub-projects for urban and rural water supplies, and urban sewerage
schemes, costing Rs 61.2 crores (US$76.4 million equivalent). These are
set out in Annex 9 and include civil works, equipment and materials, and
engineering components, plus physical and price contingencies. After
examining GUP's commitments to the entire sector in the Draft Fifth Plan
(para 2.09), it became evident that the project size could not exceed
Rs 60 crores (US$75 million equivalent). This total included provisions
for Rs 2.4 crores (US$3 million equivalent) for specialized equipment and
consulting services for the Nigam and Jal Sansthans, and for funding Rs 2.5
crores (USS3.1 million equivalent) which the Nigam will require to finance
interest during construction of sub-projects. A summary of the project cost
estimate follows:



- 17 -
Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total   %
Rs Crores             ---US$ million equivalent---
Rural Schemes
Water Supply
Civil Works         6.0        -        6.0       7.5        -        7.5    11
Equipment &
Materials          5.3       2.1       7.4       6.7       2.6       9.3    13
11.3      2.1      13.4       14.2       2.6     16.8    24
KAVAL Towns
Water Supply
Civil Works         5.4        -        5.4       6.7        -        6.7      9
Equipment &
Materials          7.4       2.9      10.3        9.3      3.6      12.9    18
12.8      2.9      15.7       16.0       3.6     19.6    27
Sewerage
Civil Works          2.3        -        2.3        2.9       -        2.9      4
Equipment &
Materials           1.2       0.4       1.6        1.5      0.5       2.0      3
3.5      0.4       3.9        4.4       0.5      4.9      7
Engineering            5.3        _        5.3        6.6       _        6.6      9
Sub-total        32.9       5.4     38.3       41.2       6.7      47.9    67
Contingencies
Physical             4.9       0.9       5.8        6.2      1.1       7.3    10
Price                9.2       1.8      11.0       11.5      2.2      13.7    19
14.1      2.7      16.8       17.7       3.3     21.0    29
Total of
Package of
Sub-projects    47.0        8.1     55.1       58.9      10.0      68.9    96
Specialized equip-
ment, Consulting
Services and
Training             1.6       0.8       2.4        2.0      1.0       3.0     4
TOTAL            48.6       8.9     57.5/i    60.9       11.0      71.g/  100
/a   GUP will provide loans of Rs 2.5 crores (US$3.1 million equivalent) to
enable the Nigam to finance interest during construction. The total
cost of the project to be incurred by the Nigam, is Rs 60 crores (US$75
million equivalent) - see para 4.01.



- 18 -
4.12      These costs are January 1975 prices, using data from 1974 contracts.
About 40% of the estimated costs are based on final designs and 60% on pre-
liminary designs. Physical contingencies are 15% average on basic costs of
civil works, equipment and materials, and engineering. Price contingencies,
which average 25% on basic costs and physical contingencies, are explained
in detail in Annex 9, Table 1. Should these contingencies prove inadequate
or excessive, the contents of the basic package can be adjusted by exclusion
or inclusion of approved sub-projects from the larger package (para 4.11) to
complete the project.
4.13      The preliminary and final designs are of good quality, and little
revision is anticipated except for specialized features such as water treat-
ment works for which recommendations for improvements have been made by IDA
(para 3.05). The costs of engineering and the Nigam administration have
been estimated at the LSGED charging rate of 16% of the cost of schemes,
but these fees will be reviewed as the Nigam develops accounting and cost-
ing systems. The latter will be essential to enable the Nigam to maintain
effective control and regular reporting to IDA on its construction opera-
tions. Assurances have been obtained that the Nigam will (i) construct
and maintain costing systems to the satisfaction of IDA; (ii) review its
charges and recoveries annually for engineering and advisory services to
Jal Sansthans; (iii) provide IDA with a summary of these cost accounts not
later than three months after the close of a fiscal year commencing with
the year 1975/76; and (iv) provide IDA with forecasts of charges to Jal
Sansthans and recoveries for each fiscal year, commencing 1977/78, not
later than four months before the commencement of such year.
Amount of IDA Credit
4.14      The credit of US$40 million will finance about 56% of the
US$71.9 million equivalent package of works and services shown in para
4.11. This package, with interest during construction of about US$3.1
million equivalent, forms the total project of US$75 million equivalent.
About US$11 million equivalent, or 28% of the Credit will be used to fi-
nance direct and indirect foreign exchange expenditures. The balance of
US$29 million, or 72% of the Credit, will finance local currency expendi-
tures on civil works, equipment and materials, consultant services and
training, but not interest during construction.
Procurement
4.15      Contracts for about US$16 million equivalent of equipment and
materials will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines. A 15% margin of preference, or customs
duty, whichever is lower, is proposed to be granted to local manufacturers
of equipment and materials when evaluating bids. After grouping of civil
works, there will be about 300 contracts totalling about Rs 20 crores
(US$25 million equivalent). This large number is because of the widely
dispersed sites in the three RJSs, whose combined areas total about 80,000
km2, and letting of contracts over three construction seasons. It is not



- 19 -
practical to group the civil works contracts in the five KAVAL towns' sub-
projects. The largest of these contracts is unlikely to exceed US$3 mil-
lion equivalent and would not interest foreign contractors. Civil works
may include works by force account labor, but assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Nigam will not employ force account for the civil
works component exceeding Rs 10 lakhs (US$125,000 equivalent) of any sub-
project, without obtaining prior agreement of IDA. Contracts totalling
Rs 14 crores (US$18 million equivalent) for equipment and materials would
be either of small sizes and unattractive to foreign suppliers, or unsuita-
ble for international competitive bidding by reasons of high transportation
costs, and/or high damage risk e.g., asbestos cement pipes. These equipment
and material contracts, with the civil works contracts, would be awarded on
the basis of GUP procedures for local competitive bidding which are accepta-
ble to IDA.
4.16      The Nigam aims to achieve economies by bulk purchasing of equip-
ment and materials for groups of sub-projects. The first technical reports
are under preparation but it is unlikely that sufficient sub-projects will
be approved by October-November, 1975 to permit the Nigam to make large-
scale purchases of equipment and materials, particularly of foreign origin
for use in the 1975/76 construction program. To overcome this difficulty
and to encourage the Nigam to achieve its objective, it is proposed that
notwithstanding the requirements of para 4.09, after the first sub-project
has been approved by IDA, disbursements may be made in respect of foreign
expenditures until June 30, 1976, in aggregate not exceeding US$2 million
equivalent, for sub-projects which may not have received IDA approval.
However, disbursements will not be made for such equipment and material
purchases until the Nigam has provided IDA with a list of such goods and
the sub-projects in which they will be incorporated. Subsequently the
Nigam will provide IDA with proof of such incorporation. If any sub-proj-
ects in which these goods are used, should not be approved by IDA, the
equivalent expenditures would be excluded from subsequent IDA disburse-
ments. During negotiations, assurances were received from the Nigam that
adequate records will be kept, and IDA will be provided with adequate proof
of use of these advance purchases of goods.
4.17      Consulting and training services totaling about 300 man/months
would be provided by international and locally recruited consultants who
would be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras 3.05
and 3.06). Engineering services provided by the Nigam's staff, will not
be financed from the Credit.  In order that the Nigam can commence essen-
tial studies it is recommended that retroactive financing from June 18,
1975, not exceeding US$0.5 million for consulting services should be author-
ized from the Credit.
Disbursement
4.18      A quarterly disbursement forecast is shown in Annex 10.  It is
proposed to finance from the proposed Credit (i) 100% of the approved CIF
costs of imported equipment and materials, and of consulting services and
training based outside India; and (ii) 60% of approved costs of civil works,



- 20 -
and approved ex-factory costs of all other equipment and materials, con-
sulting services and training.
4.19      LIC will finance a proportion of the local costs of (i) civil
works; (ii) the ex-factory cost of equipment and materials; (iii) consult-
ing services; and (iv) training expenditures. This proportion will probably
be about 36% of these costs, after LIC has made an initial advance of Rs 1.8
crores (US$2.0 million equivalent) to provide the Nigam with working capital.
At negotiations LIC agreed to make available to the Nigam a loan of Rs 18
crores (US$22.5 million equivalent) for 25 years with three years' grace on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Interest during the disbursement
period of the LIC loan would be 7-3/4% per annum, or such other rate as may
be prevailing for LIC loans at the time of withdrawal of each instalment;
and an average rate of interest would be charged on the total loan after
disbursement of the final instalment.
Sub-Projects Design and Construction
4.20      The engineering division of the Nigam (Annex 4) will be responsible
for planning, design, procurement, bid evaluation, and supervision of con-
struction of sub-projects. Adequate high-calibre staff are available for
this work, but will be supplemented by technical consultants for specialized
features such as water treatment works (para 3.05). The program covers a
design and construction period from October 1975 through March 1979 (end
of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period), although individual sub-projects have
design and construction periods ranging from a few months to about three
years. An outline schedule of the program is given in Annex 2, Chart 9306.
Based on the past performance of LSGED, the potential capacities of the
Nigam's engineering staff and the local contracting industry, the program
appears realistic.
5.  JUSTIFICATION
5.01      A major objective of the project is to develop the institutional
capability and the financial policies and procedures needed to deal with the
problems of providing basic water supply and sewerage services to millions
of people. Compared with the Bank's borrowers, UP State in India, with about
95 million people, is third largest in population size (excluding India),
Brazil and Indonesia being the other two. About 140 million people will
need water supply, sanitation and other basic services in UP by 1991. Only
about a third of UP's present population has access to safe water supplies.
The present rate of investment in the sector is not even sufficient to keep
pace with the annual growth in population. Therefore, there are dangers of
large scale outbreaks of waterborne diseases and increasing hardship due to
lack of drinking water for large masses of people. Rapid coverage of the
entire population is not feasible but even modest increases in percentage
of population covered are unlikely until basic changes are made in the
financing of projects in this sector. The continuation of tariffs which



- 21 -
do not even cover operation and maintenance costs means that the State's
financial burden on account of this sector will increase every year, as
long as it continues the financing of water and sewerage works through its
budget allocations without any serious attempt at even partial recovery of
capital. In a drive to place the sector on a self-supporting basis the
State Government has taken the first significant step in establishing the
Nigam (para 3.02) and the Jal Sansthans (para 3.07). A major and specific
goal of the proposed credit is to assist in the development of these institu-
tions.
5.02      As a new institution, the Nigam will have to organize its staff,
train them and develop policies and procedures to fulfill its role as the
development finance agency for this sector. The Association has already
assisted through its preappraisal and appraisal missions, in developing
the concepts behind the establishment of these institutions and the law
establishing them. The Association can play a crucial role in the future
development of these institutions, their policies and procedures.
5.03      The project will help to impose financial discipline and improve
financial management of the sector. Although the funds allocated for the
sector in the five year plans (para 6.03) are small in relation to the
needs, the amounts involved are large. The multiple channels through
which these funds are provided and the accounting systems used, make it
difficult to assess the efficiency of overall sector investments. The pro-
posed project will help to address this issue, because it approaches the
sector as a whole. In addition, the accounting systems will be changed to
enable determination of full costs. Existing pricing policies will be
reviewed and adjusted to increase the revenues of the water supply and
sewerage operations and to distribute the burden on the consumers more
equitably.
5.04      The long range objective of the government is to place all water
supply and sewerage systems on a self-supporting basis. As shown in Annex 11,
the mission has calculated that in the period of the Fourth Plan (1969-1974),
the total subsidy to the water supply and sewerage sector in UP has totaled
Rs 23.4 crores (US$29.2 million equivalent), of which Rs 13.9 crores (US$17.4
million equivalent) was on capital account and Rs 8.5 crores (US$10.6 million
equivalent) on current account. Given the investment program presently en-
visaged, the amount of annual subsidy in the next five years would rise by
140%, and reach Rs 12.8 crores (US$16.0 million equivalent) in 1978/79.
Implementation of the project would aim at eliminating subsidies in the
RJSs (although still allowing for a possible cross-subsidization between
low-income rural areas and higher-income towns), and at gradually gener-
ating funds for investment in the KAVAL towns. Improved financial and
economic management will also make it possible to lay down criteria to be
used in subsidizing the low-income areas, possibly on the basis of the con-
sumer's ability to pay for water service. For many years to come a number
of systems especially in the rural and economically backward areas of the
State will not be in a position to meet the objective. To assist such
systems, a number of urban and rural water supplies in contiguous areas



- 22 -
are to be grouped together to form regional Jal Sansthans such as the ones
included in the project. Steps will be taken to ensure the financial sub-
sidy from the richer (urban) to the poorer (rural) areas. This is an
important feature which the project is designed to promote.
5.05      Limited financial resources spread over a number of projects and
slow and uncertain release of funds have in the past tended to lead to un-
economic construction. The proposed project would help to provide the Nigam
with assured sources and amounts of funding over a period of years for the
agreed development program. This should encourage more efficient planning
and construction of the projects.
5.06      The sub-projects have been selected with two objectives.  The first
is to construct facilities to meet the water demand in the KAVAL towns and
expand their sewerage systems to cover selected unserved areas. Since the
KAVAL towns are the major industrial centers of the State, the implication
of not improving the facilities to meet demand could be to adversely affect
the industrial development in these areas. The second objective is to alle-
viate the drinking water problem for large masses of people living in the
difficult and scarcity areas of the state. Care will be taken to ensure
that the sub-projects themselves are least-cost solutions using appropriate
discount rates. For example, the emphasis in the KAVAL towns' sub-projects has
been to modify and use existing water treatment facilities to produce addi-
tional quantities rather than construction of entirely new facilities.
Similar approaches to treatment plant design, which would emphasize the
use of local materials and resources will be adopted in all sub-projects.
Certain components, the urgency of which was not self-evident, have been
either eliminated from the sub-projects, or postponed to later stages in
the program.
5.07      The paucity of data, especially in the rural areas, makes any
quantification of the economic benefits of this project impossible. Yet,
to the extent that improved sanitation and increased water supply contri-
bute to better health and upgrading of social well-being, the project will
contribute to overall economic welfare. Given this assumption, which is
based on evidence recorded in other countries, the question of economic
justification is essentially one of project cost, composition and geographic
distribution. The considerations which led to the choice of the project
areas and the steps taken to ensure that project cost is brought down to a
minimum are indicated in para 5.06. The health survey to be conducted by
GUP, under the aegis of the project (para 2.04), will permit measurement
of the impact of the project on health improvement and, possibly help to
establish guidelines for further water supply development policy in the
State.
Project Risks
5.08      Although the establishment of the Nigam, with the eight Jal
Sansthans, is an enterprising and constructive step in trying to resolve
the complex and extensive problems of this sector, there are a number of
untested features. These include:



- 23 -
Mi) the ability of as yet unrecruited financial, administrative
and managerial staff;
(ii) the capacity of regional Jal Sansthans to operate and
maintain systems in large territories, particularly in
current circumstances of lack of consumers' education and
of their unwillingness to protect their systems; and the
potential backlog of repairs and rehabilitation of existing
systems; and
(iii) the ability of urban Jal Sansthans to effectively charge and
collect from all consumers having water supply and sewerage
connections, and to obtain satisfactory property valuations
as bases for water tax on unmetered connections (para 6.16).
5.09      Nevertheless, the Association's investment in the project is
justified because of the impact it would have on the future development
of the sector which will affect more than 100 million people. The UP
State in India was selected for this approach because of the availability
of a large and competent engineering staff which could serve as the nucleus
for developing an adequate organization for handling the sector administra-
tion, project study and design, economic evaluation, procurement, construc-
tion supervision, operations and maintenance. The alternative to this
approach would have been the Association's consideration of individual
projects. Such a traditional approach in the context of UP, with its vast
population and large number of projects, would not have made any signifi-
cant impact on sector development. In dealing with a problem of such a
large magnitude as in UP, the Association can play only a catalytic role
since it cannot provide all the financing required for implementing the
needed program. Under the circumstances the approach selected in this
project makes for the maximum impact on the sector and the most effective
utilization of IDA staff in making our contribution to the sector.
6. FINANCES
6.01      This chapter reviews the past financing policies and procedures
adopted with regard to the development and operation of water supply and
sewerage projects in UP and the new approaches that will be made as part
of the proposed project. The role of LIC as co-lender for the proposed
project is discussed. The pattern of assistance for water supply and sew-
erage schemes in the state, plan allocations, annual recurrent expenditures.
relating to water supply and sewerage in the KAVAL towns, existing water
rates and charges in these towns, financial performance from 1969-74 and
forecasts up to 1979 are all shown in Annex 11.



- 24 -
Past Performance and Present Position
6.02      While a broad policy framework for financing of water supply and
sewerage projects has existed in the State for many years, its application
in practice has been uneven.   Under this policy, water supply projects in
urban areas were to be financed through loans and those in rural areas
through grants. Grant financing was also used in respect of some sewerage
schemes. The loans and grants, although advanced to local bodies, were
channelled through LSGED. In addition, the 500 local bodies in the State
also occasionally incurred some expenditures from their own sources on minor
extensions and improvements. There are no accurate data to indicate the
total financing provided for this sector but the five year plan allocations
give a broad indication of the capital financing proposed for water supply
and sewerage projects in the State.
6.03      The information available indicates that between 1969 and 1974
approximately Rs 35 crores (US$43.7 million equivalent) were spent on
capital construction. Of this amount roughly Rs 15 (US$18.7 million
equivalent) crores were spent on rural water supply schemes. The annual
recurrent expenditures incurred by local bodies during this period in-
creased from Rs 6 crores (US$7.5 million equivalent) in 1969-70 to Rs 9
crores (US$11.2 million equivalent) in 1973-74. Present indications are
that during the Fifth Plan 1974-79 capital expenditures would rise to Rs 92
crores (US$115 million equivalent) and annual recurrent expenditures to about
Rs 20 crores (US$25 million equivalent) by 1978-79. Increases of this order
would tend to impose considerable additional burden on the financial manage-
ment of this sector which is largely lacking at present. While technical
soundness of the projects financed by grants and loans has been ensured
invariably, only cursory attention has been paid to determination of finan-
cial viability of projects. Often the repayment of loans has been irregular
and indebtedness of the local authorities has increased considerably. The
potential for levying adequate user charges has seldom been fully explored.
As a result, the water and sewerage works have failed to be revenue earning
entities. In several cases the KAVAL towns and local bodies have used muni-
cipal resources, or subventions (ways and means advances) obtained from the
State Government, as regular sources of funds to meet deficits in their
operating budgets. Subventions are normally intended as short term financing
to bridge cash flow problems, but these advances are rarely repaid. Under
the existing methods of allocation, releases of funds and maintenance of
accounts, it is virtually impossible to determine the magnitude of financial
subsidies involved in this sector. The absence of adequate financial poli-
cies and management is largely responsible for the slow rate of development
so far. One of the objectives of the proposed project is to rectify this
deficiency. For the first time all funds for the sector will be channelled
through a single state agency, i.e. the Nigam.



- 25 -
Financial Operations of the Nigam
6.04      The Nigam, as the sector development and finance agency, will re-
ceive all funds for the sector from GUP in the form of grants, subventions
and loans. The Nigam is authorized to borrow from sources other than CUP,
and it proposes to take loans from the LIC and other institutional lenders.
The Nigam will use loans and grants to finance the construction of projects
on behalf of Jal Sansthans and local bodies. Subventions from the Nigam
will assist any Jal Sansthans or local body which the Nigam considers to be
in financial difficulties, but it intends to develop a policy of encouraging
such bodies to repay these subventions. The Nigam will budget to recover its
costs of project construction and loans administration from the local bodies
which use the Nigam's services. For its work in regulating and monitoring
the sector, and acting as the operator of water systems in default by the
responsible local bodies, the Nigam will be financed from GUP annual budget
payments, which have been treated in this report as grants to the sector.
To account for these funds and demonstrate their use the Nigam will operate
three accounts or funds: (i) a Sector Development Account; (ii) a Sector
Loans Fund; and (iii) an Operations Account.
6.05      The Sector Development Account (Annex 4 Table 2) is designed to
show the net cost of the sector to GUP, excluding loans, by recording the
manner in which all CUP grants or subventions to the sector through the
Nigam are utilized by the various authorities in the sector, and the net
cost of operating the Nigam. This Account will also record transfers
between authorities in the sector, including cross-subsidization, should
this occur in the future. GUP grants, which are earmarked in the Plan for
capital expenditures will be channelled through the Development Account
to the Sector Loans Fund.  In this Fund, grants and loans raised by the Nigam,
will be combined to form a pool of loans to finance capital expenditures in
the sector. Direct grant assistance for capital works is expected to cease.
When the Nigam has completed construction and funding of an asset on behalf
of a Jal Sansthan or local body, the assets will be transferred to the Jal
Sansthan, and the cost of the assets will be treated as a loan from the
sector Loans Fund repayable on terms and conditions agreed between the Nigam
and the Jal Sansthans (para 3.07).
6.06      The Nigam will take over responsibility for all loans, including
GUP and LIC loans, made to local bodies for sector services before the
formation of the Jal Sansthans. Initially, this will consist of the water
supply and sewerage loans totaling about Rs 21 crores (US$26.2 million
equivalent). This debt, together with all subsequent loans made to all
authorities in the sector, will be repayable to lenders by the Nigam and
will be guaranteed by GUP. As at March 1975, LIC loans to the KAVAL towns
and local bodies which will be taken over by the Nigam were about Rs 1.5
crores (US$2.0 million equivalent) compared to CUP's Rs 19.5 crores (US$24.7
million equivalent). The Nigam will have the responsibility of collecting
the debt service from the RJSs and KAVAL towns, and can obtain from GUP the
power to take over water supply and sewerage services of any authority which
defaults in such payments (para 3.02).



- 26 -
6.07      The principles of Sector Loans Fund Operation including on-lending
rates and terms will be established after detailed examination of the re-
sources of the RJSs, the KAVAL towns and other local bodies by the Nigam
(para 3.05), including reviewing recommendations of tariff studies; but GUP
intends that the Nigam should use the Fund's resources and operating poli-
cies to (i) maximize generation of new funds for sector investment; and (ii)
subsidize authorities which need assistance e.g. by low interest rates. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that IDA will be invited to comment
on tariff studies and recommendations for Sector Loans Fund operation. In
addition, it was agreed that until recommendations for the Sector Loans
Fund Operations (para 3.05) are adopted by the Nigam, the lending rates for
Nigam's loans will be ti) not exceeding 11% and not less than 8% to the
KAVAL towns Jal Sansthans; (ii) not less than 3% to regional Jal Sansthans;
and (iii) not exceeding 9% and not less than 7% to all other local bodies.
All loans would be for periods not exceeding 25 years. These proposals
are intended to establish two principles: (i) that the more wealthy author-
ities, particularly in urban areas should be charged interest at rates closer
to the opportunity cost of capital and in doing so, generate additional re-
sources to subsidize poor authorities; and (ii) grants from GUP should be
used as loans funds, albeit on easy terms, to encourage consumers to make
contributions to construction costs of systems.
6.08      To complete the project, GUP gave assurances at negotiations that
(i) it will make available to the Nigam grants of Rs 18 crores (US$22.5 mil-
lion equivalent) and loans of Rs 24 crores (US$30 million equivalent) at
interest not exceeding that charged by GOI for development projects (cur-
rently about 5-3/4% per annum); (ii) the loans will be for at least 18 years
including 3 years grace; and (iii) these funds will be made available to the
Nigam in the loans/grants ratio of 4:3 as expenditures are incurred on IDA-
approved sub-projects. On the above basis, by using the on-lending terms
in para 6.07, the Nigam would be able to generate about Rs 42 crores (US$52
million equ.valent) over 25 years, in the Sector Loans Fund, for new lending
purposes. This amount would be additional to the loans and grants made
available from 1975 through 1979.
6.09      The Nigam will use an Operations Account (Annex 4 Table 1) to
record (i) costs recovered from authorities to which it provides project
design and construction supervision services, and other advisory services;
(ii) GUP financial support through grants via the Development Account to
meet the net cost of the Nigam's operations, and unrecovered costs of
operating and maintaining systems of defaulting authorities; (iii) ex-
penditures on the Nigam's staff and services; and (iv) deficits incurred
or surpluses earned as a result of the interaction of (i), (ii) and (iii)
above. GUP would budget for an annual grant for Nigam's operations, but
the Nigam would be encouraged to maximize costs recoveries from the author-
ities in the sector. The extent of any deficits or surpluses on the Devel-
opment Account would indicate the success of such a policy by GUP and the
Nigam.



- 27 -
6.10      The Nigam's financing plan for 1975/76 through 1978/79 is as
follows:
US$                                       US$
Rs     Million                           Rs      Million
Sources         Crores  Equivalent  %    Applications   Crores  Equivalent  %
GUP provi-                               Sub-projects'
sion of                                expenditures        84.5     105.6   93
initial work-
ing capital     1.6        2.0      2
GUP budget pro-
visions (grants
or subventions) 5.3        6.6      6  Advanced planning
and design work      3.9       4.8    4
CUP grants        18.0      22.5    19
GUP loans         47.9      59.9    53  Operations (net
loss)   3.4        4.2    3
LIC loans         18.0      22.5    19  Increase in
Working capital      0.1       0.2    -
Loans Fund
(net profit)    1.1        1.3     1
91.9     114.8   100                       91.9      114.8  100
The Nigam will commence operations with a GUP contribution of about Rs 7
crores (US$8.75 million equivalent) consisting of essential assets, equip-
ment and work-in-progress of LSGED, and including about Rs 1.6 crores (US$2
million equivalent) as working capital. It is a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness that GUP will have completed the transfer of Rs 1.6 crores (US$2
million equivalent) of initial working capital in cash to the Nigam. Assur-
ances were also obtained that GUP will ensure the Nigam is provided with
adequate funds to fulfill its statutory powers and duties.
Jal Sansthans' Finances
6.11      Every Jal Sansthan is required by the Ordinance (para 2.13) to
establish a Water Supply and Sewerage Fund, to which all revenues derived
from these services must be credited, and out of which only expenditures
related to these services can be paid. GUP has given assurances that Jal
Sansthans' Water Supply and Sewerage Funds will be established with adequate
working capital, including cash, to finance their operations. The Ordinance
also stipulates that a Jal Sansthan shall so regulate its rates of taxes and
charges and use the Fund in such manner as to enable it to meet the cost of
operations and maintenance, and debt service, and achieve a rate of return
on its fixed assets.
6.12      Until RJSs are established and the Nigam and management consult-
ants have advised on the most appropriate form of administration and staff-
ing, and on schedules of water supply and sewerage systems' condition (para
3.05), an accurate financial forecast will not be possible. However, fore-
casts of a typical RJS have been prepared (Annex 5) using unit costs and per



- 28 -
capita costs bases of known systems in these areas. Each RJS will be pro-
vided through the Nigam with Rs 30 to 50 lakhs (US$0.4 to 0.6 million equiv-
alent) of working capital. The first three RJSs will not be financially
viable for some years because they are taking over ill-run urban and rural
systems, including many where no serious attempt has been made so far to
recover service costs from consumers. The forecasts demonstrate Bundelkhand
RJS may need subsidies totalling Rs 1.6 crores (US$2.0 million equivalent)
through 1978/79. Nevertheless, their targets will be to attain financial
independence from Nigam subsidies. To ensure that the existing waterworks
taken over by RJSs in 1975/76 are financially viable by 1977/78, and to give
time for the new sub-projects built in 1975-79 to attain a revenue-earning
capacity, the Nigam has given assurances that each RJS will be required to
take all measures based on the recommendations of the tariff studies (para
3.05) or otherwise required (including, but not limited to the adjustment
of each RJSs taxes, fees and charges) to provide such RJS: (i) in each of
the five fiscal years between April 1977 and March 1982, revenues sufficient
to cover the annual cost of the operation and maintenance, and the debt serv-
ice related to the assets transferred to the RJS on its establishment in
1975/76; and (ii) in the fiscal year commencing April 1, 1982 and in each
subsequent fiscal year, revenues sufficient to cover the annual cost of the
operation and maintenance, and the debt service related to all assets of the
RJS.
6.13      Detailed examination of the water supply and sewerage finances of
the KAVAL towns have been made from 1971/72 through 1973/74, and forecasts
prepared from 1974/75 through 1980/81. Until the sub-projects for these
towns are defined in detail (para 4.04) in Nigam technical reports, it will
not be possible to define accurately the extent of their financial problems.
At the end of March 1975, four of the five towns were forecast to have a
combined cash deficit on these services of Rs 5.7 crores (US$7.1 million
equivalent) ranging from Rs 92 lakhs (US$1.2 million equivalent) in Varanasi
to Rs 2.3 crores (US$2.9 million equivalent) in Lucknow. These deficits have
been temporarily financed by other municipal funds, overdrafts, or GUP sub-
ventions. These deficits are unlikely to be recovered, but the KAVAL towns
Jal Sansthans will not be required to meet any cash deficits incurred up to
the date of separation of these services from other municipal services.
Water Supply and Sewerage Taxes and Charges
6.14      Although the data are not firm, evidence suggests that in 1970/71
urban consumers were spending not more than 0.05% - or RS 3.0 (US$0.40 equiv-
alent) of their total yearly per capita expenditures of Rs 526 (US$66 equiv-
alent) on water supply. Rural consumers' per capita expenditures were about
Rs 420 (US$52 equivalent) (Annex 11, Table 9). Assuming a low annual growth
rate for such expenditures based on the 1966/70 rate of 8.5% per annum, the
corresponding urban and rural per capita expenditures for 1978/79 would be
Rs 1,010 and Rs 807 (US$126 and US$100 equivalent), respectively. Annex 5,
Table 1 indicates that the 1978/79 maximum per capita revenue requirements
of the Bundelkhand RJS would be Rs 11.76 (US$1.47 equivalent) - or 1%-2% of
ann-ual per capita expenditures. If a similar percentage requirement were



- 29 -
applied to the projected 15 million urban consumers in 1978/79, this would
yield about Rs 15 crores (US$17.9 million equivalent) which would meet the
projected operations, maintenance and debt service costs of urban water
supplies in that year (Annex 11, Table 8).
6.15      The urban population, being only 14% of the whole, cannot be
expected in the long term to finance a disproportionate amount of the
sector's requirements. Consistent and meaningful increases in taxes and
rates should be possible in rural areas and could yield sufficient revenues
in the medium and long terms to meet the requirements of their part of the
sector. The estimated 1974/75 revenue yield in the UP water supply sector
is Rs 13 crores (US$16.2 million equivalent), which should be viewed against
GUP's taxation revenue yield from alcoholic drinks and liquor in 1974/75,
which is anticipated to be not less than Rs 50 crores (US$62.5 million
equivalent). The purchase price to consumers of alcoholic beverages is
probably 50% in excess of this sum i.e. about Rs 75 crores will be paid
out by consumers, and of this, about Rs 52 crores (US$65 million equiv-
alent) will probably be obtained from liquor sales in rural areas of UP.
This would indicate the potential capacity to pay for water supplies, even
in the rural areas.
6.16      The KAVAL towns derive over 70% of their revenue for water supply
from a water tax based on annual rental value of property. This tax has
been collected with other municipal property taxes, and the combined taxes
have been subject to a statutory local taxation limit of 25% of property
rental values. However, under the Ordinance, water taxes and sewerage
taxes have prescribed limits independent of other property taxes, which
should provide additonal revenue. Property values have been kept artifi-
cially low by rent controls since 1945, and water supply has had to compete
for revenues from a restricted tax source which had a low-rated base. GUP
is considering establishing a central valuation authority and has given
assurances that it will use its best endeavors to ensure equitable valua-
tion of property for tax purposes in the areas of the Jal Sansthans. How-
ever, Jal Sansthans have power under the Ordinance to establish property
valuation for purposes of water supply and sewerage taxation should the
locally ascribed values be unsatisfactory.
6.17      To meet their statutory obligations (para 6.11), forecasts show
that the KAVAL towns Jal Sanathans require immediate increases in water and
sewerage taxes and charges ranging between 60% and 120% (Annex 11, para 20
and Table 3). Thereafter, increases of not less than 15% per annum would
be necessary to continue to meet operations and maintenance expenditures,
but to meet increases in debt service and provide funds for new investments,
the taxes and charges would have to increase by about an additional 100% by
1981. Such increases may be unpopular, but if these towns are to be finan-
cially viable and to be the basis for cross-subsidization in the sector
(para 5.04) they must now be encouraged to generate steadily increasing
revenues. Assurances have been given by GUP and the Nigam that they will
cause each KAVAL Jal Sansthan to achieve the following minimum financial
rates of return on net fixed assets in operation (para 3.05), (i) 2% in



- 30 -
1977/78; (ii) 4% in 1979/80; and (iii) 6% in 1982/83. These returns are
reasonable, since the tariff increases needed to attain them can be afforded
by consumers in these towns. These targets will ensure financial viability
of the undertakings, and surpluses for future investment.
6.18      Billing and collection performances by local bodies including KAVAL
towns have long been poor. These latter towns collected 51% of recoverables
only in 1971/72 and 1972/73, and improved to 53% in 1973/74. Kanpur and
Lucknow are currently significantly improving collections by reorganizing
collection teams -- in the former town, collections have risen from 38% to
60%, proving the feasibility of taking action against consumers and indif-
ferent staffs -- but considerable and consistent improvements are necessary.
It is intended that the Nigam through its monitoring and regulatory role,
will have a direct influence on billing and collection performance by Jal
Sansthans, because the success of the sector's new fiscal policies will be
almost entirely dependent on the efficacy of these systems. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Nigam will require the Jal Sansthans
to reduce their receivables to the equivalent of not exceeding two months'
billings by March 31, 1977.
6.19      Billing and collection systems in rural areas have yet to be
finally evolved. LSGED and pilot rural projects have been successful in
making regular collections from villagers with house connections, either on
the basis of metered consumptions or fixed charges. GUP also intends that a
proportion of the rural development levy on all villagers will be allocated
to RJSs to represent standpipe users' contributions, but until the Nigam's
and their consultant's reports (para 3.05) on tariffs and collection sys-
tems are available, suitable collections systems cannot be introduced. In
practice, it may take a number of years, because experimenting with special-
ized local practices may be necessary before deciding which systems would
be the most effective to achieve the goal.
The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
6.20      The LIC, with its headquarters in Bombay, has been one of the
principal institutional lenders in India for over 17 years. Its total as-
surance business in force exceeds Rs 11,500 crores (US$14 billion equiva-
lent) with an annual income exceeding Rs 600 crores (US$750 million equiva-
lent). Loans constitute a major avenue of investment of LIC funds. As at
March 1974, It had lent Rs 750 crores (US$937 million equivalent), in the
public sector for power, housing and urban water supply schemes, of which
Rs 103 crores (US$129 million equivalent) has been loaned for water supply
schemes. In recent years LIC has endeavoured to place loans in each State
in amounts approximating to its income therefrom, but GUP has not been
successful in obtaining its proportion of loans, due in part to delays in
completing agreements between GUP and local bodies. The debt service
performance of UP local bodies has also been disappointing and, in 1974,
LIC warned that it may cease lending for urban water supply and sewerage
schemes (para 2.08), even though it had only commenced lending three years
earlier. LIC had recommended GUP to (i) act against defaulting local bodies;



- 31 -
(ii) reduce the number of borrowers (by sector reorganization); and (iii)
encourage higher water rates and charges to meet recurrent costs and debt
service. LIC therefore welcomes the current GUP initiative, and wishes
to be a co-lender with IDA in this proposed project, in order that it can
actively participate in the appraisal and supervision processes of a major
lending operation to this sector. In this way, LIC hopes to gain experience
to enable it to work with GOI in encouraging other States to adopt similar
reorganization and techniques for development of safe water supply and
sewerage systems -- thereby increasing population longevity -- and its
own investments.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations for the proposed Credit, agreement was reached
on the following points:
(a)  with GOI to make the proceeds of the Credit available to GUP
in accordance with GOI's standard arrangements for development
projects (para 3.01);
(b)  with GUP:
(i) structure, organization and staffing of the
Nigam and Jal Sansthans (para 3.06);
(ii) conditions relating to sub-projects which
should be fulfilled before IDA and LIC dis-
bursements are made (para 3.07);
(iii) introduction of accounting regulations for
Jal Sansthans (para 3.14);
(iv) audits of the Nigam and Jal Sansthans (para 3.14);
(v) providing grants of Rs 18 crores (US$22.5 million
equivalent) and loans of Rs 24 crores (US$30 mil-
lion equivalent) to the Nigam (para 6.08);
(vi) providing the Nigam with adequate funds to fulfill
its statutory powers and duties (para 6.10);
(vii) providing the Jal Sansthans with working capital
(para 6.11); and
(viii) property valuation for taxation purposes (para 6.15).
(c)  with the Nigam:
(i) reviews of qualifications and experience required
for the posts of Managing Director and Finance



- 32 -
Director of the Nigam, and informing IDA before
appointments are made thereto (para 3.05);
(ii)  employment of consultants (paras 3.05 and 3.06);
(iii) form of agreements between the Nigam and Jal
Sansthans (para 3.07);
(iv)  contents of technical reports prepared by the
Nigam (paras 3.07 and 4.08);
(v)  introduction and maintenance of costing systems
in the Nigam and provision of data to IDA (para 4.13);
(vi)  force account labor for civil works (para 4.15);
(vii) review by IDA of studies on tariffs and Loans Fund
operations, and establishment of on-lending rates
for loans by the Nigam (para 6.07);
(viii)  financial performance targets of Jal Sansthans
(paras 6.12 and 6.17);
(ix)  reduction of receivables in Jal Sansthans (para 6.18).
(d)  with LIC, to provide the Nigam with a loan of Rs 18 crores
(US$22.5 million equivalent) on terms and conditions accepta-
ble to IDA.
7.02      The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit:
(a)  the enactment of legislation to give effect to the UP
Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance 1975 by the UP
Legislative Assembly (para 2.13);
(b)  the promulgation by GUP of the establishment of the
Bundelkhand RJS not later than January 1, 1976 (para
3.08);
(c)  signing of the LIC/Nigam Agreement (para 4.19); and
(d)  the transfer by GUP of Rs 1.6 crores (US$2.0 million
equivalent) of cash as working capital to the Nigam
(para 6.10).
7.03      With the indicated assurances, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$40 million.
July 29, 1975



ANNEX I
UTSTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PEtOJECT
REPORTED CASES OF WATER-BORE  DISEASES IN PR<iJECT AREAS AIR UTTAR
PRADESH STATE FOR FIVE YEARS 1966-1970 /
Infectious              Other                   Cases per  Percentage
Population  Typhoid  Cholera Dysentery  Hepatitis   Trachoma   Enteric           TOTAL   100,000    of State
Diseases               Population  Average
Millions    ----------------------------_'000 Cases       a     s      es--- ------
PROJECT AREAS
Bundelkbsand                   1966      3.9        5.7     0.8       88.8         1.5         15.5      164.2        276.5
-4 Districts                 1967      4.0        4.5     0.2      111.6         0.9          9.1     160.6         286.9
1968     4 o        4.2      o.6      123.5         2.0         8.6      184.8         323.7
1969     4.0 o/   11.4       4.0       98.9         1.4         9.7      140.0         265.4
1970     4.1 ]/   14.0       6.o       63.8         1.1         8.0      162.4         255.3
Adjusted Annual Average 5 Years         4.o        7.9      2.3      97.2         1.4         10.1      162.7        281.6       7,040        105
Kumaon and Garhwa6i            1966      3.5       13.6     0.1      104.3         4.6         19.3      195.8        337.7
-8 Districts                 1967      3.5      10.5       -        99.5         7.8         21.8     266.9         406.5
1968     3.6        8.6       -       194.2         3.6        24.6      264.3         495.3
1969     3.7        8.2       -       129.8         3.9        20.8      360.7         523.4
1970     3.7        9.1      0.2      107.8         6.1        22.7      254.3         400.2
Annual Average Five Years               3.6       10.0     0.1      127.1         5.2         21.8      268.4        432.6      12,017        179
Five KAVAL Towns with          1966    11.6       49.3      6.7      326.5        14.5         86.9      581.6      1,065.5
Surrounding Districts       1967     11.9       44.6     2.6       47.5        18.9         79.9     676.1       1,239.7
1968    12.1-/   51.5        1.7      399.7        33.4        34.6   1,104.50       1,625.4
1969    12.5       41.4      0.5      330.6       28.8         33.7   1,031.8        1,466.8
1970    12.8  /   56.1       0.4      524.8       34.0         49.4   1,164.6        1,829.3
Adjusted Annual Awrage Five Years      12.2       48.6      2.4     399.8        25.9         56.9     911.7       1,445.3      11,847        176
Uttar Pradesh State (55 Districts)
1966    82.4      145.4    10.5   1,870.9          70.3       299.4   2,978.0        5,374.5
1967    77.7 9/  131.2       5.4   1,761.6        71.4        274.8   3,209.8        5,454.2
1968    75.5 /i  198.5       4.4   1,794.4         65.9       212.4   3,357.6        5,633.2
1969    79.1     135.6      5.3   1,294.3         58.3       242.4   3,361.5        5,097.4
1970    67.3 2   132.1       7.9   1,328.0        69.4        196.5   2,463.8        4,197.7
Adjusted Annual Average Five Years     85.3      166.6     7.5   1,791.3         75.3        271.8   3,429.3       5,741.8       6,731        100
AVERAGE AINUAL C SES PSR 100,000 POPULATION 1966-1970
Iniectious              Other
Typhoid   Cholera Dysentery   Hepatitis   Trachoma   Enteric         TOTAL
Diseases
PROJECT AREAS
Bundelkhand                                     197.5    57.5   2,430.0         35.0         252.0   4,067.5       7,040.0
Xumson and Garhwal                              277.8      2.8   3,530.5       144.4        605.5   7,455.5       12,016.5
Five KAVAL Towns with surrounding districts      398.4    19.7   3,277.0       212.3         466.4   7,472.9      l1,846.7
UTTAR PRADESH STATE                                195.3      8.8   2,100.0        88.3          38.6   4,020.3       6,731.3
/ Complete reports for all 55 Districts of the State are not available and certain data in this Table have been adjusted to enable
reasonable comparisons to be made. The adjusted data are referenced below
i 3 out of 4 Districts only reported
3/ 2 out of 4 Districts only reported
Allahabad District did not report
5/ Allahabad and Agra Districts did not report
i/50 Districts only
7/ 49 Districts only
44 Districts only
Source: Director of Medical Services, Uttar Pradesh
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
General Description of the Bundelkhand, Garhwal and Kumaon Regions
and the Rural Water Supply Sub-Projects
Basic Data
1.        All sub-projects will be the subject of separate and detailed
technical reports by the Nigam Appraisal Unit and submitted for IDA and
LIC approval prior to financing from the proposed credit and the LIC loan
(Annex 7). Tables 1 and 2 give statistical information on the Bundelkhand,
Garhwal and Kumaon Regions and on the sub-projects, and Map 11387 shows a
typical rural water supply scheme. These areas will be administered for
water supply and sewerage services by the Regional Jal Sansthans (RJSs)
which bear their title (Annex 5). The locations of the Jal Santhans are
shown in Map 11384 with Bundelkhand in the southwest of UP and Garhwal and
Kumaon in the northwest bordering Nepal and Tibet (China).
2.        The sub-projects will be piped water supply schemes and will in-
clude mainly scarcity and hardship villages, with only a few non-scarcity
villages. The latter have been included only where they easily can be
connected to groups of scarcity villages. The villages selected for these
sub-projects have been assessed by the Nigam as those where the need for
water supply is most urgent. The sub-project will be executed as shown on
implementation schedule, chart 9306 (Annex 2).
3.        Scarcity villages are defined as (a) where sources of drinking
water dry up during summers, (b) where water is available at a depth of
more than 16 meters, and (c) where water is unpalatably hard and saline.
Hardship villages have the additional definition of drinking water avail-
able only (i) at a distance of 800 m or more in hilly areas or 1600 m in
the plains; and (ii) at a height or depth of 150 m or more.
4.        The proposed grouping of the villages have been determined as
least cost solutions. Alternative water sources have been investigated
as to their locations and reliable yields. Where a river will serve as
water source for several groups of villages, alternatives as to numbers
of intakes and treatment works have been evaluated. In order to facilitate
the operation of the water works simplicity in design has been a prime
requirement.
5.        The water sources for the sub-projects are rivers, streams, im-
poundments, springs and groundwater. Sub-projects using rivers and streams
as sources will include treatment facilities for chemical dosing, settling
and rapid sand filtration. Springs and groundwater sources would require
only chlorination. In the Garhwal and Kumaon some sub-projects will benefit



AgNEX 2
Page 2
from a gravity supply, while others with big differences in altitudes will
require substantial pumping. In Bundelkhand all sub-projects will require
pumping. Both standposts and service connections will be provided in the
villages. The initial number of service connections is expected to be
small, but would increase gradually during the years.
6.        In Garhwal and Kumaon the number of villages is larger, but their
populations are generally smaller than in Bundelkhand. The number of sub-
projects is also much larger in Garhwal and Kumaon than in Bundelkhand
because it is possible to group the villages in Bundelkhand into larger
water supply schemes due to geographical conditions.
Bundelkhand Regional Jal Sansthan
Description
7.        The Bundelkhand Jal Sansthan comprises five administrative dis-
tricts - Jhansi, Lalitpur, Banda, Hamirpur and Jalaun - with a total area
of about 30,000 km2.  The northern part of the region consists mainly of a
fringe area of the fertile Indo-Gangetic plain, while the southern part is
low hills and rocky outcrops.
8.        The average annual rainfall is about 880 mm occurring mostly
during the monsoon (July-September). About 61% of the total area is
cultivable. There are two harvesting seasons and the main crops are gram,
wheat, bajra, cotton and rice.
9.        Geologically the Jal Sansthan can be broadly divided into areas
underlain by granites, vindhyan rocks and alluvium. Some mineral deposits
such as iron ore, copper and quartz have been located.
10.       The total population is about 4.5 million, of which 55% are culti-
vators, and 25% agricultural laborers. Only about 23% of the population is
literate. The Jal Sansthan is a backward area without any major industries.
The land holdings are small, and decreasing in size, and only 52% of total
agricultural land is irrigated.
11.       A recent assessment of the rural areas has revealed that about
58% of the rural population is living in areas with scarce water supply.
About 51% of the total number of villages have been classified as scarcity.
12.       Table 1 shows for each district number of villages and population
served and unserved. Villages unserved have been subdivided into scarcity
and non-scarcity. Adequate and safe water supply facilities are lacking in
the scarcity villages, which have 58% of the rural population, indicating the
extent of the present need.
13.       In the Jal Sansthan 20 schemes have been commissioned or are under
execution at a total cost of 5.7 crores (US$7.1 million equivalent). The



ANENE 2
Page 3
schemes have been financed as 100% grant-in-aid. The rate of charges vary
from Rs 3.00 to Rs 5.00 per house connection per month and from Rs 175.00
to Rs 200.00 per standpost per year. The charges, when collected, are
generally sufficient to meet operation and maintenance costs.
14.       The schemes have been implemented by the LSGED, which has assumed
responsibility for their operation and maintenance in cases where local
bodies have not taken over their responsibilities.
Sub-Projects
15.       Thirteen sub-projects (Table 2) for rural water supplies have been
proposed, divided between the districts as follows: 3 in Jhansi/Lalitpur,
4 in Banda, 3 in Hamirpur and 3 in Jalaun. The number of villages and
projected populations (2001) to be served by each sub-project vary between 7
and 174 and between about 10,000 and 190,000 respectively. The water sources
for the sub-projects are rivers (4 sub-projects), impoundment (1) and ground-
water (8). The design capacity for the water works in the sub-projects
will vary between about 10 I/s to 150 l/s. The total capital costs are
estimated to be Rs 12.4 crores (US$15.5 million equivalent). The average
capital cost per capita is Rs 190 (US$24 equivalent) and it varies between
Rs 130 (US$17 equivalent) and Rs 224 (US$28) computed on 2001 projected
population.
16.       The sub-projects will cover about 530 villages with a present
population (1974) of about 0.5 million. The number of scarcity villages
currently unserved is assessed at 2,284 with a population of about 2.2
million. The sub-projects will extend adequate water supply facilities
to about 23% of the scarcity villages which corresponds to about 23% of the
population of such villages.
17.       Rural population presently served with water supply is about 13%,
which will increase to 24% after project implementation. Corresponding
figures for rural population living in scarcity villages are about 18%
and 35%.
Garhwal Regional Jal Sansthan
Description
18.       The Jal Sansthan comprises four districts, Dehra Dun, Tehri Garwhal,
Garhwal and Uttar Karshi. It covers an area of 20,300 km2. The Jal Sansthan
has a population of about 1.7 million (1971), which corresponds to about
1.9% of the State's entire population.
19.       Uttar Karshi is the only district to have no sub-projects in the
proposed Project. The districts of Dehra Dun, Tehri and Garhwal cover an
area of about 60% of the total area in the Jal Sansthan and their population
is about 90% of the Jal Sansthan. Tehri and Garhwal districts are entirely
in the hills with a chain of high ridges and deep valleys on altitudes vary-
ing from 300 to 4,000 m above mean sea level. Dehra Dun district comprises



ANNEX 2
Page 4
both hilly terrain and the terrai, which is the foothills area sloping down
to the plains.
20.       The average annual rainfall is about 1,670 mm and it occurs mostly
during the monsoon season (June to September). Sixty percent of the area is
covered by forests and the most common trees are pine, oak, deodor and fir.
Horticulture is dominating with principal fruits such as apples, plums and
peaches. About one-third of the area is cultivated. There are two crop
growing seasons for wheat, paddy, millet, sugar cane, maize and gram.
21.       Scenic beauty and cooler climates draw thousands each year from the
Plains to these districts, and in the tourist seasons people come from all
over India and abroad for recreation. Some mineral deposits such as iron-
ore, copper, magnesium and quartz have been located in the area.
22.       The Jal Sansthan is classed as a backward area, and has no major
industries. People depend on horticulture and agriculture and the land
holdings are small. Less than 15% of the total agricultural land is irri-
gated. In the absence of adequate road communications, many areas, especially
in Tehri and Garhwal, are not easily accessible. Tourism and the summer
houses of the wealthy have created rich areas in the towns of Dehra Dun and
Mussoorie, where per capita incomes are among the highest in U.P., contrasting
with neighboring rural areas, which are among the poorest in U.P.
23.       A recent assessment of the rural areas has revealed that about 29%
of the population is living in areas where water is scarce. About 30% of the
total number of villages have been classified as hardship or scarcity.
24.       Table 1 shows for each district the present number of villages and
population served and unserved. Villages unserved have been divided into
scarcity and non-scarcity. Adequate and safe water supply facilities are
lacking in the scarcity villages having 29% of the population, indicating
the extent of the present need.
25.       In the districts of Dehra Dun, Tehri and Garhwal about 1600 water
supply schemes have been commissioned or are under execution. The capital
costs for the completed water supply schemes, which are serving about 500,000
people, have amounted to 3.7 crores (US$4.7 million equivalent). The average
per capita capital cost was about 76 rupees (US$9.4 equivalent).
26.       These schemes have been implemented by the LSGED which has assumed
responsibility for their operations and maintenance in cases where local
bodies have not accepted responsibility.
Sub-Projects
27.       Four hundred and sixty-two rural water supply schemes have been
proposed (Table 2), which will be grouped into a convenient number of sub-
projects. The schemes are divided between three districts as: 63 in Dehra
Dun,171 in Tehri and 228 in Garhwal. The number of villages and their
projected populations (2001) to be served by each sub-project vary between



.ANE X 2
Page 5
5 and 60 and from about 1,000 to about 30,000, respectively. The water
sources are rivers and streams, (128 schemes), springs (330) and groundwater
(4). The design capacity for the water works in the sub-projects will vary
between 1 l/s and 20 l/s. The total capital costs are estimated to be Rs 5.7
crores (US$7.1 million equivalent). The average capital cost per capita is
Rs 290 (US$36 equivalent) and it varies between Rs 230 (US$29 equivalent) to
Rs 370 (US$46 equivalent), computed on 2001 projected population.
28.       The sub-projects will cover about 660 villages with a present
population (1974) of about 0.14 million. The number of scarcity villages
currently unserved in the districts of Dehra Dun, Tehri and Garhwal is
assessed to 1,585 with a population of about 0.14 million. The sub-projects
will extend adequate water supply facilities to about 42% of the scarcity
villages, which corresponds to about 36% of the population inhabiting such
villages.
29.       Rural population in the districts of Dehra Dun, Tehri and Garhwal
presently served with water supply is about 40%, which will increase to about
51% after project implementation. Corresponding figures for rural popula-
tion living in scarcity villages are about 58% and 73%.
Kumaon Regional Jal Sansthan
Description
30.       The Jal Sansthan comprises four districts - Almora, Nainital,
Pithoragarh, and Chamoli - and it covers an area of 30,000 km2. The Jal
Sansthan has a population of 2.1 million (1971), which corresponds to 2.4%
of the State' s entire population.
31.     - Of the four districts only Almora and Nainital will have sub-
projects in the proposed Project. These two districts cover an area of
about 45% of the total area in the Jal Sansthan and their population is
about 73% of the Jal Sansthan. The Almora district is entirely in the hills
with a chain of high ridges and deep valleys on altitudes varying from 300
to 4,000 m above mean sea level. Nainital district comprises both hilly
terrain and the terrai, which is the foothills area sloping down to the plains.
32.       The rainfall, forestry and vegetation characteristics are similar
to Garhwal, with the predominant activities as horticulture and tourism.
The Jal Sansthan area is classed as a backward area, and has no major
industries. Horticulture and agriculture are based on very small land
holdings, but less than 15% of the total agricultural land is irrigated.
Inadequate road communications leave many areas inaccessible.
33.       A recent assessment of the rural areas has revealed that about
57% of the population is living in areas, where water is scarce. About
52% of the total number of villages have been classified as hardship or
scarcity.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
34.       Table 1 shows for each district the present number of villages
and population served and unserved. Villages unserved have been divided
into scarcity and non-scarcity. Adequate and safe water supply facilities
are lacking in the scarcity villages having 57% of the population, indicating
the extent of the present need.
35.       In the districts of Almora and Nainital about 2,000 water supply
schemes have been commissioned or are under execution. The capital costs
for the completed water supply schemes, which are serving about 400,000
people, have amounted to 3.5 crores (US$4.3 million equivalent). The
average per capita capital cost was about 88 rupees (US$11.0 equivalent).
36.       As in Garhwal, schemes have been implemented by the LSGED, which
has assumed responsibility for their operations and maintenance in cases
where local bodies have not accepted responsibility.
Sub-Projects
37.       Four hundred and eighty six rural water supply schemes have been
proposed (Table 2), which will be grouped into a convenient number of sub-
projects. The schemes are divided between 299 in Almora District and 187
in Nainital District. The number of villages and their projected populations
(2001) to be served by each sub-project vary between 5 and 100 and from about
1,000 to about 45,000, respectively. The water sources are rivers and streams
(65 schemes), springs (348) and groundwater (73). The design capacity for
the water works in the sub-projects will vary between 1 l/s and 30 l/s. The
total capital costs are estimated to be Rs 6.8 cores (US$8.5 million equiv-
alent). The average capital cost per capita is Rs 210 (US$26) and it varies
between Rs 130 (US$17) to Rs 310 (US$38), computed on 2001 projected population.
38.       The sub-projects will cover about 860 villages with a present
population (1974) of about 0.23 million. The number of scarcity villages
currently unserved in Almora and Nainital is assessed at 2,874 with a
population of about 0.8 million. The sub-projects will extend adequate
water supply facilities to about 30% of the scarcity villages, which
corresponds to about 28% of the population inhabiting such villages.
39.       Rural population in the districts of Almora and Nainital presently
served with water supply is about 28%, which will increase to about 44%
after project implementation. Corresponding figures for rural population
living in scarcity villages are about 33% and 52%.
July 17, 1975






a0m  P12111 I17 Ml       A10mIDDODG   021
0DODI,O0IOi & DIIDADO ID VIUDnDD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                            3
11            76        53                                 D O6D3      DID          'DD D7                     4'DOD11         Do           'ID            DI          130      DO       10          DO,4         DODD 11     DOD        PDODD                  I 5361-              0063DI                     11t       0001        OnOOD          D
1     --A        316,        60 ;5            7,1        W       ,2    69~    4                   1           03 125-4di                                 D5          1              1           10       19       AD-1  44    21            00         20            2                 2,5           P5      255           A,,                      3 6,   ~      G35
OMODIAOInID    MDOOD4   10,000  AdO    .0~31~   61,30  OD    D,79   1, 706,A                   01            3? 0,                      hO              4I           I             DID        A3D      20       37          571           ADO        DAD           A5                300            893      350          559          ODD        509                         05
DODOD 4Ii   67190       093       1    D.,0          10   D,30    i,A6         246             I           1,           503          ADo            AID          13              AA8        09       57       74         6.1            6A         72           5b                530          A;o       70            314          057        733          39
DADoI.  00001Z        000   31.25    6,599        403    ,~.5      ,3     05175          ,903         MO            2,100       2.303           0,300       18»              763        419       OD       150      i,6i           7,0D       1.05           oh              O,'7          1.095      O,45 D,7 0               9          1.00           DD             o
6.36,       11,    746       719       616      i0  63   1,200                ,397         0Th             630         39o             13          lOg             OhS         96       30      139        030-          109         12           3                  019                    D12           5'20        00         20I37
01,10,  000        05      0645   --33        001,     0 1 !15   1,90                 415          11                         '1135           03          111            ,           130      145      139        837            20          406                            Hil01        000      '.oO           012         iA6DS015
7o.O -' 0737      0i'7   0,390    Dt          30S   0,0~13   n3on      S,"I0        5,730          330          2,974          700             B6*         -00            056        ool      03       020      6,000                      DSW             4              2,118          ADO        030          005          025        D97          33             *
172   55D68    1.1137   0.434   7.701    .,707    9,307  1 1,042   5,243           4ho4n        '303            6,749       3.361           4,259       1,760           2,51         00       90   1,170        6,200         *505        0.179           34l4 6109                    0,777   030-           11,59        1,930      A5D1           29             00






DANNEX 2
INDIA2
00000 P0013  W0630ESUPPLY ACND SEWERAGE PROIJECT
RaDio1 2: D=  SAC 23 050 7 011N NEOOAI- CAL L9NDJWI2
Prgtoooi  OSoOrSox   7lonoo2 0-Sltoooo2oooorR                  Woer        Ro-r  DRStailot                                   RADAR   DSRE         EL    A N        3-Pr-jo                         Sub-Projet Cost
001                 OoAor,o or        Woo~~31-   :polu 2 D    oR y         Rto                          ooo1                                       CI         Crn   oa  Cohta             1974               J-n   o l   p.t'
93  3  5             0                                         A            -o          mo        00         13        9)         AU             C        17             1          33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I3 11    1 1
3n,AouC  jboonSj        A.-.ipo  DI---   71  3 (',7C I54ooA         1         P30                                         33         o7j         h4         o41
La1.Stooo  C. OoooatoU  0.74 023,400 187,726~~~~~m  O   n(I                                       010        260         00         3U01
3   loao 92  0-,400I JR,                   .................6.                                    Ol           R          00_
.OotooooO      1F 97939730347 736      7         R3,5)0                                       70        ,91         77        33          73       3,0            9         3677         99         9
Ror.8o    0, lIon  ot 33,1CC 47,9         3                                       20   436    33   9oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tq9  ,~o T,9                               0,
2. On-C  CSoi    '7  CR_70C 0 3210I3                     :.33                                     20        473         2':        639~
3. Au             2 3  30,300  L39goo                   '(Wp3                                     07        637         30         65L
4. Aa            3    25,300  3_6.                        .1                                      23        544         30         710
-bAttno        3   590I      6,000.3                                             O             3        ,4           3        3,70        p        375)3         ORE        30.35        595        937
Inro    . OW             00   R,RO      9,3t:      3.         ',  (sO                                     8           2          0         039
C. rAndab         24  ,c,6co  h644t                       3 127                                             63           6          s
5. oOoh            3 7      6    .-2.  00 17oO                                                                          oIh        331
Jaoao          L. Jn  100         1  1-9,200  27_03                     -.303                                    07         4602         2          2
U. Th-e           17   3.700  16,000       I            .w.0)                                     8         -89         DO         06
3.  otooh        C29,062350.W13                                                                 7          4,2052
Gnoh-1            LeArod-        S. 0;ooaLr         00   7,200  00,500     16         R()lt(  7A590.(                                        166
2. ACh-po-        OR2C,70   30,07~1 ~                (~t 7 ,E(6 ,3.8.C2                           iR       126                      6
3.CO,on.        09   3,0R   3,23        09              5o2(,333                                            0           0
lai   1             A"-                                                              ..         7 2          4                                                                 __ --5
4.  totS        OR 3.,000                              EoO5     S3   A.))         3            30        o,4          7i10)                         9775o         T7,       679           23        23.2
ono)-.o,-0              07   0,600   3,7,0       '              o3                                      o         ho 
2.  lolOr         07   3.500   5,050    09          0t(93,0(00)                                    3        7)            4         93
3. Unop-apa       1D   3,000o  4.3500      9        2t(L3,034)                                     2        47            3         7
4. Uttjaar        2    5,2OA0 7,0         1`0(9                                                    7       003            6        1h2
o.Prtap Soor  0-,   4,4oo   6,4                        3 ,o3sS                                   4                                12
0.                13hlooor   3,000O  -04o0 9        0))437,9                                       3        70            4         93
7. (1-nba          5 900    40                          (5,,o3o)                                   6       039          I 
3. Uinreodmaoa.. D-R2  4,o0DU     0,8t00            0to3003),R(005                                         JIBt          0         SliD
9. BhiASoA.n.a   -5   9,000  13,000    30           )t0315(,0(153                                  4       009          1 
10. JoOAoO         CA   T,ROU   3,400    13           tg, 9 ~9)   133-.03                                                  7         ___6_
SoRotnO~    "38   0,900  73,00    171            oY3R33,373                      TO           =53      76           3            2         3 1,161  T7695                                236        99
lotonl         1. lot             5      hoo      605     3        0(3)                                           0         o6-
C. 5R0jikhol      DO   2,500   3,600    04          0C0O(),(C                                      2         4)~
3.OP-o            00   0400 3,300                                   0                                      -3;   7       2          47
4. RJOo.          0    4,300 6,200    00            0l463                                          4         95                    11
6  .1Thn   i,ni   13   2,900o 4,00                                                                 -        ho           3          .
7. D-nokoi        60   3,330  13,50       4         R()Ir03),R337)                                      9  00          10          PLC
3. DogatRo        OR   0,400   2,000    12          (1A32                                          C        4h           2          47
19. L= -Aooo       35   4,020   7,0080      A        33032,30                                               100           6         140
00. Eknoho-        45   5,930   8,000      3        R2  Rt32  ,3 26)                               5        LAO           7         166
31 .kPo-n          03 3,020o  4,403    -2.2          P1 r±33t l ,oe:1o3                             0         75           4         35
0. -Rro.lA,      07   3,500   5.000    12          0(103                                                   71           4          95
1C. Rioooa         202   3,000   4,0-      14o3ooo                                                           70           4          93
14. N85ii:d-n    ho   5.20       7         2               03   )03):                                                      6        ohs_2_
TOTS).        636 3983  196.62o   462                                                         12335;3) ~   2,38a    :6-       3,335       960       o,8 o                                9         36.2
Almooc         0. Do-ltogi,      20   3,320   4,700    0)-           R(3) ,02Xo3)                                           9i9o
3. 0A             30 C    0,0210  12,750  20          0(3-t3,7)7,0014)                           '7         50           9         210
h.SnkoRo    38 a      ,80 2,000    95               0(0),t(h>,S(1:)                             0         083         10         2301
7.Aocr    R 5,40   7,090    o6               o(6                                         o         013          6         142
6. Fapkote        30   8,620  02,500    2 00            2 37                                                166         SR         230
7. Boaa-h-o       30   4,020   6,R800     0           R(') 7t(20:436                                          9 5         6        062
8.  err5.0   ,00        ,        I           R32 RJJ2' 0 '03                             4          95                    000
3. AoSAo          30   0000  90,)         24                                                      6 4~1 0                0         109
01. 00a:k0too      C      ,1 ,     20      06 i                           o(:                                0            7          ~60
00  'bROkc-oo   C    0,01    0,500          8          033,72(3    a)                               2         47 
03.Coohot        20   4,120o   6,ooo    .5S(                                                                953                   1
ph4  Oa-,t         30   5,910   3,50030(                                                                      0           7la066
A B. kaaota      30   6,020   3,090    20            0(3) 0(33' "'4)                             3         086
16. L.  pa          U 6:2         .0        3          0(                                                     1                      66
17. Cheso-t        39   9, 500   8,oo0    25                  (      2)                                       181
sobtotal1      3   95 '<.39,02o                        '    jfl:o3                <           3        0000         1-          37         7       033           36    9775     _       797           97F3
II--5,19o      0. 0a mr  A 3,71  OO 0,o                   1            (~                                         3          71
3.  7PIlnda       C      ,20 00                                                                             110          9         sIC
3     . .iOt.aloa  45   7,600  2.0,000    30       3)                                        7         06621
t.BSotnl          50   o,poo  :0,50   0               F30oRt33,('' o                               6        062                     2
OPomo-gor         302   3200  00,9-:O     2              ,                                         7        166 
7. KooO,lp:       4o  13,9,00  25,-~    1                  (14)                                   16        -3",8        1         4
0.  1orpr         30L74C0  220,41                          (so)                                    1        330         la         429C
3.  onpr          W   0: 000  45  00                    9~.W203                                   07        039         3           5
2.0. Thatton       60  07 360  4o00o    J-5            0.w. 15)                                   09         331         33         780                                            __
SoSb-tel      Z2 130506014,0 05 -                  0_737003, 0o-1 07 -.0W.  7 3   32    10 -1          -T6          I733      3,2        2f51      3,.3         _            20.0       739          E767
ThW0L         R9~6 oo66:  3R8.60o   4R6         RU32)Dt(33A.s(348) ..w. 73033                022       4,778        266      6,296        679       ,0          239          30.4       oo6          25.6
AnearO  P-nlooa  JaR Sao,tAn-                    0,01 010,300 2364,900-  961   7(1,()oOs,oQR,..0300                                        17,029        954,    22,510    37         31,039         3o6          58        all          26.4
spring 3o)   --odaat-r (o).
S555CR, LEUGS.
Solo 18, 100'






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR                                      1975                   1976         |          1977                   1978                   1979
IDA FISCAL YEAR                        1975                   1976                    1977                   1978                    1979
INDIA FISCAL YEAR               1974/75                 1975/76                 1976/77               1977/78                 1978/79                 1979/80
QUARTERS                   r2    3      4      1   2      3    4    1    2    3              1     2                       2    3    4       1    2    3    4
FIFTH Pl ANI PERIOD            `.;,            .            7y-- - -    - w
DETAILED DESIGNI1.V~ .                                                                                                               
SUB-PROJECT APPRAISAL
LAND AQUISI RFON                                               -           - .         -           -          -
PROCUREMENT                                                 _
CIVIL WORKS                                                    -    -            m _         -           -          -    -            -    -
INSTALLATION OF
EQUIPMENT & MATERIAL
COMMISSIONING_____._._                                                                      __    _     _     _     _    _
World Bank-9306 (R)






ANTNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of the KAVAL Towns and their Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sewage Disposal Systems and Proposed Sub-Projects
1.        The five biggest towns in Uttar Pradesh are Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi,
Allahabad and Lucknow, and are known as the KAVAL towns and their locations
are shown on Map 11384. The combined popularlon of the five towns was about
3.8 million in 1971, corresponding to about 31% of the total Uttar Pradesh
urban population. The existing water supply and sewerage systems are inade-
quate in these towns, which are likely to be designated Jal Sansthans before
sub-projects are commenced in their areas. The investments in water and
sewerage have not kept pace with the large scale urbanization and industri-
alization that has taken place during the latest decade. Maps 11385 and
11386 show the water supply and sewerage systems of Lucknow, as a typical
KAVAL town.
2.        The general topography is similar in each of the KAVAL towns.  The
towns are located in the alluvial Gangetic Plain and are underlaid with
sediments deposited in successive stages. Groundwater-bearing strata is
generally available at depths of 75 to 200 meters. The temperature in the
KAVAL towns varies from 2°C in winter to 470C in summer. The annual rainfall
varies from 680 mm to 1,025 mm with a large proportion occurring during the
monsoon season, July to September.
3.        Regulated by the Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act 1959, each
KAVAL town has a Municipal Corporation, which is an autonomous local body
responsible to the Minister of Local Self Government through the GUP Local
Self Government Department. A Chief Executive Officer appointed by GUP is
the senior officer of the Corporation. Each Corporation has been organized
into a number of departments and the "Water Works Department" has been
responsible for operation and maintenance of the water supply and of sewage
pumping stations, while sewerage and sewage disposal services usually have
been administered through Health, Drainage and Farm Departments. The City
Engineer is usually the head of the department. Chart 9309 (Annex 3) shows
as an example the organization of the Water Works Section in Lucknow. The
Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance now sets out the functions
and powers of a Jal Sansthan, and takes precedence over the 1959 Act. When
these towns are declared to be Jal Sansthans, these services will be separated
from other municipal activities. Probable changes in a Jal Sansthan organi-
zation to meet IDA requirements for sub-projects investment are shown on
Chart 9310 (Annex 5).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Kanpur
4.        Kanpur is the biggest industrial town of the state, with a popula-
tion of 1,273,000 (1971). It is located in south central Uttar Pradesh, on
the southern bank of the River Ganga, and is famous for its textile, rayon
and leather industries and also for its technical, medical and agricultural
institutions.
5.        Kanpur Water Works was established in 1892.  Water is currently
drawn from two intakes with pumping stations on the River Ganga and the Lower
Ganga Canal. The Ganga River has shifted course towards the opposite bank
from the intake. This has necessitated the construction of a 0.7 km canal
between the river stream and the intake site. The canal has to be dredged
frequently. Exploratory drilling of tubewells has indicated occurrence of
potable ground water, but the reliability and quantity have yet to be
established.  The raw water is treated at Benajhaber treatment works.  The
treatment comprises plain sedimentation, alum dosing, settling and rapid
or slow sand filtration. The treated water is collected in a clearwell for
pumping to 19 distribution zones.
6.        The water works serve a population of about 1,300*000 and the
distribution system covers an area of 57 km2. The average daily supply is
about 216 mld (2.5 m3/sec) subdivided into 80% domestic use and 20% non-
domestic use. Only about 23% of the residential connections are metered.
The domestic average per capita consumption is about 133 l/d, taking into
account service connections, standposts and including wastage and leakage.
7.        The sewerage system dates back to the end of the last century.  The
present system covers an area of 40 km2 or 70% of the area covered by the
water distribution network.  The average flow is 157 mld and through two
intermediary and one main pumping station it is conveyed to a sewage farm
for irrigation of about 3,100 hectares. No treatment of the sewage is
provided. About 56% of the houses have dry service latrines.
Agra
8.        Agra has a historical past, and was during the Moghul Period, the
main political, economical and cultural center of India. A large number of
tourists visit the town for its historical monuments including the famous
Taj Mahal. The town is located in western Uttar Pradesh, on the western
bank of the River Yamuna, which is the raw water source. The ground water
in the area is hard, saline and unsuitable for consumption. The feasibility
of extracting water from radial collector wells to be located in the river
bed has:been investiga-ted and the results are promising.
9.        In 1888 piped water supply was constructed for a population of
160,000-.  From the intake with pumping station the raw water is pumped to
the treatment works for pre-sedimentation, chemical dosing-, settling and
rapid or slow dand filtration. The treated water is pumped to 14 distribution
zones. Within the zones the water is distributed by booster pumping stations,
with or without elevated storage tanks.



AXNEX 3
Page 3
10.       The existing water works serve a population of about 580,000.  The
average daily supply is about 104 mld (1.2 m3/sec), and the consumption is
75% domestic use and 25% non-domestic use. The number of service connections
is about 15,000 of which about 10,500 are unmetered. The domestic average
per capita consumption is about 135 l/d taking into account service connections
and standposts and including wastage and leakage.
11.       The first comprehensive sewerage scheme was commissioned in 1920.
The total flow of sewage is collected in Tanjganj main pumping station for
discharge without any treatment to a sewage farm for irrigation. About 11%
of all houses have flush latrines and the remainder dry service latrines.
Varanasi
12.       Varanasi (Benares) may be the oldest city in the World.  It is
located in eastern Uttar Pradesh on the northwest bank of River Ganga. The
town has great religious importance for both Hindus and Buddhists and it is
an educational and tourist center. The larger industries are weaving, brass-
ware, and diesel locomotive works.
13.       The water sources are the River Ganga and groundwater.  Twenty-two
tubewells are in operation and their present yields indicate a safe and
economical ground water supply. The first piped water supply scheme was
installed by 1892 with the Ganga as the water source. This surface water
supply has gradually been extended and supplemented with ground water. The
raw water is treated by pre-sedimentation, chemical dosing, settling and
rapid or slow sand filtration. The treated water is pumped to various zones
in the distribution system. Each zone, covering a population of about
50,000 people, is provided with booster pumping facilities and ground or
elevated storage tanks.
14.       The existing system is sufficient to meet the requirements of
630,000 people, The average daily supply is about 146 mld (1.7 m3/sec). The
water consumption is divided into 90% domestic use, and 10% non-domestic
use. The number of service connections is about 31,000 of which
8,000 are metered. The domestic average per capita consumption is about
215 l/d when including service connections and standposts with wastage
and leakage.
15.       The first part of the sewerage system in Varanasi was built during
the period 1898 to 1917. The present sewerage system consists of 320 km
length of sewers, a sewage pumping station at Village Konia and a sewage
farm covering about 220 hectares. Trunk sewers and pumping stations are
currently under construction along the River Ganga to prevent river pollution
at the bathing ghats. The number of domestic sewage connections is about
25,000 serving 35% of the present population.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Allahabad
16.       Allahabad is located in southwestern Uttar Pradesh at the confluence
of the Rivers Ganga and Yamuna and it is an important religious center for
the Hindus and a previous provincial capital. In recent years the town has
also attracted some heavy industries, including pumps and compressors manu-
facturing. It is also a major agricultural, education and law center.
17.       The River Yamuna is the main raw water source, but some tubewells
have recently been drilled to supplement the river water supply, their
yields confirming that ground water is abundant. The waterworks was es-
tablished in 1891 and has subsequently been reorganized and enlarged with
the growing demand. The raw water is pumped from the intake works to the
treatment site for pre-sedimentation, chemical dosing, settling and rapid
or slow sand filtration. The treated water is pumped directly into the
distribution system. One of the zones in the distribution system is supplied
by groundwater from 3 tubewells.
18.       The population covered by the present water supply system is about
520,000. The distribution system covers an area of 30 km . The average
daily water supply is about 120 mld (1.4 m3/sec). The water consumption is
divided into 85% domestic use and 15% non-domestic use. The number of
service connections is about 35,000 of which about 25% are metered. Metered
water consumption is about 30% and unmetered about 70%. The domestic
average per capita consumption is about 200 l/d, when considering both
service connections and standposts and including wastage and leakage.
19.       The sewerage system in Allahabad was first introduced in 1910.
The present system covers an area of about 27 km2 and serves a population
of about 200,000 or 40% of total. An average flow of about 60 mld is con-
veyed to the main pumping station via two intermediary pumping stations.
The sewage is ultimately discharged untreated (although diluted by ground-
water) to two sewage farms with a combined area of 1,350 hectares. Popula-
tion served by septic tank is about 70,000 or 14%. The remaining part of the
population is served by the conservancy system.
Lucknow
20.       Lucknow is the capital and the administrative and commercial center
of Uttar Pradesh. The town is developing manufacturing industries, but it
has an important railway center and has educational, technical and medical
institutions.
21.       The major raw water source is the River Gomti.  Exploratory tube-
well drilling has been carried out within city limits, but with only limited
success. A geological survey has indicated the existence of groundwater-
bearing strata about 4 km outside the city. Lucknow waterworks was estab-
lished in 1894. The raw water is pumped to the treatment works at Aish



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Bagh for pre-sedimentation, chemical dosing, settling, slow or rapid sand
filtration. The treated water is pumped to a number of zonal overhead tanks
for further distribution into the network system. Map 11385 shows the
present water supply works.
22.       The population served by the present system is about 840,000, and
the distribution system covers an area of 82 km2. The average daily water
supply is about 180 mld (2.1 m3/sec). The domestic consumption is about 90%
and non-domestic 10%. Water drawn from standposts represents 5% of the
domestic consumption. Only 10% of the service connections are metered. The
domestic average per capita consumption is about 195 l/d when considering
both service connections and standposts and including wastage and leakage.
23.       The sewerage system was first introduced in 1920.  The present
system serves a population of about 700,000. The sewage is conveyed to two
main pumping stations for discharge without treatment to a sewage farm for
irrigation. The irrigated area is about 500 hectares. Map 11386 shows
present sewerage works.
Sub-Projects
General
24.       All sub-projects will be the subject of separate and detailed
appraisal reports by the Nigam appraisal unit, and submitted for IDA and LIC
appraisal prior to financing from the proposed credit and the LIC loan.
Present and projected population and water demand through 2001, the master
plan period, have been shown with design criteria in Annex 6 and in Table 1.
(Annex 3). Maps 11385 and 11386 show proposed water and sewerage works for
Lucknow, as an example. A short description of the present proposal for
water supply and sewerage sub-projects for each of the towns follows below.
The sub-projects will improve the water supply service and through 1981
increase the population served from about 3.9 to 5.1 million (+ 30%) by
augmenting the water production capacity with about 5.0 m3/sec. The sewerage
sub-projects will mainly achieve rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
systems and limited extensions of the service areas.
Kanpur
25.       Alternative proposals for meeting the additional requirements of
water supply from River Ganga or groundwater have been studied but final
decisions have yet to be made. Groundwater development as a supplement to
existing river water supply may be the least cost solution. The town is
divided into 4 service districts, which are further subdivided into zones.
The service district covering the city center will continue to be served
from the existing treatment works. The other service districts may be fed
from tubewells to be drilled within respective service area. The water
would be pumped from the tubewells into ground or elevated zonal reservoirs
for further distribution by pumping or by gravity. Chlorination is the only



ANNEX 3
Page 6
treatment required for the groundwater. The sub-project would then comprise:
replacement of material and equipment in existing pumping stations and treat-
ment works; modifications of the treatment works; tubewells with pumps and
electrical equipment; booster pumping stations; chlorination equipment:
ground and elevated storage tanks; transmission mains; and extension of the
distribution system. The sub-project will improve the water supply service
and through 1981 increase the population served from 1.3 to 1.7 million by
augmenting the water production capacity by about 2.3 m3/sec.
26.       There is a proposal to construct a barrage in order to divert River
Ganga to an earlier course. The justification for the barrage as set forth
by various concerned authorities is deemed to be land reclamation and
land access for town development; improved communication across the river
by using the barrage as a causeway; improved intake conditions for the water
works by eliminating the recurrent dredging costs; and improved intake con-
ditions for cooling water to a steam power station (which is likely to be
abandoned). The project would be very costly and part of the costs is pro-
posed to be borne by the water works. This part has, however, still to be
justified, and it will be subject to further considerations,
27.       Parts of the existing sewerage system are choked and have to be
cleansed. Some sewers will be relaid or duplicated and the sewerage system
will be extended to cover new areas. Two sewage pumping stations with pump-
sumps, to be provided with screening facilities, are proposed to be built.
Two raw water pumping stations with rising mains are proposed for diluting
the sewage before its use for irrigation.
Agra
28.       The raw water supply from Yamuna river is currently used to its
ultimate capacity and has to be supplemented from another water source.
Alternative water sources have been studied, and collector wells to be built
in the river bed could be most feasible. The distribution system will be
reorganized and subdivided into 14 zones to be fed from the existing treat-
ment works and the proposed wells. For well water, chlorination only would
be required. In the distribution system six zones will be served from
overhead tanks and eight by direct boosting. The sub-project would then
comprise: two radical collector wells with pumping plants; booster pumping
stations; ground and elevated storage tanks; modification of existing
treatment works with replacement of some equipment; transmission mains;
and extension of the distribution system. The sub-project will improve the
water supply service, and through 1981, increase the population served from
about 0.6 to 0.7 million by augmenting the water production capacity by
about 0.8 m /sec.
29.       The sewerage sub-projects would include:  replacement or cleaning
of existing sewers; extension of the sewerage system; and replacement of
a pumping plant for augmenting the pumping station capacity.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Varanasi
30.       For extension of the Varanasi water supply ground water development
has been found technically and economically feasible. The town area is
proposed to be divided into two main service districts to be served by river
water and by ground water, respectively. The service districts will be
further subdivided into zones. Existing intake and treatment works will be
modified and some mechanical and electrical equipment will be replaced.
Tubewells will be drilled, as needed, and so located to achieve lowest
possible distribution costs. The ground water will require chlorination only
before being pumped to zonal ground or elevated storage tanks for further
boosting or gravitating to the distribution system. The sub-project would
comprise: modification of intake and treatment works with some replacement
of equipment; tubewells with pumping plants; ground and elevated storage
tanks, transmission mains; and strengthening and extension of the distribu-
tion system. The sub-project will improve the water supply service and
through 1981 increase the population served from about 0.6 to 0.9 million
by augmenting the water production capacity with about 0.5 m3/sec.
31.       Varanasi is divided into three sewerage districts.  Parts of
existing sewerage system will have to be cleansed or relaid and new sewers
will be extended to areas not yet covered. In order to cope with increased
sewage flow three sewage pumping stations, two main and one intermediary,
with rising mains will be built.  The sewage will continue to be discharged
untreated to sewage farms for irrigation.
Allahabad
32.       For the Allahabad water supply the further development of the
ground water source has been found to be technically and economically
feasible. Existing intake and treatment works require modification and some
replacement of equipment. The distribution system is proposed to be re-
organized and divided into 12 zones. The zones to be fed by groundwater
will be provided with tubewells as needed. The groundwater will be pumped
to overhead storage tanks for gravitating to the distribution system. The
sub-project would comprise: modification of intake and treatment works with
some replacement of equipment; tubewells with pumping plants; elevated
storage tanks; transmission mains; and strengthening and extension of the
distribution system. The sub-project will improve the water supply service
and through 1981 increase the population served from about 0.5 to 0.8 million
by augmenting the water production capacity with about 1.0 m3/sec.
33.       The Allahabad town area is divided into 4 sewerage zones.  Part of
existing sewers are choked and have to be cleansed or relaid and new sewers
will be extended to areas not yet covered. An intermediary sewage pumping
station with pumpsump and screening equipment and related rising main will
be built. A number of dry latrines will be converted into flush latrines.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Lucknow
34.       For extension of the Lucknow water supply groundwater development
has been found technically and economically more feasible than expansion of
the existing river source supply. The distribution system is proposed to be
divided into 4 service districts, which will be further subdivided into zones,
each for a population of around 50,000 people. Two districts will be served
from existing treatment works and two from a groundwater source proposed to
be developed about 5 km outside the town area. Existing intake and treatment
works will be modified and some equipment will be replaced. The ground water
will be pumped to zonal overhead storage tanks and gravitate to the distribu-
tion areas. The sub-project would comprise: modification of intake and
treatment works with replacement of some equipment; tubewells with pumping
and electrical plants; booster pumping stations; ground and overhead storage
tanks; transmission mains; and extension of the distribution system. The
sub-project will improve the water supply service and through 1981 increase
the population served from about 0.8 to 1.0 million by augmenting the water
production capacity with about 0.4 m3/sec.
35.       The Lucknow sewerage system is proposed to be divided into 4
sewerage districts. The sub-project will include cleaning and replacing
of existing sewers, where needed, and extension of new sewers to areas not
yet covered.
July 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 1: Kaval Towns Jal Sansthans
Forecast of Population and Water Demand 1974-2001
KAVAL TOWNS  YEAR     POPULATION                                                            WATER DEMAND
AVERAGE                                                        MAXIMUM
Domestic           Non-Domestic              Total              Domestic           Non-Domestic              Total
x 1,000      m3/s    m3/year      m3/s    m3/year      m3/s   m3/year        m3/s   m3/year       m3/s    m3/year       m3/s    m3/year
_ _ _ __ _  x 1,000,000     x 1,000,000           x 1,000,000          x 1,000,000           x 1,000,000          x 1,000,000
1          2           3          4         5            6        7          8         9          10         11         12        13         14         15
1.  Kanpur        1974        1,337      2.07     65.2          0.45    14.4        2.52     79.6        2.59      81.5        0.56     18.0        3.15      99.5
1981        1,704      3.55    112.0         0.78    24.8         4.33    136.8        4.44    140.0         o.98     31.0        5.42    171.0
1991        2,250      4.69    147.8         0.78    24.8         5.47    172.6        5.86    184.8         0.98     31.0        6.84    215.8
2001        2,840      7.12    224.5         1.31    41.3         8.43    265.8        8.90    280.6         1.64     51.6       10.54    332.2
2.  Agra          1974          583      0.90     28.4          0.30     9.4        1.20     37.8        1.13      35.6        0.38     11.8         1.51     47.4
1981          670      1.39     43.8         o.46    14.6         1.85     58.4        1.74      54.8        0.58     18.3        2.32      73.1
1991          890      1.85     58.4         0.46    14.6         2.31     73.0        2.31      73.0        0.58     18.3        2.89      91.3
2001        1,280      2.69     84.7         0.55    17.5         3.24    102.2        3.36    105.9         o.69     21.9         4.05    127.8
3.  Varanasi      1974          630      1.57     49.5          0.12     3.8        1.69     53.3         1.76     64.2        0.15      4.7         1.91     60.2
1981          870      1.81     56.9         0.14     4.4         1.95     61.3        2.26      71.2        0.17      5.5        2.43      76.7
1991        1,225      2.50     78.8         0.19      5.8        2.69     84.6        3.13      98.6        0.23      7.3        3.36    105.9
2001        1,600      3.24    102.2         0.32    10.2         3.56    112.4        4.05    127.8         0.41     12.8        4.45    140.6
4.  Allahabad    1974           520      1.19     35.9          0.18     7.2        1.37     43.1         1.49     44.9        0.23      9.0         1.72     53.9
1981          826      1.72     50.5         o.42    17.0         2.14     67.5        2.15      67.8        0.53     21.3         2.68     84.5
1991        1,292      2.69     84.7          0.98    31.0        3.67    115.7         3.36    106.0        1.23     38.7         4.59    144.8
2001        1,671      3.48    109.6          1.19    37.7        4.67    147.3         4.35    137.2        1.49     47.1         5.84    184.2
5.  Lucknow       1974          841      1.89      59.7         0.23     7.3        2.12     67.0         2.25     71.0        0.29       9.1        2.54     80.1
1981          990      2.07     65.2         0.26      8.3        2.33     73.5         2.58     81.4        0.33     10.4         2.91     91.8
1991        1,335      2.78     87.8         o.48    15.0         3.26    102.8         3.48    109,7        o.60     18.8         4.08    128.7
2001        1,931      4.83    152.2          0.74    23.5        5.57    175.7         6.03    190.2        0.93     29.4         6.96    2i9.5
6.  Summary       1974        3,911      7.62    238.7          1.28    42.1        8.90    280.8         9.22    297.2        1.61      52.6       10.83    341.1
1981        5.060     10.54    328.4         2.06    69.1        12.60    397.5       13.17    415.2         2.59     86.5        15.76    497.1
1991        6,102     14.51    457.5         2.89    91.2        17.40    548.7        18.14    572.1        3.62    114.1        21.76    686.5
2001        9,322     21.36    673.2          4.11   130.2       25.47    803.4        26.69    841.7        5.16    162.8        31.85   1004.3
Source:  LSGED
July 18, 1975






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LUCKNOW MUNICIPAL CORPORATION WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE WORKS
PRESENT ORGANIZATION (1974)
Municipal
Corporation
Administrator -
(Mukhya Nagar
Adhikari)                       Municipal Accountant
r                ~~~~~SecretarV
Water Works                    WLegal and Admihis-
Engineer                      tration
Asi ltE                  Assistant Engineer                     g                       ssistant EngineerA
AssatEgineer            Treatment Works                   Head Clerk           .     Raw Water                     Assistant Engineer
Distribution          ~Pumping Station                       .Pumping Station
i    IZnseco                       r   oremen                                                                         _      uperintendent
Superi ntendent
_    I nspector           _     Superi ntendent                                                                       _ Tube WellIs
Pumping Stations
World Bank-9309(R)
Number of Staff 623






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
The Jal Nigam
(State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
1.        The Jal Nigam was established in 1975 following promulgation of
the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance in May 1975.
2.        The Nigam's basic organization and assets, staff and expertise,
locations and premises were derived from the Local Self Government Engi-
neering Department, which was merged into the Nigam in June 1975.
Local Self Government Engineering Department (LSGED)
3.        The Local Self Government Engineering Department (LSGED) was
originally formed as the GUP Public Health Engineering Department and prior
to 1927, was part of the GUP Public Works Department. The name was changed
to LSGED in 1952, when it was attached to Ministry of Local Self Government.
The principal duties and functions of LSGED which are now
assumed by the Nigam are:
(i) Preparation and execution of water supply, drainage, sewage
disposal, and other health works for local bodies; and of
rural water supplies and drainage projects for district
authorities;
(ii) Preparation and execution of health schemes for other
Government departments;
(iii) Inspection and general supervision of all waterworks, sewage
pumping stations, sewage utilization schemes, municipal
owned electric undertakings and other electrical and
mechanical plants installed in Vaccine Depots, etc.;
(iv) Scrutiny of water supply budget of local bodies having
waterworks;
(v) General supervision and advice to local bodies in respect
of recruitment and work of the technical staff;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(vi) Advising State Effluent Board on all public health
engineering matters;
(vii)  Preparation of designs for public health engineering
works;
(viii)  General technical advice on matters relating to public
health engineering work of local bodies and all Government
Departments;
(ix) Supply of forecasts of project costs to local bodies;
(x) Arranging purchase of spare parts, chemicals and other
electrical and mechanical equipments for water works
and local bodies;
(xi) Repairing waterworks plants at request of local bodies;
(xii) Testing and developing of tubewells for the local bodies.
4.        Although local bodies were required to take over commissioned
projects from LSGED and assume responsibility for operations and maintenance,
a number failed to do so, and LSGED was left to continue these responsibili-
ties using GUP capital funds (allocated for other project development) to
finance the works. The Nigam has now assumed these responsibilities, using
projects construction supervision engineers to do the work, in addition to
their normal duties.
5.        LSGED had its head office in Lucknow and 21 regional organizations
called circles, in various towns in the State. The staff establishment of
LSGED before reorganization was 1 chief engineer; 2 additional chief
engineers; 20 superintending engineers; 125 executive engineers; 464
assistant engineers; 1,820 engineering overseers; 380 draftsmen; and 115
computers. The total number of staff members amounted to 4,239 of which
612 were professionals.  The head office was mainly executing staff func-
tions such as project selection, overall planning and project supervision,
training of personnel, research, budgeting and accounting. Each circle
was headed by a superintending engineer and consisted of a varying number
of design and construction divisions. Each circle was given independence
for projects execution, subject to overriding control and authorization of
Head Office for annual budgets and programs. These circles had completed
design work for projects valued at about Rs 40 crores (US$50 million equiv-
alent) awaiting resources allocation by mid-1974.
The Nigam - UP Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation
6.        The Nigam is a planning, regulatory and development finance agency
for the water supply and sewerage sector, and its functions are prescribed
in the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance of May 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        The Managing Director is responsible to the Board, whose members
are: Secretary of Local Self Government (Chairman); Vice-Chairman to be
appointed by the Government; Managing Director and Finance Director of the
Corporation; Secretaries to the State Government in the Finance and Local
Self Government Departments; Commissioner of Local Bodies; Director Medical
and Health Service; and three elected representatives nominated by GUP.
8.        Chart 9307 (Annex 4) shows a proposed organization chart of the Nigam.
Under the Managing Director, there would be four departments - engineering;
finance; personnel and training; and secretary. For projects appraisal a
separate unit is attached to the Managing Director.
9.        The Nigam's auditors would be appointed from commercial firms,
although the GUP Accountant-General would still regularly examine certain
accounting functions.
10.       The Nigam's main functions, which are a major expansion of the
LSGED functions (para 3) can be summarized as:
(i) to promote and ensure the provision of water supply and
sewerage and sewage disposal throughout UP;
(ii) to guide water authorities in the performance of their
functions;
(iii) to perform the functions of the water authorities in
cases where such authorities cannot be appointed or
for any reasons do not function;
(iv) to evolve and implement a technical and financial program
in the water supply and sewerage sector;
(v)  to advise the Government regarding establishment, modi-
fication or abolition of any water authority;
(vi) to review and advise on the tariff, taxes and charges
for water supply and sewerage in the areas under water
authorities; and
(vii) to establish standards of supply and service for water
supply and sewerage.
The Nigam will aim to divest itself of certain functions, which can be
executed in the long term by water authorities, e.g. project design and
construction supervision. It will always retain the powers to execute
these in the event of failure by a responsible authority.
11.       The powers of the Nigam are:
(i) to inspect all water supply and sewerage facilities in
the state, by whomsoever they are operated;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(ii)  to obtain such periodic or specific information from any
local water authority as may be deemed necessary;
(iii)  to oversee and direct all activities of every local
water authority as may be laid under the regulations;
(iv)  to call for and sanction the projects for water supply
and sewerage from every local water authority and obtain
on their behalf finance for the same;
(v) to prescribe the schedule of fees for all services to be
rendered between water authorities and the Nigam;
(vi)  to enter into contract or arrangement with any person,
firm or institution as the Board may deem necessary;
(vii) to approve tariffs for water supply and services;
(viii)  to adopt its own budget annually;
(ix)  to borrow money, issue debentures and manage its own
funds; and
(x) to incur expenditure and to grant loans and advances to
such persons or authorities as may be deemed necessary.
12.       The Nigam's staff will be similar to LSGED (para 5), but expanded
to meet requirements for (i) improved management techniques; (ii) accounting
and financial control; (iii) personnel and training functions; and (iv) Board
administration. The principal engineering staff are public health engi-
neers, supported by electrical and mechanical engineers. Some engineers
will be seconded or transferred to RJSs or KAVAL Jal Sansthans as these
are formed, and this will deplete the original numbers to what will probably
be the long-term size of the Nigam's establishment. Management consultants
will be used by the Nigam to advise on its own and other water authorities'
organizations and managements and until their reports are adopted, the
final staffing will not be known.
13.       In addition to its various planning and design offices, the Nigam
has major workshops where equipment is overhauled and repaired. Limited
research and development activities are undertaken, but these will be ex-
panded to provide facilities for all UP water authorities, as the demand
increases. Certain plant, such as drilling rigs, in limited supply in
India, have been constructed by LSGED, but the Nigam now intends to import,
where necessary, the larger and heavier-duty equipment necessary for de-
velopment and operations.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Consultant Services
14.       For implementation of the project, the Nigam will need consultant
assistance within the fields of engineering, finance, management and training.
15.       The Nigam's engineering staff is well experienced in planning,
design and construction supervision of various water and sewerage works.
However, for water treatment works the practice has been to ask for tenders
both for water treatment plant equipment and for related civil works design.
Such a procedure has not developed an adequate design capability for, nor
critical approach to, water treatment works among the Nigam's staff.
16.       The appraisal mission was joined by Mr. H.E. Hudson, a specialist
in water treatment, to study the existing water treatment works in the KAVAL
towns. His main observations are summarized below:
(i) the pre-treatment is deficient; there is no control over
the alum dosing; and the mixing and flocculation arrangements
are inadequate.
(ii)  the settling tanks are subject to short-circuit currents;
the turbidity for the settled water is exceedingly high; the
filter-run periods are correspondingly short; and the filter
effluent turbidity is unsatisfactorily high.
(iii)  the operational staff is generally more proficient in the
mechanical and electrical field than in water treatment;
pumping plants are normally well maintained; and there is
an apparent lack of understanding of the treatment process.
There is a clear need to uprate the knowledge in the design of treatment
works and to train people in their operation.
17.       Consultants will also be engaged to execute part or all of the
following tasks:
(i) recommend and implement management, organization and
staffing proposals for the Nigam, the RJSs and the
KAVAL Jal Sansthans;
(ii) review and recommend on the financial and resources
generation capacity of Jal Sansthans;
(iii)  prepare tariff studies for Jal Sansthans and any other
areas specified by the Nigam;
(iv)  recommend on the principles of the Nigam's loans fund
operation, including loan terms and conditions to the
various water authorities to which the Nigam may lend,
having regard to the findings in (iii) above;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(v) valuation of all assets and inventories of the Nigam
and Jal Sansthans as at date of formation; and
(vi) preparation of schedules of condition of the water
supply and sewerage systems of Jal Sansthans as at
date of formation.
Training
18.       The Nigam has the responsibility of training all staffs in the
sector, and to do so, will have to develop central and localized training
facilities for all levels of staff. Extensive training is needed for
plant operators and maintenance personnel, together with the introduction
of work programs and planned maintenance. Administrative and accounting
personnel have to be recruited and trained, with consumer services per-
sonnel - meter readers and meter repairers. The Nigam intends to engage
consultants to advise on the entire sector's training requirements and
possible programs, which will be sent to IDA for review and comment. There-
after they will recruit, or transfer existing suitable staff as trainees,
but if necessary, for a short time may hire specialists in certain fields.
Finance and Accounts
19.       The Nigam, to fulfill its role of planning, regulatory and
development finance agency, has initial assets of about Rs 7 crores,
(US$8.75 million equivalent) including Rs 1.6 crores (US$2.0 million
equivalent) working capital which will be made available by GUP.
This would be supplemented by an initial advance of Rs 1.8 crores (US$2.25
million equivalent) from LIC (see para 4.19 of Appraisal Report).
20.       The Nigam will operate an Operational account, a Sector Develop-
ment Account and a Sector Loans Fund. Examples of these are shown as
Tables 1, 2 and 3 to this Annex and are supported by Table 4, Projects
Construction, Deferred Charges and Income Accounts; Table 5, Sources and
Application of Funds Statement; and Table 6, Balance Sheets as at March 31,
1976 through 1979. Only four years' transactions are shown in each Table
because 1978-79 will be the end of the current Five-Year Plan period. The
Nigam will be significantly affected by Five-Year Plans (particularly re-
sources allocations), and it will not be meaningful to forecast the next
Plan period - particularly when the current Plan remains only at draft stage.
21.       The Operations Account records all expenses of staff, management
and organization of the Nigam, divided between (i) projects and sector
work; and (ii) operation of water supply systems of defaulting water authori-
ties or local bodies. This fund will receive fees income from sums recharged
to (i) Construction and Deferred Charges Accounts for projects planning,
design and construction supervision work; (ii) local bodies or water authori-
ties for other direct services rendered, such as provision of management
consulting services; (iii) the Sector Loans Fund for staff time and services
incurred in operation of that fund; and (iv) the Sector Development Account



ANNEX 4
Page 7
in respect of operations and maintenance costs of water supply systems, and
for costs of administering the sector as whole, e.g. costs of inspection
of facilities - or sector-wide tariff studies. Other income could include
rents received, or hire charges for plant and vehicles.
22.       The Sector Loans Fund, which represents a development banking
operation for the sector, is designed to take over all existing external
debt of Jal Sansthans and local bodies which enter into agreements with the
Nigam, and to replace this with Loans from the Nigam to these authorities.
The Nigam would then become the borrower for the sector, and its borrowings
would be guaranteed by GUP. The Nigam will thus be responsible for raising
all new borrowings and to repay these and the existing debt. The local
bodies and Jal Sansthans will repay the Nigam on an annuity basis. The
Nigam has the right to (i) determine the terms and conditions of any advances
it may make; (ii) review and approve local tariffs on behalf of GUP; and (iii)
review the activities and performance of water authorities and take over those
in default. With these powers, and after detailed tariff studies in areas
where loans will be made, the Nigam will determine the onlending rates,
periods and terms of loans with the objective of providing a banking facility
which can steadily expand its provision of new resources to the sector. As
an example, the onlending of Rs 35 crores of the proposed project loans and
grants to the KAVAL Jal Sansthans at 8% or higher could provide the necessary
resources for the rural schemes in the proposed project. Surpluses on the
capital or revenue sections of the fund can be used for reinvestment, or
revenue surpluses only used for Sector Development Account purposes.
23.       The Sector Development Account is designed to show the financing
of the sector by GUP and cross-transfers between constituent authorities.
The transactions shown in Table 3 are limited to the first three RJSs, the
KAVAL Jal Sansthans and Nigam operations, but it will be possible by use of
this fund, providing the regulations 1/ are observed, to annually measure
the financial support to, and within, the sector.
24.       The Projects' Construction and Deferred Charges Accounts show the
annual inputs for construction, planning, design and construction supervision
expenditures, interest during construction, and work-in-progress. The
balances on the Deferred Charges Account are the costs of planning and
design work chargeable to projects construction not yet authorized or
completed. Charges are 1% for projects investigation and 4% for planning
and design on the final construction costs. Construction supervision which
is transferred direct to project construction costs from Operations Account
is at 11% of construction costs.
25.       The Sources and Application of Funds Statements and the Balance
Sheets reflect all operations of the Nigam, which is being encouraged to
regard itself as one multi-purpose entity and not as separate engineering,
financing or administrative units.
1/   Regulations will require that no local body or GUP department, agency
or statutory corporation except the Nigam can transfer any funds for
financing water supply and sewerage services except through the Sector
Development Fund of the Nigam.
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 4
IPDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 1:  Jal Rigam (Uttar Pradesh State Water Supply and Sewerage Levelopeent Corporation)
Operations Account Forecast 1975-76 Through 1978-79
1975-76             1976-77              1977-78              1978-79              Total
- ----------------------------------- Rs Lakhs ---------------------------------------
INCOME
Revenues
Fees Receivable:
Investigations of Projects                                       22.0                25.3                 27.8                 30.6               105.7
Planning, Design and Estimating                                  90.0               103.5                113.5                124.8               431.8
Procurement and Construction                                     93.0               219.6                281.7                176.1               770.4
Sub Total                                205.0                    r               423.0                331.5             1,307.9
Advisory Services                                                10.0                 25.0                40.0                 15.0                90.0
Charges to local bodies for
Oper4tions and Maintenance
of Water Supply Systems                                       17.3                25.6                 31.4                 38.0               11'.3
Other Income       -                                              4.8                 5.2                  5.7                  6.5                22.2
Total Revenues                           237.1               404.2                500.1                391.0             1,532.4
Additional Income
Sector Development Account for Sector
and Project Operations                                            50.0                 50.0                50.0                 50.0               200.0
sector Development Accourt for Water
Supplv Systems Operations                                         60.0                 80.0                90.0                100.0               330.0
Sector Loans Fond for Fund Administration,
Projects Appraisal and Supervision                                23.6                 32.2                57.4                 67.6               180.8
Sub-total                                          162.2                          197.4                217.6               710.8
TOTAL INCOcME                                 370.7                566.4                o752.24
EXPENDITURES
fleas' s Sector end Projects Development
Staff and Labor (including consultants)                         290.5               342.1                364.1                400.5             1,397.2
Travel and Transportation                                        40.0                46.o                 50.6                 59.7               196.3
Maintenance of Premises                                          10.0                 11.5                12.7                 15.0                49.2
Drawing Offices                                                   5.0                  5.8                 6.4                  8.0                25.2
General Offices                                                  15.0                 17.3                19.0                 22.9                74.2
Field Surveys                                                     7.0                 8.1                   8.9                14.0                38.0
Tools and Plant                                                   4.0                  4.6                  5.1                 9.6                23.3
Allowances to Board Members                                       1.0                  1.2                 1.3                  1.5                 5.0
Research and Training                                             2.0                 20.0                40.0                 45.0               107.0
Miscellaneous                                                    12.0                 13.8                15.2                 18.7                59.7
Sub-total                                                    470.4               523.3                594.9            1975.l
Nigan Operation of Water Supply Systems
Repairs and Maintenance                                          12.5                 18.4                20.2                 23.4                74.5
Power                                                            17.5                 25.1                27.6                 32.3               102.5
Chemicals                                                         7.0                 10.6                11.7                 12.8                42.1
Transportation                                                    5.0                  5.8                 6.4                  9.0                26.2
Miscellaneous                                                     6.o                  6.9                 7.6                  9.9                30.4
Sub-total                              --.o                  66.8                 73.5                7                   275.7
Total Operational Expenditures    434.T                    537.2              25.685
Depreciation of Nigam Assets                                          1.5                  2.0                  2.5                 3.0                  9.0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                              436.0                539.2                599.3               685.3              2,259,8
Operational Surplus (Deficit) Before Interest                       (65-3)                27.2                98.2                (76.7)               (16.6)
Interest                                                              1.9                  6.6                12.8                 19.8                41.1
Operational Surplus (Deficit)                                       (67.2)                20.6                85.4                (96.5)               (57.7)
Surplus (Deficit) at Beginning of Year                                -                  (67.2)               (46.6)               38.8
Surplus (Deficit) at End of Year                                    (67.2)               (46.6)               38.8                (57.7)
1/ Salaries and labor costs of operations and maintenance included under Sector and Projects Development
no separate staff maintained for this service.
Source: LSGED
JuLy 18, 1975



ANNEx 4
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEERAGE PROJECT
Table 2: Jal Nigam (Uttar Pradesh State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Development Account
Forecast - 1975-76 Through 1978-79
1975-76       1976-77        1977-78        1978-79         Total
------------------------ Rs Lakhs -------________________
INCOME
UhGovernment
Grants                                                    330.0          650.o          780.0          570.0       2,330.0
Subventions                                                38.9           39.5           67.0          112.6         258.o
Sub-total                             368.9         689.5          847.0          682.6       2,588.0
Other Sources                                                  -              _              _              _             _
Jal Sansthans and Local Bodies
Subventions Repaid                                          _              _
Other Payments to Fund                                      _              _              _
Sub-total
Surpluses Transferred from
Loans Fund Revenue Account                                  _              _              _              _             -
Nigam Operations Account                                    _              _              _             _
Sub-total                                              _              _             _
Transfers from Sector Equalization Fund
TOTAL INCOME                          368.9          689.5          847.0         682.6       29588.0
EXPENDITURES
Grants to              Sector Loans Fund                     220.0          520.0          640.o          420.0       1 ,800.
Jal Sansthans                           _-                            -                    -
Local Bodies                            -              -              -
Sub-total                             220.0          520.0         64000 .0W
Subventions -   to    RJSs - Bundelkhand                      24.3           24.7           41.9          70.4          161.3
Kumaon and Garhwal 3/          14.6           14.8           25.1           42.2          96.7
KAVAL Jal Sansthans                     -              -              -              -             -
Local Bodies                            -              _-                           -             -
Sub-total                              38.9           39.5           67.0         112.6         250.0
Deficits or Defaulting Payments Transferred from:
Loans Fund - Principal Payments         -                             _ 
- Interest Payments         -              -              _
- Fund Deficit              -              -              -              _
Operations - Sector and Projects
Account      Development            50.0           50.0           50.0           50o0         200.0
- Water Supply Systems
Operations            60.0           80.0           90.0         100.0         330.0
Sub-total                             110.0          130.0          140.0         150.0         530.0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                   368.9          689.5          847.0          682.6       2,5W.0
This table shows only the operations in respect of three RJS's, the KAVAL Jal Sansthans and investments in
new schemes in other areas of the State. It excludes any other transaction- relating to local bodies in
areas of the State outside RJS's and KAVAL Jal Sansthans
Subventions or Ways and Means Advances.
Kumaon and Garhwal RJS's support payment assumed at 601o of Bundelkhand RJS payments.
July 18, 19(5                                                                           Source:  Appraisal Mission



ANNIEx 4
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 3I  Jal Niam  (Uttar Prad.a State Water SUPD3Y end Sewerage Devalomnt Corporation)
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Loans Fundyl
Forecast 1975-76 Through 1978-79
1975-76              1976-77              1977-78              1978-79                Total
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- Rs L3khs - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - _-----------------------___
CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS
EXPENDITURES
Loans to Water Supply and Sewerage Aulthoritans
RJS's                                                                     -                  630.0                810.0                 810.0               2,250.0
LiVAL Jel Sanethans                                                       -                  360.0                1080.0               1710.0               3,150.0
Loca. Bodies                                                           1132.0                553.6                 893.7                770.1               3,349.4
JaT Niga                                                                 30.0                 70.0                  90.0                 90.0                 300.0
Sob-total                         1182.0               1613.6               2873.7                3380.1               9,049.4
Repaymneto to Lenders:
cov-rnment                                                               49.0                 53.2                  58.6                 88.4                 249.2
LIC                                                                       2.1                   2.6                  3.0                  7.7                  15.4
Banks
Other
Sub-total                           51.1                 35.8                 61.6                  96.1                2564
Advances (net reduction) for work in Progress                                        (153.0)               764.0                209.0               (1420.0)               (600.0)
Coah Surplus (deficit)ZI                                                                1.0                 20.3                  (8.9_ 10.2                                 22.6
Total Capatal Expenditures        1081.1               2453.7               3135.4                2066.4               8,736.6
INCOME
Loans Received fros:
Government                                                              590.0               1340.0                1750.0               1060.0               4,740o0
LIC.2/                                                                  220.0                520.0                 640.0                420.0               1,800.0
Ranks
Other
Sob-total                          810.0               1860.0               2390 0                1480.0               6,540.0
Greats Received from:
S.ector Developsent Account (eu-GUP)                                    220.0                520.0                 640.0                420.0               1,8oo.o
Other Sources
Sub-total                         1030.0               2380.0               3030.0                1900.0               P,340.0
Loans Fepid by:
RJS's                                                                    13.1                 13.8                 31.9                  55.5                 114.3
KAVAL Jal Sanstbans                                                      38.0                 42.0                 46.9                  70.1                 197.0
Local Bodies                                                              -                   17.9                 26.6                  40.8                  85.3
,7al Nigen
Sub-total                           31.1                 73.7                105.4                 166.4                 39T
Sector Develop-ent Fond (far
Local Bodies in default)                                                           -                               -
Total Capital Incone              1081.1               2453.7               3135.4                2066.4
REVENUE TRANSACTIONS
SXPENDITURES
Interest doe to Lenders:
-overnaent                                                              130.5                182.2                 268.7                348.3                 929.7
LIC                                                                      19.2                 47.9                  92.8                133.7                 293.6
Banks
Other
Sab-total                          149.7                230.1                361.5                482.0                1,223.3
Financing Charges Incurred (0.1% of brrowangs)                                          0.8                  1.9                   2.4                  1.6                   6.7
Nign Operational Fund Charges (2% of Advances)                                         23.6                 32.2                  57.4                 67.6                 180.8
Total Expenditures                 174.1                264.2                421.3                551.2                1,410.5
INCOME
Interest paynents receaved fron:
RJS's                                                                    22.3                  21.4                 39.5                 62.5                  145.7
KRVAL Jal Sansthans                                                     102.0                  99.0                124.8                208.8                  534.6
Local Bodies                                                              -                    79.2                118.0                180.5                  377.7
Jal Nigan                                                                 1.9                   6.6                 12.8                 19.8                   4i.1
Sub-total                          126.2                206.2                295.1                 471.6               1,099.1
Sector Develop=ent Account
(for Local Bodiea iL  default)
Interest Charged to Construction                                                       47.0                 62.0                112.0                 103.0                 324.0
Interest fron Teaporary lnv-ot-ents
Total Income                       173.2                268.2                407.1                 574.6    -          1,423.1
Surplus (Deficit) for Year Transferred to Sector Development Fund                                              -                     -
Surpusa (Deficit) for Year                                                               (0.9)                 4.0                 (14.2)                23.4                   12.3
Surplus (Deficit) at Beginaing of Year                                                    -                   (0.9)                  3.1                (11.1)
Surplus (Deficit) Carried Forward at End of Year                                         (0.9'                 3.1                 (11.1)                12.3
1/ This Table Bhows only the operations in respect of thb three RJS's, the RAVAL Jal Sasnthans and sew schoens in other areas of ths State.
It excludes any transactions relating to existing debt in areas of the State outside h.7S's and the 7AVAL Jal Sansthans.
2/ Cash surpluses or defioits are included in cash balances in Statenent of Eouroes and Applications of Funds.
3/ Includes RS 180 Lakhs initial advance in 1975/76 to be elimisated by 1977/78.
Julv 18, 1975                                                                                                                             Souroec  Appraisal  Misaion



INDIiA - UTTAR PRAD)E3H WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEPAGE PROJECT
Table 4: Jal Nigam (Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
Forecast of Projects Implementation EKpenitures Deferred Charges and Inpome 1975-76 Through 1978-79
1975-76                                 1976-77                                 1977-78                                 1978-79
---------------------------------------------------------- R. Lskh ------------ -- -             _
A. E3NDITURES. WORK IN PHOOGRES, WORKS CONMISSIONED
Construction Expenditures  - ID&/LIC  sub-projects                                   573.3                                    1346.4                                  1744.2                                   1080.9
Other Schemes                                           273.7                                    649.6                                   816.8                                    520.1
Interest during construction                                                           47.0                                     62.0                                   112.0                                    103.0
From Deferred Charges:
Investigation                                             8.4                                     20.0                                    25.6                                      16.0
Planning, Design and Estimating                          33.6                                     80.0                                   102.4                                     64.o
Procurement and construction supervision                                               93.0                                    219.6                                   281.7                                     176.1
Sub-Total Projects expenditures in year                1029.0                                   2377.6                                  3082.7                                    1960.1
Add Work-in-Progress at beginning of year                                             600.0                                    447.0                                  1211.0                                    1420.0
Sub-Total                                              1629.0                                   2824.6                                  4293.7                                    3380.1
Deduct Work-in-Progress at end of year                                                447.0                                   1211.0                                  1420.0
WORMS COMMISSIONED IN ElAR AND TRiNSFERREC
To Jal Sansthans; local bodies                         1182.0                                   1613.6                                  2873.7                                    3380.1
B. WORKS COOUSSIONED IN YEAR FINANCED BY:
Advances from Sector Loans Fund                                                      1182.0                                   1613.6                                  2873.7                                    3380.1
Capital Pay ents by Jal Sansthans; local bodies                                        _                                        _                                       _                                         _
Grants from Sector Development FuPnd
Other Services
TOTAL FINANCING                                        1182.0                                   1613.6                                  2873.7                                    3380.1
C. DIFDM CHARGES
IN7E2TIGATIONS   PLANNING, DESIGN        INVESTIGATIONS   PLAllNRG]. DESIGN      INVESTIGATIONS   PLANNIR, DESIGN         INVESTIGATIOIS   PlIANING. D8IGN
Expenditures
Charges from Nigam Operations Accoo:t           22.0               90.0                   25.3             103.5                  27.8              113.5                  30.6             124.8
Income
Recoveries from Projects
(Section A above)                             8.4               33.6                   20.0              80.0                  25.6              102.4                  16.o              64.0
Under (over) Recovery for year                                                13.6               56.4                    5.3              23.5                   2.2               11.1                  14.6              60.8
Add (Deduct) Amounts under (over) recovered from previous years               40.0              160.0                   53.6             216.4                  58.9              239.9                  61.1             251.0
Total Under (Over) Recovery at
end of Year                               53.6              216.4                   56.9             239.9                  61.1              251.0                  75.7             311.8
Deduct transfers of surplus to Sector Development  ooun.                                                                         -                    -
Net Balance carried forward                     53.6              216.4                   58.9             239.9                  61.1              251.0                  75.7             311.8
Jc1.g 18, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                          Scores: Appraisal Missios



AMWvX 4
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
.Table 5:  Jai Nigam (Uttar Pradesh State Water Sapply and Sewerage Developmert Cbrporation)
Sources and Application of Funds Statement
1975-76       1976-77        1977-78       1978-79         Total
--------------------------Rs Lakhs-----------------------____
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Onerotions Account Revenues                                  32.1           55.8          77.1           59.5           224.5
OTJP Contributions for Working Capital                      265.0                                         - -  -        265.0
Grants                                                      330.0          650.o         780.0          570.0         2,330.0
Subventions from Government                                  38.9           39.5          67.0          112.6           258.0
Subventions Repaid by Jal Sansthans, Local Bodies             _
Loans Received                                              810.0         1860.0        2390.0         1480.0         6,540.0
Loans Repaid by Jal Sansthans, Local Bodies                  51.1           73.7         105.4          166.4           396.6
Interest Repaid by Jal %ansthans, Local Bodies              124.3          199.6         282.3          451.8         1,058.0
Increase (Decrease) in Payables                             146.5          160.2          92.2          (95.0)          303.9
TOTAL SOURCES                    1797.9         3038.8        3794.0         2745.3       11,376.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Operations Account Expenditures                             434.5         537.2          596.8          682.3         2,250.8
Jal Sansthans Working Capital                               100.0            -                            -             100.0
Construction Expenditures                                   847.0        1996.0         2561.0         1601.0         7,005.0
Subventions to Jal Sansthans                                 38.9           39.5          67.0          112.6           258.0
Debt Service
Interest - Loans taken over                          124.3         120.4          116.6          113.8           475.1
- New Loans                                 25.4          109.7          244.9         368.2           o48.2
Principal - Loans taken over                           51.1          55.8           61.6           67.0           235.5
- New Loans                                  -              -              -            29.1            29.1
Increases (Decreases) in - Inventories                       20.0           22.0          24.0           27.0            93.0
- Receivables                      44.3           25.7          31.0           56.2           1.72
Financing Charges         - Loans Fund                        0.8            1.9           2.4            1.6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               1686.3        2908.2         3705.3         3058.8         11358.6
Cash Surplus (Deficit) for Year                                111.6          130.6          88.7         (313.5)           1'7.4
Balance at Beginning of Year                                     -            111.6         242.2          330.9
Balance at End of Year                                         111.6          242.2          330.9          17,4
..~l.v 18, 1975                                                          Source: Appraisal Mission
july i8, 1975



ANNEX 4
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FRCJECT
Table 6:  Jal Nigam (Uttar Pradesh State Water Supply and Sewerage Development Corporation)
Balance Sheets as at March 3t 1975 through 1979
Year ended March 31                                                1976                 1977                  1978                  1979
---------------------------- Rs Lakhs ---------___________
ASSETS AND OUTLAY
Current Assets
Cash Surplus (deficit)                                                       111.6                242.2                33C.9                   17 
Short Term Loans
Short Term Investments
Receivables                                                                   44.3                  70.0                101.0                 157.2
Inventories                                                                  220.0                242.0                 266.0                 293.0
Sub Total - Current Assets                      375.9                554.2                 697.9
Deferred Charges to Jal Sansthans
Fees Receivable on Completion of Projects                                    270.0                298.8                 312.1                 387.5
Consultants Fees for Reorganization Studies                                   25.0                 75.0                 125.0                 170.0
Projects Work in Progress                                                    447.0               1211.0                1420.0
Sub Total                                       742.0               1584.8               1857.1                  557.5
Outstanding Loans
RJS's                                                                        358.6                974.8               1752.9                 2507.4
KAVAL Jal Sansthans                                                         1691.0               2009.0                3042.1                4682.0
Local. Bodies                                                               1132.0               1667.7               2534.8                 3264.1
Sub Total - Outstanding Advances               3181.6               4651.5               7329.8                10453.5
Advances to RJN's for Working Capital                                             100.0                100.0                100.0                  100.0
Fixed Assets
Buildings, Plant and Machinery                                                60.0                 80.0                 120.0                 165.0
Less Accumulated Depreciation                                               1.5                  3.5                  6.0                    9.0
Net Assets                                                                    58.5                 76.5                 114.0                 156.0
TOTAL ASSETS AND OUTLAY                        4458.0               6967.0              10Oi39                 117<4.6
LIABILITIES. EQUITY AND SURPLUSES
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loans
Payables                                                                     146.5                306.7                 398.9                 303.9
Sub Total - Current Liabilities                 146.5                306.7                 398.9                 303.9
Long Term Debt
Government - Loans taken over                                               1897.2               1844.0               1785.4                 1721.6
- New Loana                                                     1190.0               2530.0               4980.0                 5315.4
LIC         - Loans taken over                                               152.4                149.8                 146.8                 143.6
- New Loans                                                      220.0                740.0               1380.0                1795.5
Banks
Other
Sub Total - Long Term Debt                     3459.6               5263.8               7592.2                0c76.
Equity. Grants and Surpluses
Government Contribution                                                      700.0                700.0                 700.0                 700.0
Government Grants                                                            220.0                740.0                1380.0                1800.0
Surpluses (Deficits) on: Sector Development Account                           -                    -                      -                     _
Operations Account                               (67.2)               (46.6)                38.8                  (57.7)
Sector Loans Fund                                 (0.9)                 3.1                 11,1                   12.3
TOTAL LIABILITTES AND SURPLUSES                4458.o               6967.o              10098.8               11734.6
.Jul- 18, 1975                                                                                                                              Source:  Appraisal Mission






;tCI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                                                                  -bIWO.Ag 
[ _ _  z   T           |  E                        [ _ _-T  --J                t                                 r    j c                          r     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----    ---
............................  ......  .. ..............
W~~~~~~~~
I  ~                              ~                                                               -                                                                     I






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of Regional Jal Sansthans and KAVAL Towns Jal Sansthans
1.        The sub-projects, which form the proposed project, will be
constructed in the areas of the Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal Regional
Jal Sansthans and in the five KAVAL towns. These eight Jal Sansthans will
have the responsibility of operating and maintaining the works commissioned
from the sub-projects to be designed and constructed by the Nigam, together
with all existing water supply and sewerage systems within their administra-
tive boundaries. Detailed reviews of these authorities will be provided to
IDA and LIC in Nigam technical reports, when IDA will be able to comment on
the organizations and performances - actual and forecast - before sub-
projects are financed.
Regional Jal Sansthans
2.        Under the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance of
May 1975, GUP will establish three Regional Water Authorities (RJSs) in
the Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal Districts. The Nigam has the respon-
sibility of forming, organizing and staffing the RJSs.
Organization and Staffing
3.        Chart 9308 (Annex 5) shows an outline proposal for organization
of a Regional Jal Sansthan. Until consultants have made recommendations
to the Nigam, the final form will not be known. Under a General Manager
there could be three departments for engineering, finance and administra-
tion. The General Manager would be responsible to the Board, whose members
would be: a chairman to be appointed by the Government; the General Man-
ager; a District Collector; a representative from the Nigam; and three
elected representatives from local bodies within the area of jurisdiction
of the RJS.
4.        RJSs will initially be staffed by transfer of staff members from
local bodies' water works within the regions. The local bodies will then
cease to have responsibility for these services. Additional staff will be
provided from the Nigam, or will be recruited and trained. It is envisaged
that before the RJSs obtain sufficient numbers of staff with adequate ex-
perience, the Nigam will have to carry out some of their duties and respon-
sibilities.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Functions
5.        A Jal Sansthan's functions are as follows:
(i)  to promote and operate efficient systems of water supply,
sewerage, sewage treatment and disposal, sanitation and
drainage;
(ii)  to establish, take over, construct, reorganize, operate
and maintain water supply and sewerage facilities in the
water district(s) within its jurisdiction;
(iii) to regulate the drilling of tubewells and control the
withdrawal of groundwater;
(iv)  to protect water bodies from pollution; and
(v)  to manage all affairs so as to provide the people within
the jurisdiction with wholesome water and efficient
sewerage services.
Powers
6.        A Jal Sansthan's powers are as follows:
(i)  to take over all the existing responsibilities, power,
controls, facilities, services and administration from
respective local body or authority and to manage water
supply, sewerage and sewage disposal so as to provide
the people with wholesome water and efficient sewerage
services;
(ii)  to acquire, possess and hold lands and property for
purposes of water and sewage works;
(iii) to abstract water from any natural source and dispose
of waste water;
(iv)  to enter into contract or arrangement with any person;
(v)  to adopt its own budget annually subject to the
concurrence of the Nigam;
(vi)  to introduce or amend tariff for water supply and
sewerage services, subject to approval by the Nigam
and collect all taxes and charges for their services,
as may be prescribed;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(vii) to incur expenditure and manage their own funds; and
(viii) to obtain loans, advances and subventions from the Nigam.
Operations and Maintenance
7.        The primary objective is to construct for each RJS a complete
operations and maintenance organization under a Chief Operations Engineer,
probably based on district centers, with a consumer service organization
for meter reading and repairs, billing and collection arrangements. Ini-
tially, the Nigam circle offices and sub-offices will be used where suitable,
until the Nigam and the consultants can decide on the most suitable locations
to maximize the benefits for consumer services. It is possible that Nigam
staff may service Nigam and RJS's until the first phase of reorganization is
complete. This will be about mid-1977. Some operation, maintenance and
consumer arrangements in rural areas are expected to be experimental, because
there is no experience in maintaining water supply systems in rural areas
on the proposed scale.
Capital Works
8.        It is expected that after 5-7 years the better developed RJSs
will commence designing and constructing minor capital works, leaving the
Nigam to execute their larger projects. Subsequently, if the Nigam is
satisfied with the RJSs' capability and capacity, they may execute all
capital works. However, the loan finance for such works will be channelled
through the Nigam.
Accounts and Audit
9.        The accounts of the RJSs will be maintained on a commercial
(accruals) basis by a Chief Accounts Officer and will be subject to periodic
supervision by Nigam inspection staff. Commercial auditors will be engaged
to audit the financial statements and balance sheets, and the GUP Accountant-
General will also audit the accounts. The RJSs will annually present typical
public-utility-type Income Statements and Sources and Application of Funds
Statements (Tables 1 and 2) with Balance Sheets. The tables shown are formal
demonstration tables only. Until Nigam appraisals are prepared and sub-
sequently the consultants' reports implemented (para 3.05 of Appraisal
Report) it will not be possible to provide an accurate picture of RJSs'
finances.
Assessment of RJSs' Financial Capacities
10.       All Jal Sansthans are required by law to review and adjust their
rates of taxes and charges to cover the cost of operations and maintenance,
and debt service. When the RJSs take over all water supply and sewerage
systems in their areas (para 1) schedules of condition and valuations of
assets will be prepared. Until the former are available, it will not be



ANNEX 5
Page 4
possible to fully assess the financial commitments of an RJS, because many
systems in small towns are known to be in very poor condition and some equip-
ment inoperable. Concurrently with the preparation of the above schedules,
tariff studies will be carried out and the combined data used to determine
the impact on rates and taxes of the IDA requirement that the costs of oper-
ations and maintenance and debt service of existing systems should be met
by RJSs consumers in 1977/78, and the future obligation for each RJS to
finance all such costs for all systems by 1982/83. Until these targets
are achieved RJSs will receive support subsidies from the Nigam Sector
Development Account (Annex 4).
Debt Service and Interest Rates
11.       Existing rural schemes of RJSs are debt free, having been financed
by GUP grants; only urban systems have debt service obligations. The IDA
proposal in para. 6.09 of the appraisal report, is that RJSs should be
required to meet a debt service of 3% per annum over 25 years for the pro-
posed rural sub-projects, until the results of tariff studies determine the
local potential of consumers to pay for water. This will almost certainly
mean that Nigam support subsidies will be required for RJS debt service pay-
ments prior to 1982/83. However, it is proposed that when the recommenda-
tions of the tariff studies are agreed between IDA, LIC and the Nigam, the
interest rate and terms of advances by the Nigam to RJSs will be amended to
reflect the latters' potential financing capacity.
KAVAL Towns Jal Sansthans
Legislation and Powers of Municipal Corporations
12.       The UP Municipal Corporations Act 1959, which authorizes these
corporations to provide water supply and sewerage services within their
municipal boundaries, has been amended by the UP Water Supply and Sewerage
Ordinance 1975 which will require, inter alia, that (i) the Municipal Corpora-
tions set up separate water supply and sewerage departments and funds, to
which all revenues for these services must be paid, and from which all
expenses of these services must be met; and (ii) water and sewerage taxes
will be excluded from existing limits on municipal taxation (currently all
municipal taxes taken together shall not be less than 10%, nor more than
25%, of the total rental value of properties in the municipality). The
amendments tighten up the financial operations of KAVAL towns' water supply
and sewerage services, but IDA and LIC will require that before sub-proj-
ects can be financed in any area of the state, such area shall be desig-
nated a Jal Sansthan by GUP under the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance
of May 1975.  This will also have the effect of bringing the KAVAL towns'
water supply and sewerage services under the requirements, rules and regu-
lations, including the Nigam's monitoring and regulatory functions.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Water Supply and Sewerage Departments
13.       The mayor and elected members of KAVAL towns, with the UP appointed
chief executive officer, will retain overall control of their water supply
and sewerage services, but their water supply and sewerage departments, as
Jal Sansthans, will be effectively separated from other municipal activities,
and will be under control of an engineer/manager, with the additional chief
accountant to assist. As in RJSs, their primary responsibility will be
efficient operation and maintenance with all the functions and powers of a
Jal Sansthan (paras 5 and 6 above). Departmental organization will be
advised on by the Nigam, and is expected to follow a similar design as
for RJSs with the exception of elimination of district centers. Charts
9309 (Annex 3) and 9310 (Annex 5) show for Lucknow as an example existing
and an outline proposal for an organization. KAVAL towns are expected to
require some decentralization of consumer service functions. The Nigam is
expected to transfer or second certain key engineering staff to the KAVAL
Jal Sansthans to provide support to the present lower calibre staffs in
these towns.
Accounts and Audit
14.       Regulations under the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Ordinance of
May 1975 will prescribe the form of accounts and require each Jal Sansthan,
including the KAVAL town to establish a Water Supply and Sewerage Fund. IDA
will be invited to review and comment on new regulations to be introduced,
which should include requirements for commercial and accruals accounting.
The audit arrangements will be as for RJSs (para 9).
Assets Valuations and Tariff Studies
15.       The preparation of schedules of condition, valuation of assets
and tariff studies will be undertaken as for RJSs (para 10).
Financial Forecasts, Rates of Return on Net Fixed
Assets in Operation and Working Capital
16.       Detailed studies of past and projected performance of each KAVAL
town by the appraisal mission show that all have considerable cash deficits,
collection at only 50% of receivables in three cases; and inadequate rates
of taxes and consumer charges. The Nigam's appraisal reports will review
each Jal Sansthan's finances in detail, but to ensure that the KAVAL towns
are encouraged to take early action to remedy these deficiencies, IDA would
require (i) the KAVAL town should achieve specified targets of financial
performance in 1977/78, 1979/80 and 1982/83 (para 6.17 of appraisal report);
and (ii) GUP would ensure that each water supply and sewerage fund was pro-
vided on the date of its establishment with adequate working capital, includ-
ing cash (para 6.12 of appraisal report).
July 18, 1975



Note:  This is a demorstration table only.
Accurate and refined data will not be
available until presented in Jal Nigam
INDIA                                                       appraisal reports.
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SWERAGE PROJECT
Table 1: Bundelkhand Jal Sansthan
Forecast of Incorm  statements 1975-76 Through 1982-83
1975-76       1976-77       1977-78        1978-79       1979-80        1980-81        1981-62          1982-83
Persons served                                               432.000       479,000        619,000       800,000        980,000       990,000        1,000,000       1,000,000
----I---------------------Rs Lakhs --------------------------
Revenues                                                        10.0           15.0          30.0           60.0         100.0         120.0            160.0            200.0
Operating Expenditures
Staff and Labor                                                8.9           10.6          12.3           18.2          28.2           31.0            34.1             37.5
Repairs and Maintenance                                        2.1            2.5           7.0          17.8           37.2          40.9             45.0             49.5
Power arx Fuel                                                 5.1           6.9           11.2          21.5           37.7          41.5             45.6             50.2
Chemicals                                                      1.4            1.8           2.8            4.9           8.4            9.2            10.2             11.2
Vehicles and Equipment                                         1.2            1.9           1.9            2.6           3.8            4.2             4.6              5.1
Office Admdnistration                                          1.4            1.7           1.9            2.4           3.1           3.4              3.7              4.1
Miscellaneous                                                  0.8            1.0           1.3            1.5           1.8            2.0             2.2              2.4
Purchase of Bl3k Water Supplies                                0.8            0.9           1.0            1.1           1.2           1.3              1.4              1.6
Total Operating Expenditures                              21.7           27.3          39.4          70.0          121.4         133.5            146.8            161.6
Depreciation                                                     34.2                        12.9           2.1           35.4           35.4            35.4             35.4
25.2 31.5 5~~~2 . 3   94.1                                     1-68.9           182.219.
Net Income (Loss) before Interest                              (15.2)         (16.5)        (22.3)         (34.1)        (56.8)         (48.9)          (22.2)             3.0
Interest                                                         7.4            7.1          17.4           30.4          43.0           41.7            40.4             39.1
Net Income (Loss)                                              (22.6)         (23.6)        (39.7)         (64.5)        (99.8)         (90.6)           (62.6)          (36.1)
-       -----------         -----------------------Rs ------_____________-_____-_________________________
Per Capita Operating Costs                                       5.02          5.70          6.36            8.75          12.38          13.48           14.68           16.16
Per Capita Operating Costs including Depreciation                5.83          6.57          8.45           11.76          16.00          17.06           18.22           19.70
Per Capita Revenues                                              2.31          3.13          4.85           7.50           10.20          12.12           16.00           20.00
Per Capita Incomes for Region at Current Prices
Assuming 8.5% growth rate, (which can be considered
conservative)                                                917.00        995.00      1,081.00        1,172.00       1,271.00      1,380.00         1,497.00        1,624.00
Percentage of per Capita Operating Costs, including
Depreciation,to per Capita incomes                             o.64,%        o.66%         0.78%           1.00%          1.25%          1.24%            1.22%          1.31%
Percentage of per capita reverues to per capita incomes          0.25%         0.31%         0.45%           0.64%          o.80%          0.88%           1.07%           1.33%
July 18, 1975                                                                                                                                Source: LSGED



Note: This is a demontration table only,
Accurate and refined data will not be
INDIA                                                                                       av-ilable until presented in Jl Nigaz
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AlD SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                    apprisal -p-t
Table 2: Bondelkhand Jal Scnsthan
Stst-nt of Sourrs and Applicatiun of Funds 1975-76
throngh 1982-83_/
1975-76               1976-77               1977-78               1978-79                1979-80               1980-81                1981-82                1982-83
Net Income  (Loss) before Interest                                                   (15.2)                (16.5)                (22.3)                 (34.1)                (56.8)                 (48.9)                (22.2)                   3.0
Add Depreciation                                                                       3.5                   4.2                  12.9                   24.1                  35.4                   35.4                  35.4                   35.4
Interval Cash Ceneration (Dofiuit)                                                   (11.7)                (12.3)                 (9.4)                 (10.0)                (21.4)                 (13.5)                (13.2)                 (32.4)
Equity Contributio  (W-orking Capital) by Jalllx_                                     50.0                   -                      -                     -                     -                      -                     -                      -
Debt Service - Interest                                                          7.4                    7.1                  17.4                  30.4                   43.0                  41.7                   40.4                  39.1
- Repsymeats of Principal                                          5.2                   5.3                  15.1                   30.0                  41.1                  42.4                   43.7                   45.0
Sub-total Debt Service                                   12.6                   12.4                  32.5                  60.4                   84.1                  84.1                   84.1                  84.1
Working Capital - Increases in Inventories                                        5.0                   5.0                   1.0                    1.0                   2.0                   1.0                    0.5                    0.5
Rl...ivablea                                   2.0                    1.1                   3.0                   6                      8.0                   4.0                    8.0                   8.0
7.5                   6.8                   4.0                    7.0                  10.0                   5.0                    8.5                    8.3
Increases (Decreases) in Payable.                                                2,0                   (1.0)                  1.0                   2.0                    2.0                   0.5                    0.5                   0.5
Net Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                                       5.5                    7.8                   3.0                   5.0                    8.0                   4.5                    8.0                    8.0
Net Cash S-epls (Deficit) to be A-utilized or B-finansed by:                         20.2                  (32.5)                (44.9)                (75.4)                (113,5)               (102.1)                 (78.9)                 (59.7)
A. Cash Utilization
(i)  Capital Exeenditore Contribstiaa (transfer to                                                       \
Jal Nigam)
(ii) Sector Eqsalization FPnd
(iii)Other
Total UtIlization
B.  Deficit Financing
Support Payments by Jal Niigam                                              24.3                  24.7                   41.9                  70.4                 105.5                   97.6                   70.9                  51.7
Cash Sarplus (Deficit) for Year                                                       44.5                   (7.8)                 (3.0)                 (5.0)                  (8.0)                 (4.5)                  (8.0)                  (8.0)
Cash at Beginning of Year                                                              -                    44.5                   36.7                  33.7                   28.7                  20.7                   16.2                    8.2
Cash at End of Year                                                                   44.5                  36.7                   33.7                  28.7                   20.7                  16.2                    8.2                    0.2
1/ Note:  Project expenditures and Loans will apear in Jal Nigam Statements.
No cash transactions for capital eapssditurea wlll occur in RJS's.
SJurce LSGED
Jul~- 16. 17.,






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
REGIONAL JAL SANSTHAN
RECOMMENDED ORGANIZATION
I      BOARD
EXTERNAL AUDIT
RAL
MANAGER
...N AL......                                                                                                           I
SECRETARY
CHIEF '                                                                  C HI E-                       F-IEF
FINACHEF                                                              |    ENGIN EERING                                                             ADMINISTRATION j
| FPLANCIAL   ] L    ACCOUNTING                  CASHIER               DEVELOPMENT                                       OPERATION             ADMINISTRATION              CUSEOMER                TRAINING
TA IFFS                 COLLECTION                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPERATION OF
FORECASTS                                                                                      WATER SU.P_,ILN  COLLECTION                                                 C EU PLANNING  W   SPL  SENRVICE  PERSONNEL_
____________  I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~SCHEMES J
BUDGETARY                COSTING                PAYMENTS                  DESIGNLABORATORY                                                      CLERICAL AND                                 '4EXTERNAL
I                                                                                                       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGNESUTILITY SERVICES~]
LOANSl                                                                               WATER AND                                    [- 7  E~ALTH~
ACCOUNSTINL   CONSTRUCTION                                                                          SEWAGE                PROCUREMENT         U    EDUCATION
j    FINAL    l                                                                             1  PUMPING PLANTS            CACONTRACTS
ACCOUNTSI
|TRANSMI SSION
AND DISTRISUTION
| MAINS
-|SEWERAGE SYSTEMS|
F c-- !o~lr  1975I
1 .e flevPlop !   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ t   METERING
Wora. -I Rz, 930812






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LUCKNOW MUNICIPAL CORPORATION JAL SANSTHAN
RECOMMENDED ORGANIZATION (FROM 1976)
| Ahh fla MA
I-.
Cg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 1                                                                                                              t-
L, .
IS3  Epace 3Co1 [--r-p rome,3                                                                                                                  -9
Pl . ce                  AP,pO.h                 Cs,e                            ,                                             _                                                               P~e                     h,e,h
{   1   {X3  _<  t X t 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAO,P,                                                            Ohwehecin |r 1Poreal|-rr--
{ 93 It 4 DeJ+sn | | ~~~*                D  g   |        W15 |--   |                                                                 0000,0, PhOhMt                                            1- --
Pe            CP,h                   hopoPPo.lo                [     I        L.Jtuc on  i  |                                       -e ramn    - | S g e  -   |oO C'                                   I tL9Ce |
_1    1  _- _noaoeo _cpe _   _
*~~~~~~~~| upn  n5|
r-..---i~ ~~~~~~~~~ Ir I                                                                                  F0 PnnFM
OOPPPMPOoA ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      srt Ir ed  00  O,,P00hpopecHSPA                                                 -
I   L~~---i  I    L   A                                                                                      Peoe~ hoPeoeg  J
FrDm Fommation of the                        I 
* _ _. T obe Dg feloPfd






ANNEX 6
Page I
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Population and Water Demand Projections, and Design Criteria
Population
1.        Enumeration of the population in India occurs every ten years
with the latest census in 1971. Data on present and past population have
been extracted from "Census of India 1971 - Uttar Pradesh - A Portrait of
Population." The relative position of Uttar Pradesh (UP) might best be
demonstrated by comparing it with the population in India and in the world:
World - 3,632 million; India - 548 million; and Uttar Pradesh - 88 million.
Uttar Pradesh is the most populated state in India with 16% of India's
population.
2.        The area of Uttar Pradesh is 294,413 km2.  In India, Uttar
Pradesh stands fourth in terms of area and ninth in terms of population
density. The density (people/km2) in the State varies and it is in the
plains between 365 and 600, and lower than 100 in the Hill Region.
3.        The population of India, in the decade 1961-71, increased from
439 to 548 million. This gives a percentage decadal variation of 24.8%
and an annual arithmetic growth rate of 2.48%. Corresponding growth rate
for Uttar Pradesh is 1.98%. If an annual geometric growth rate is applied,
the population increases for India and Uttar Pradesh are 2.23% and 1.82%
respectively.
4.        The population in Uttar Pradesh is about 86% rural and 14% urban.
An urban area is defined as (i) all places with a Municipality, Corporation,
Cantonment or Notified Area, or (ii) all other places satisfying the fol-
lowing criteria (a) a minimum population of 5,000, (b) a density of popu-
lation of at least 400 per km2.
5.        The villages, based on the size of their populations can be
broadly divided into four categories - 1. small (population less than
500), 2. medium (500-1,999), 3. large (2,000-4,999), and 4. very large
(5,000 and above). The total number of villages in UP amounts to 112,561
and the largest number are in category 1, followed by those in category 2.
The average population of a village is 675 for UP, with 806 for Bundelk-
hand, 236 for Kumaon and 180 for Garhwal.
6.        The towns have been classified in seven classes on the basis of
population.  Almost 60% of the urban population is living in towns (22 in



ANNEX 6
Page 2
number) with a population exceeding 100,000 (Class 1). The average decadal
growth rate (1961-1971) in urban areas was 30.68%; while corresponding
growth rate for Class 1 towns, including KAVAL towns, was higher at 37.00%.
7.        Present and projected population in Bundelkhand is shown in
Annex 2, table 1. Of the total population 85% is rural and 15% urban.
The decadal growth rate (1961-1971) was 22.65% for urban and rural, combined,
and 21.05% for rural only. The latter being slightly higher than the State
average, 18.25%. Considering the trend of population growth during the last
seven decades the growth of rural population during 1971-2001 has been
assumed at 50% or 16.6% per decade. The population density would subse-
quently increase from 143 to 214. The present rural population resides in
4,517 villages, of which 1,085 villages have a population of more than 1,000.
8.        Present and projected population in Kumaon and Garhwal is shown
in Annex 2, Table 1. Of the total population 80.5% is rural and 19.5% is
urban. The decadal growth rate (1961-71) was 24.4%, which is somewhat
higher than for Bundelkhand. Considering the massive urbanization due to
migration from rural areas the growth rate of the rural population during
1971-2001 has been assumed at 50% or 16.6% per decade. The population
density would subsequently increase from 117 to 175. The present rural
population resides in 11,458 villages.
9.        Present and projected population for the KAVAL towns is shown in
Annex 3, Table 1. Past and projected percentage decadal growth rates are
summarized below:
Decadal Growth Rate
1961-71     1971-81      1981-91      1991-2001
Kanpur             31           34          32             26
Agra               25           26          31             37
Varanasi           24           28          36             30
Allahabad          19           45          56             29
Lucknow            24           22         35             45
Average            26           35          37             33
The Nigam has studied the projected increase in population for each of the
KAVAL towns. Various methods have been applied such as, arithmetical,
geometrical, comparison with other cities, graphical interpolation, and
birth, death and immigration rate. Conclusions have been reached in col-
laboration with town planning authorities after consideration of forecast
increases in industrial activities and employment opportunities.



ALNNEX 6
Page 3
Water Demand
10.       Projected water demand for Bundelkhand, Garhwal and Kumaon is
shown in Annex 2, Table 2. Present and projected water demand for the KAVAL
towns is shown on Annex 3, Table 1.
11.       The per capita water consumptions through the design year 2001 for
the Bundelkhand, Kumaon and Garhwal have been assumed as follows: 70 l/c.d.
for villages with a design population of less than 4,000, where service
connections are expected; 50 1/c.d. for small villages where none or only
a few service connections are expected; and 90 l/c.d. for villages with a
design population exceeding 4,000. In Annex 2, Table 2 a water consumption
of 70 1/cd has been assumed as an average for the villages included in the
project. The water supply should meet the needs for bathing, washing,
cooking and cleaning, but would not provide for industries or fire reserves.
The ultimate number of service connections is estimated to cover about 20%
of the population. For computation of the operating costs the average
consumption is assumed to be 75% of above maximum consumptions.
12.       The present water consumption in the KAVAL towns varies between
160 to 230 1/cd. The figures have been derived by dividing total water
production by population served. There are no bulk measurement devices
and most service connections are unmetered - or have unserviceable meters -
therefore, the past and present water production and consumption cannot
be accurately ascertained. For future demand, the maximum day rate for
domestic consumption has been assumed at 225 and 270 1/cd respectively
for population less than, and exceeding 1,000,000. For industrial supply
a water consumption per hectare will be assumed, varying with type of
industry. The average water consumption will be computed by applying the
factors 0.80 or 0.75 depending on the consumption pattern in each town.
Design Criteria
13.       Generally civil works, which cannot readily be extended, are
designed for 30 years, and civil works, which can readily be extended,
are designed for 10 to 15 years. Electrical and mechanical equipment
is designed for 10 to 15 years. For rural projects extendable units such
as filter and settling tanks and storage tanks are designed for 30 years
where a 10 year's design period would give uneconomically small units.
Transmission mains to be laid in areas with difficult laying conditions
(Kumaon and Garhwal) are likewise designed for a 30 year period. In
places where ground water exploration is feasible the development of
tubewells is proposed to be phased in periods of 5 years. For each sub-
project the phasing of the various civil works components and equipment
and material supply has been, or will be studied for achieving least -
cost solutions.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
14.       The Nigam has established various water and sewerage works design
criteria such as settling and filtration rates, storage capacities, deten-
tion times, velocities in water pipes and sewers, and pressure in distribu-
tion systems. The design criteria comply with normal practice but will be
reviewed again, particularly by consultants engaged for water treatment
designs (Annex 4).
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Outline of Typical Technical (Appraisal) Report by the Jal Nigam
1.   Description of area of Jal Sansthan.
2.   Description of any existing water supply and sewerage systems,
including capacities and significant data.
3.   Description of Jal Sansthan
e.g. Regional; or
Nagar Mahapalika;
including Organization Chart referring particularly to the
Divisions or Sections having responsibility for sub-project
operation and maintenance.
4.   Description of Nigam's design and construction circles to be
responsible for execution of the sub-project.
5.   Brief description of Master Plan for water district including
population and demand project, design criteria, and review of
alternative solutions and reasons for selection of sub-
project solution.
6.   The Sub-Project
(i)  Description          (a)  General
(b) Technical
(ii) Cost Estimates, including
Basic cost, giving year of base;
Engineering costs;
Physical contingencies; and
Price contingencies giving annual provisions.
(iii) Bar chart of activities, showing critical activities.
(iv) Foreign and local cost estimates including import
duties etc.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(v)  Commentary on proposed procurement method and
procedures, including schedules of goods and
equipment acquired by advance procurement for
which IDA/LIC disbursements have been made.
(vi) Estimated schedule of disbursements, loans or grants:
(a) by Nigam to contractors;
(b) by IDA to GOI;
(c) by LIC to Nigam; and
(d) by UP Government to the Nigam.
7.   Justification of the Sub-projects
Population and demand projections;
Explain how the sub-project fits into the Jal
Sansthan's entire program;
Why were these sub-projects chosen over the other
ones in the same district?
Least cost solution; and
Design periods for various categories of works and
return on investment.
8.   Financing of the Sub-Project and Operations and Maintenance.
(i)  For the Jal Sansthan showing existing and future commitments
(including additional projects likely to be proposed) in first
5 year period from year of commencement of construction:
(a)  Income statements;
(b)  Sources and applications of funds statement; and
(c)  Balance sheets;
(For Regional Jal Sansthans, projections should commence
from April 1, 1975; for Nagar Mahapalikas Jal Sansthans,
projections should cover a 10 year period including three
fiscal years prior to the year of commencement of sub-
project construction);
(ii)  Financing plan of Jal Sansthan;
(iii)  Copies of resolutions of the Jal Sansthan accepting the
financial implications of the sub-project, including
acceptance of Nigam's proposals for construction costs
and the Jal Sansthan's proposed method(s) of financing
its services including the sub-project, e.g. charging
levels for tariffs;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(iv) For rural water supply schemes, a copy of undertaking
by villagers of schemes to meet the Jal Sansthan's
charges, and where applicable, to contribute to the cost;
(v) Copy of Nigam's Board approval to sub-project costs
and Jal Sansthan's proposed methods of financing all
its services, including this sub-project, together
with any commentary considered necessary by the
Nigam on financing plans, tariffs or pertinent
subjects;
(vi) Brief review of Jal Sansthan's accounting, billing
and collection systems;
(vii) Review of past and current financial performance of
Jal Sansthan and proposed performance indicators for
future supervision purposes.
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 4
STATISTICAL DATA
(Estimates acceptable, but indicate by 'E' where applicable.
Analyse the data, where applicable between urban and rural)
For the .........                 Before                      After commis-
........... .Jal Sansthan         commissioning  Propoaed    sioning of
of project     in proiect  project
1.  Population - Total
- supplied with water
- supplied by standposts
- supplied by connections
- metered
- unmetered
2.   Connections - Total
- metered
- unmetered
3.   Water Supplies -
- water produced
- water sales
- metered
- unmetered
- unaccounted for
- average availability
per capita (L/c.d)
4.   Sewerage -
- No. of connections
- Population served by
connections
- Population not served
by connections
5.   Tariffs and charges            Current, including connection fee-
following introduction of service from
sub-project.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
6.   Financial                       For each year of projections:
Rate of return on net fixed assets
in operation;
Rate base (assets value);
Operating ratio;
Debt/equity ratio; and
Cash available for investment in
sub-project development.
7.   Sub-Projects                    Per capita cost of construction;
Per capita cost of operation and
maintenance as at final commissioning
date;
Per capita cost of depreciation as at
final commissioning date; and
Per capita grant to be made available by
the Nigam - for capital construction
- for operation and maintenance.
8.   Population, Prices, and
Incomes                         Per capita income by districts and/or for
(in all cases, where              area of water authority;
appropriate, give UP            Daily earnings of wage earners by
State comparable data)            appropriate groups;
Index of consumer prices by district
headquarter towns.
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Supervision Requirements
1.        Supervision of this project will not follow traditional lines.
There are no precedents and therefore the following must be regarded as
tentative. IDA will not be lending direct to the beneficiaries - the RJSs
and the KAVAL Jal Sansthans - and it will be the responsibility of the
Nigam to supervise these authorities. IDA will concentrate on the Nigam's
activities and the supervision will be directed to ensure high-quality
performance by this Corporation with its special responsibilities.
2.        Traditional public utility indicators cannot apply to the Nigam,
instead, supervision would concentrate on the following:
(i) assimilation of LSGED into the Nigam and the subsequent
reorganization to effect an integrated Development
Corporation having engineering, procurement, financial,
legal and administrative services capable of fulfilling
the Nigam's powers and duties;
(ii) formation of teams and programs, and performance of
appraisal unit for sub-projects' appraisal and supervision;
(iii)  formation of programs and performance of advisory services
including management, organization, engineering, finance
and administration;
(iv) development of fiscal and economic policies for the
sector including introduction and review of tariffs
and use of the Loans Fund as a Development Bank;
(v) sub-projects planning and control programs to ensure
adherence to design and construction targets; and
(vi)  development and implementation of training programs.
3.        Additional to the (i) through (vi) above will be supervision of
sub-projects primarily through review of the Nigam's technical and super-
vision reports at headquarters, but some field missions, particularly to
review the Nigam's early technical reports will be necessary.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The Nigam's technical reports (Annex 7) will follow traditional
public utility project appraisals. A series of performance indicators will
be developed for each water authority by the Nigam as appraisals are com-
pleted for use in their statutory monitoring and regulation of Jal Sansthans
and will be presented in the Nigam's quarterly reports to IDA and LIC.
5.        The complexity of this project and the need to concentrate on
qualitative rather than quantitative controls implies a need for substan-
tially more supervision than for a normal public utility project, particu-
larly during the first two years. The following is a summary of headquarters
and field supervision man/weeks tentatively planned during the project
execution period.
Headquarters
_Y          Manweeks                      Field                 Total
Sub-projects /1          Missions Man-Weeks        Man-Weeks
Appraisals      Other
76            44            18          2      12              74
77            40            18          2      12              70
78            24            16          2      12              52
79             -            16          2      12              28
/1   Sub-project appraisals are estimated to require 4 man/weeks each of
engineer and financial analysts time. At least fourteen technical
reports can be expected as follows:
KAVAL towns - Kanpur           2
- Lucknow          2
- Allahabad        1
- Varanasi         1
- Agra             1
RJSs        - Bundelkhand      3
- Kumaon           2
- Garhwal          2
J4
July 18, 1975



ANNEX 9
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 1:  BUNDELEHAND, GARHWAL, KUMAON AND TAVAL TOWNS JAL SANSTHANS
Summary of Estimates of Sub-Project Costs
Water Supply sod Sew7erage
Year Ending March 31                                          Perce-tage of
1976      1977      1978      1979      Total      1976      1977      1978     1979        Total  Grand Total
-------------------s Lakhs---------------------  --------------1us$ 1,000 Equioaleat----------------
Breakdows of Gand Total by Regional J.l Sansthan- asSd aal Towos Jal Sonstbans
Bundelkband Water Supply                                         187       348       430        272      1,237    2,342     4,336      5,379    3,400      15,457         20
Sarah,l Wat-e Supply                                              82       158       201        124        565    1,026     1,968     2,521    1,551        7,o66         10
Crus.o Water Supply                                               98       193       242        148        681   1,226      2,4o6      3,032    1,852       8,516         11
taKal Towas,
Wqater Supply                                                  405       812     1,046        632      2,895    5,073    10,150    13,079    7,876       36,178         47
Se-erage                                                       117        09       244       166         736    1,465     2,609     3,050    2,074        9,198         12
GR0ID TOTAL                                            889     1,720     2,163     1,342       6,li4   11,132    21,469    27,061   16,753       76,415        155
Breakdown of Grand Total By Category of Cost
A. Ba-ia Coats                           CW                      304       457       453        302      1,516    3,809     5,712      5,660    3,774      18,955         25
at 1975 Prices                        INS                     216       647       862        431      2,156    2,695      %J      10,775    5,33        26,936         35
TOTAL                                                  520     1,104     1,315       733       3,672    6,5o4    13,790    16,435    9,162       45,891         60
B. Physical Contingency i'                OW                      45        68        69         47        229      572       857       848       566       2,843          4
M&E                     32        96        129        64        321      401      1,213     1,616      8C8       4,036         5_
TOTAL                                                   77       164       198       111         550      973     2,070     2,464    1,374        6,881          9
Sob-Totals                            CW                      349       525       522       349       1,745    4,381     6,569     6,501    4,34C       21,798         29
A+3-                                M&E                     248       743       991       495       2,477    3096      9,291    12,391    6,196       30,974         40
TOTrL                                                  597     1,268     1,513       844      4,222    7,477    15,860    18,899   1C,536        52,772         69
C. 3agioeeriag 3
5esign                                                        069        44        -          -         213    2,111       528        -         -        2,639          3
Cosstr-oti-o Supervisio-                                       65       140       166        93         464      823     1,745     2,077    1,15('       5,795          d
TCTAL                                                  234       184       166        93         677    2,934     2,273     2,077    ;,15C        8,434
D. Price Co-tingenoy                     CW                       27       117       190       193         527      329     1,45-    2,376    2,4C5         6,56o
MAE                     13       111        235       164        523      17-      1,392     2,949    2,051       6,563           9
Eag.                    18        40         59        48        165      221       493        760      611       2,C86
TOTAL                                                   58       268       484       405       1,215      721     3,336     6,085    5,06'7      15,203         21
GH55D TOTAL
A+B+C+D                                               889     1,720     2,163     1,342       6,1i4   11,132    21,469    27,061   16,757       ?6,415
CW  = Civil Wockh
MAE   Material and Eguipment
Source- LSGED
1/ Basic -osts are January 1975 prices.
2 For Physical Contiag-cay, 15% ia applied on basic coats.  The percentage haa beeo calculated having regard to the status of detailed desigo sad kiad of projeot
oumposen.ta.
F/ Par Engi-eeriog, 4% ia applied for design including 1% fTr preliminary investigations and 11% for  -onstructioa supervsoho, including advisory services fCr
operation sad maiatenance of water sod sewerage works.
4/ FPr Price Contiageacy, the fllowiag percentages have been applied, which are io accord-nce with "Revised Interim Gtidelines on Treatment of Project Cost
- ncreases  tf March 29, 1974.  Civil Wo-ks and Engineering: 15s% far 1975 and 12% for 1976-79- Equipmeat: l1% fCr 1975 asd 7.5% fTr 1976-79.  However, io the
vnat of overprovisioa or underprovision, the Nigas can add or deduct subprojects is order to fulfill the project cost of Rs 60  orares (us$ 75 nillio-
eqalvaleat .
daly 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 2:  BUTIDELKHAND JAL SANSTHTAM
Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply
BASIC COSTS                                                                          Fiscal  Year  Ending  March  31                                            Percentage
1975 Prices                                                                                                                                                       ofz Grand
Rs Lakhs                                        1976       1977       1978       1979      Total       19i76       1977         1978        1979       Total   Total
DISTRICT           SUB-PROJECT        CW       M&E      TOTAL                                  -----------------Rs Lakhs------------------             -------us$ 1ooo---------------------------------_
Jhansi           Hipra Bansa          37        37         74      A.  Basic Costs   CW         73        109        109        73        364         910          1365        1365        910         4550        29
Gursarai           102       105         207          @ 1975 Prices M&E        38       113        150         75        376         470         1410         188O        94o        4700         31
Chirgaom            70        70        140                         Total   1i1         222    2    59      1           740        1-30         2775        3245        1650        9250        T6
Subtotal           209       212         421
B.  Physical        CW      11         17          16        11         55         137          205          204        137         683          4
Banda            Bira                 42        40         82          Contingency  M&E          5         17         23        11         56          70           212         282        141          705         5
Sanda Sani           11        14         25                       Total    T1                       70       22        1i1          207           4B1                    2-7        7181        79
Gureh               16        15          31
Oran                15        15          30      Sub-Totals         CW       84        126        125        84         419        1047         1570        1569        1047        5233         33
Sabtotal                       I       7 16          A + B          M&E       43        130         173        86        432         540         1622         2162       1081         5405        36
Total   127        325        296        170        651        1567         3192         3731       2126       10638          9
Hamirpur          Beri                  3         3          6
Khandeh              36        41         77      C. Engineering
Gohand               6          7         13          Design                  34           9       --          --         43         426          106          __                      532         3
Subtotal            75         51       -9;           Constr. Super,          14         28          33        19         94         175           351         410        234         1170         8
Total    71          37         3 3       19        137         601           45         871-       -23            027       T1
Jalaun            Jagmanpur            10        12         22
Tihar                6          6         12     D.  Price            CW        6        28          46        44        124          79           344         573        554         1550        10
Kuthond             10         11         21          Con ency  M&E             2         19         41        29         91          30           243         515        358         1146         7
Subtotal           o7 29                                            Eng.        4          8         12        10         34          45           100         150        126          421         3
Total    12          55         99       1          2           315         T17          1238       1036         3117        20
Total, All Districts                  364       376        740
Grand Total
A+B+C+D                187        348        430       272        1237        2342         4336         5379       3400       15457        100
CW = Civil Works
MSE = Material & Equipment
Source: LSGED
July 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 3:  GARHWAT. JAL SANSTHAN
Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply
Jal                                     BASIC COSTS 1975 PRICES                                                                          Garhwal
Sansthan                                             Rs Lakhs                                                                     Fiscal Year Ending March 31
District   Sub-Project         CW       E&E         TDtal                                                                                                                                          Percentage
1976   1977   1978   19'19   Total    1976   1977   1978   1979   Total    of Grand
Garhwal    Dehradun   Doiwala                6          8           14                                                    ----Rs Lakhs-------------    ------OUS  '000 Equivalent  -------                        Total
Sahaspur           16         23           39      A. Basic Costs           CM.                     27      60      41      27      135       338     500     513     33C.   1,9           24
Chakrata            5          8           13          1975 prices         M&E                      21      62      83      41      207      263    775  1,038        513   2 589           36
Kalsi               5          7           12                              Total                   Th      102     Th      X         _E 32    601    1,275  1,551    851       4
Subtotal         32       XE            77
B. Physical             C.W.                     4       6        6       4       20       50      75      '75      50      250           4
Tehri       Jaunpur             3          4             7           Contingency        M&E                      3       9      12       6        30       38    113      150      75       376           5
Tholdhar            4          3            7                             Total                      7      15    -17      1E       350    3           E   2325  125                         9
Chamba              7          7           14
Pratap Nagar        4          5             9         Sub-Total            C.W.                    31      46      )i7     31      155       388    575      588     388   1,939           27
Jakhainidhar        5          5           10          A+B                 M&E                      24      71      95      47      237       301    888  1,188       588   2 965           42
Bhilangana          9         10           19                             Total                     55    117      132    X7        392P  689   1,463  1178           976           
Deoprayag.          3          3             6
Narendra Nagar    5            4             9     C. Engineering
Kirtinagar          5          6           11          Design                                       16       4      -       -        20       200      50      -       -       250           4
Jakholi             6          6           12          Construction
Subtotal         51        53           102            Supervision                                 6      13      15       9       63       75     163      188     113      539           7
Total                    22      17      15    39                 T275    213    loo       113 3    79           11
Garhwal    Kot                  1          4             5
Kaljikhal           2          5             7     D. Price
Pauri               2          5             7           Contingency        C.W.                     2      10      17      16        45       24    121    213    200          558          8
Khirsu              4          7             1                             MRE                      1      10      22      16        49       13    121    281       200       615           9
Pabau               3          5             8                              Eng.                     2       4       5       5        16       25      50      63      62       200           3
Thalisain           3          7           10                             Total                      5      X               37      110 62  292               557 462        1,373 20
Dwarikhal           8         17           25
Dogadda             4          7           11          Grand Total                                  82    158    201    124         565   1,026  1,968  2,521  1,551   7L066               100
Lansdowne           5          8            13           A+B+C+D
Ekeshwar            6         13           19
Pokhra              3          7           10
Bironkhal           3          7            10
Rikhnikhal          3          6             9
Sainidanda          5         10            15
Subtotal         52       10 
Total           135       207           342
July 18, 1975
C.W.= Civil Works
M&E = Material and Equipment
Source:  LSGED



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 4: KUMAON JAL SANSTHAN
Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply
Jal                                     BASIC COSTS 1975 PRICES
Sansthan                                           Rs Lakhs                                                                        Kumaon
District   Suib-Project       CW        M&E       Total                                                     Fiscal Year Ending March 31                                                     Percentage
1976   1977   1978   1979   Total    1976   1977   1978   1979   Total    of Grand
Kmaon      Almora      Hawalbagh            7        10           17                                                  ------------Rs Lakhs-------------    -------hus$ '000 Equivalent------              Total
Bhasiachara         4          6          10     A. Basic Costs          C.W.                   33      50      50      33    166       413    625    625    413  2,076           214
Takula             7         10           17         1975 prices        M&E                     24      73      97      49    243       300    913  1 213    613  3,039           36
Dhaula Devi                  15           25                            Total                   5        3      7            1     2 v   713  1,538 7         1, 1026  5,115        0
Lamgara             5          a          13
Kapkote            7         11           18     B. Physical             C.W.                    5       8       7       5     25         63    100      88      63    314         4
Bageshwar           4          8          12           Contingency       M&E                     4      11      15       7      37        50    138    188       88    464          5
Garur               5          8          13                            Total                    9      19      22      12      68     113   T7         276     151   7            9
Syaldey             6        11           17
Salt                6        10           16         Sub-Total           C.W.                   38      58      57      38    191        476    725    713    476  2,390          28
Chaukhutia         5           8          13         A+B                 MgE                    28      84    112       56    280       350  1 051  1 401    701  3 503           41
Bhilkia Sain        3          5           8                            Total                   6      T71                              E2 T                  1,177  5            7
Twarshat            5          8          13
Tarakhet           8         12           20     C. Engineering
Barakote            6         10          i6         Design                                     19       5      -       -       24       238      63      -       _     301         4
Lohaghat            6          9          15         Construction
Champawat          5           9          14           Supervision                               7      16      19      10      52        88    200    238    125    651           7
Subtotal        99        156         257                            Total                     6      21       9      10     7        3 263           238    125    952         11
Nainithal  Ramgarh              3          4           7     D. Price                C.W.                    2      13      21      20      56        24    159    263    250    696            8
Gkhal Kanda         3          4           7           Contingency       M&E                     2      12      26      19      59        25    145    329    237    736            9
Baitalghat          7          9          16                             Eng.                    2       5       7       5      19        25      63      88      63    239         3
Bhimtal             5          5          10                            Total                    T      30     3         4    T1         77       7   W 0    550  1,671          -
Haldwani            5          5          10
Ramnagar            4          6          10         Grand Total                                98    193    242    148    681    1 226  2 406  3,032  1,852  8,516              100
Kashipur           8         11           19           A+B+C+D
Rudrapur            6          7          13
Bazpur            14          18          32
Khatima           12          15          27
Subtotal       177        __7         151
Total          166        242         406
C.W.   Civil Works
M&E = Material and Equipment
Source: LSGED
JulY 18, 1975



ANNCEX 9
INDTA
UTTAR PEADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 5: KAVAL TOWNS JAL SANSTHANS
Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Water Supply
Fiscal Year Ending March JL                                                       PERCENTAGE
KAVAL TOWNS  r       ITM OF COSTS           1976      1977       1978     1979       TOTAL  |  1976       1977      1978       1979     TOTAL         OF
ITEM                                                    I                                                    02220~~~~~~~~~~  1GRN  TOTAL
-----------------R. LakhsS------------------0 ------------ US$1,000 Equivalent-------------
SUMIAARY,       A. Basic Costs        CW    1i9        180        180      120         599     1,498     2,247     2,250      1,500     7,495          21
@ 1975 Prices      MAE    115       344       459       229       1,147     1,436     4,301     5,739      2,871    14,347         39
Kaval Tomms
TOTAL              234       524       639      349       1,746      2,934     6,548     7,989     4,371    21,842          60
B. Physical           CW      18        26        29        20          93       226       336       337       226      1,125          3
Contingencies    M&E     17        51        68        35         171       214       647       860       430      2,151          6
TOTAL               35        77        97       55          264       440       983     1,197       656      3,276          9
Sub-totals,        CW     137       206       209       140         692     1,724     2,583     2,587     1,726      8,620         24
A + B            M&E    132       395        527      264       1,318     1,649     4,948     6,599      3,301    16,497         45
TOTAL              269       6ol       736      404        2,010     3,373     7,531     9,186     5,027    25,117          69
C. Engineering
Design                   81        21         -         -         102     1,005       251         -          -     1,256          3
Co.nstr. Super.          29        66        81       45          221       371       829     1,009       552      2,761          8
TOTAL              110        87        81       45          323     1,376     1,080     1,009       552      4,017         l 
D. Price              CW      11        46        76        '3         206       129       566       944        911     2,550          7
Cuntingency        M&E      7        59       125       87          278        91       741     1,570     1,093      3,495         10
Eng.    8         19        28       23          78        104       232       370       293        999          3
TOTAL               26       124       229      183          662       324     1,539     2,884     2,297     7,044          20
GEAND TOTAL
A + B + C + D            405       812     1,046       632       2,895     5,073    10,150    13,079     7,876    36,178         l00
CW = Civil Works
M&E = Material & Eq.ipvseot
So.rce: LSGED
July 18, 1975



AKNE! 9
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 6: KAVAL TOWNS JAL SANSTEANS
Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
Fiscal Year Ending March 31
1976                                                  1,976                                                 PERCENTAGE
KAVAL TOWNS         ITEM OF COSTS              1976       1977       1978     1979       TOTAL        1976      1977        1978     1979       TOTAL           OF
GRAND TOTAL
-----------------Rs Lakbs -------------------i-----    USfl,OOO Equivalent_--___-_______
SIMiSARY -      A. Basic Costs           CW      52         78         73       49         252         648       972         916      611       3,146          34
KAVAL TOWNS         @ 1975 Prices       M&E      18         55         73       36         i82         228       683         911      455       2,277          25
TOTAL                70        133        146       85         434         876    1,655        1,827    i,o66       5,423          59
B. Physical             CW        8         12         11        7          38          97       146         137       92         472           5
Contingency       M&E       3         8         11         5          27          34      102         137        68         341           4
TOTAL                11         20         22       13          65         131       248         274      16o         813           9
Sub-Totals          CW       60        89         84        56         289         745    1,118       1,053       702       3,618          39
A + N             ME      21         63         84        42          10         262      785       1,047       524       2,618          29
TOTAL                81        152        168       98         499       1,007    1,903        2,100    1,226       6,236          68
C. Engineering
Design                     20          5        --        --          25         249       63          __        __         312           4
Constr, Super.              9        17         18        10          54        11       209         231       126         677           7
TOTAL                29         22         18       10          79         360       272         231      126         989          11
D.  Price               CW        5         20         30       39          94          56       257         385      482       1,179          13
Contingency         M&E       1        10         20        14          45          15      118         249       173         555           6
Eng.     2          5          7         5         19          27        59          84        67         238           2
TOTAL                 8         35         57       58         158          98       434         718      722       1,972          21
GRAND TOTAL
A + B + C + D               117       209        244       166         736       i,465    2,609       3,050    2,974        9,198         100
CW = Civil WMrks
M&E = Material & Ecaipmest
Saurce: LSCED
July i18, 1975



ANNEX 10
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year      Quarterly Disburse-  Cumulative Disbursements at    % of
and Quarter Ending  ments US$ Mlillions   end of Quarter - US$ Millions  Total
1976
December 31, 1975          0.5                        0.5                        1
March 31, 1976             0.8                        1.3                        3
June 30, 1976              2.0                        3.3                        8
1977
September 30, 1976         2.4                        5.7                       14
December 31, 1976          2.1                        7.8                       20
March 31, 1977             3.2                       11.0                       28
June 30, 1977              4.9                       15.9                       40
1978
September 30, 1977         3.7                       19.6                       49
December 31, 1977          2.7                       22.3                       56
March 31, 1978             3.7                       26.0                       65
June 30, 1978              4.0                       30.0                       75
1979
September 30, 1978         2.1                       32.1                       80
December 31, 1978          1.3                       33.4                       84
March 31, 1979             2.4                       35.8                       90
June 30, 1979              2.4                       38.2                       96
1980
September 30, 1979         1.8                       40.0                      100
July 18, 1975



ANQNx 11
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1969-74 AND FORECASTS 1974-79
List of Tables
Table 1   Yearly Outlay on Water Supply and Sewerage in Fourth Five Year
Plan
Table 2   Pattern of Assistance for Water Supply and Sewerage Schemes
Table 3   Water Rates and Charges in KAVAL Towns
Table 4   KAVAL Towns - Income and Expenditure on Water Supply and
Sewerage including per capita and per kiloliter
Table 5   Other Waterworks - Income and Expenditure including per
capita and per kiloliter
Table 6   Yearly Recurrent Subsidy on Water Supply (Rs per capita)
Table 7   Total Yearly Expenditures and Subsidy on Water Supply and
Sewerage
Table 8   Total Projected Yearly Expenditures on Water Supply and
Sewerage and Yearly Subsidy on Water Supply and Sewerage
Table 9   Per Capita Monthly Consumption Pattern in 1970/71
Definitions - The following terms which are used in the Appraisal
Report and in this Annex have the definitions ascribed to them below:
capital expenditures      expenditures incurred in formation of capital
assets;
recurrent expenditures   expenditures incurred on operations,
maintenance, debt service, or for which
there is an annual revenue budget provi-
sion to meet government service expenditures;



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
subsidy                   a payment, or a reduced charge made by a
public authority, usually government, to
assist in meeting capital or recurrent
expenditures; not normally repayable;
subvention                - or Ways and Means Advance - an interest
free, repayable loan by government to assist
a local body to meet a deficit caused by
an excess of recurrent expenditures over
revenues; such deficics are usually cal-
culated on a cash basis, as opposed to an
accruals accounting; rarely repaid in
practice;
Plan expenditures         expenditures, usually capital, forecast
or actual, which will be financed from a
provision in a government Five Year Plan
budget;
Non-Plan expenditures    expenditures which did not figure in a
Five Year Plan budget, usually appearing
in a government's annual budget, but may
be unbudgetted;
Ways and Means Advance   see subvention;
Grant                     a payment by government to finance expenditures.
Government does not normally expect repayment
at any time. Usually free of interest terms,
or conditions, except in the manner in which
it is to be applied by the recipient; and
Consumption               personal expenditures or outlays, as used in
economics.
1.        Water Supply and Sewerage services in UP have been provided by a
variety of institutions and autonomous bodies. Until 1975, preparation,
design and execution of works has been carried out by LSGED, now to be
merged in the Nigam. Maintenance and operation of the works is mostly the
responsibility of the local bodies (i.e.) municipal boards, town area
committees, and zilla parishads, in the areas under their jurisdiction; but
often in rural areas, where financial resources are limited and technical
skills scarce, the latter activities have also been unofficially undertaken
and financed by LSGED on an ad hoc basis from GUP funds allocated for
capital expenditures. No consolidated financial picture of the sector has
ever been drawn up because (i) there has been no financial policy for the
sector; (ii) so many entities are involved in the sector; and (iii) finan-
cial resources flow through many different channels. No GUP department or
agency can say how much is being spent every year on water supply and



ANNEX 11
Page 3
sewerage in the State; what part of these outlays is being supported by
the ultimate beneficiaries of the services; and what part is being sub-
sidized by the GUP general budget. This is the first attempt to assemble
such a picture from data available in different places. It must neces-
sarily be defective, because it has had to be based on data which are
mostly incomplete, often deficient and almost always prepared for purposes
entirely different from the one to which they have now been used. Yet,
the order of magnitude of the main features which emerge from the picture
should be indicative of the real situation and any conclusions based
thereon could be considered valid.
2.        This Annex is divided into two parts.  Part A deals with the
financial situation of the water supply and sewerage sector in the last
3 to 5 years. It deals with capital expenditure and with outlays on opera-
tion and maintenance (recurrent expenditure) and with the sources of income
derived from provision of water supply and sewerage services. It assesses
the extent to which the sector has been subsidized in the past, either in
overt or in hidden ways. Part B projects the sector's outlays and receipts
through March 31, 1979 ascertains the potential of subsidy which may be
necessary, if the proposed investment program would be executed on time.
It assumes that a number of policy changes with regard to financial charges
and recovery rates will be taken by the Nigam, the three regional Jal
Sansthans and the KAVAL Jal Sansthans, but also assumes little significant
change in the remainder of the sector, pending further reorganization after
1979.
A.   Fourth Five-Year Plan Period 1969/70 - 1973/74
a.   Capital Subsidies
3.        Total plan expenditures 1/ on water supply and sewerage in the
course of this period amounted to Rs 34.5 crores. These expenditures were
financed by Rs 24.9 crores from the State Plan, Rs. 5.8 crores from the
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Rs. 3.8 crores through a
decrease in the cash balances held by the LSGED 2/ (Table 1).
4.        Funds provided by the GUP State Plan and from LSGED cash balances
were passed on by LSGED to local bodies under a variety of financial terms
(Table 2) ranging from 100% loans, in the case of water supply schemes in
urban areas, to 100% grants, in the case of water supply schemes located
1/   Plan outlays consist largely of investment expenditures.  They include
however, those recurrent expenditures which are related to physical
assets constructed, but not yet completed, in the current plan period.
2/   LSGED had been able to build up some cash balances because of early
releases of State plan funds in previous years.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
in scarcity or hardship areas. Funds provided by the LIC were lent to
local bodies at the prevailing LIC terms, i.e. with interest of 6.5-7.5% 1/
and principal repayable in 25 years, including 3 years of grace.
5.        Apart from a small element of interest rate subsidy involved in
the loans passed on by LSGED or by the LIC, 2/ the principal element of
capital subsidy in the sector lay in the grants extended for the construc-
tion of water supply and sewerage schemes. The total of such grants given
in the period of the Fourth Plan amounted to Rs 13.5 crores (Table 1).
Almost all grants were for construction of rural schemes, with only Rs. 0.2
crores being channeled into rural 3/ and urban towns. These grants covered
39% of total capital outlay in the sector in the five years ending 1973/74,
and 88% of the outlay on rural schemes. The percentage of urban schemes
financed by grants was extremely small. Rural and urban grants were
provided from the GUP budget.
b.   Recurrent subsidies
6.        Recurrent subsidies occur whenever the recurrent expenditures
related to the operation of water supply or sewerage schemes are not
entirely covered by the income derived, directly or indirectly, from
charges on water supply and sewerage. Broadly, recurrent expenditures
include the outlays on maintenance and operation, and debt service. Income
is mainly derived from a water tax on the annual rental value of property,
metered water charges, ferrule charges, 4/ and from the sale of sewerage
water for farming purposes.
7.        For the KAVAL towns information on recurrent expenditures and
income is readily available: Recurrent expenditures on water supply
(Table 4) in these towns have risen from Rs 1.93 crores in 1969/70 to
Rs 3.07 crores in 1973/74. On a per capita basis this amounts to an in-
crease from Rs 5.3 to Rs 7.7 per head per annum. The income from water
rates and charges in the same towns has risen from Rs 1.93 crores in
1969/70 to Rs 2.75 crores in 1973/74. The corresponding per capita pay-
ments by consumers have increased from Rs 5.3 to Rs 7.3 per annum. Cur-
rent income was therefore sufficient to cover recurrent charges in 1969/70;
1/   LIC interest rates have been raised a number of times in the last
five years. The present rate is 7.75%.
2/   Rates charged by the State Government and by the LIC in the recent
past were slightly below those charged by other financial institutions
for their normal operations (9X).
3/   Rural towns are township areas which are not considered as "urban"
under the Indian census definition.
4/   The principal water tax rates and charges for the Kaval towns are
given in Table 3.



iNXEX I1
Page 5
but income growth since then has fallen short of the expansion in recurrert
outlays, and a gap of Rs 45 lakhs had developed by 1972/73. In the
following year this gap was slightly reduced, primarily due to a sharp
increase in the revenue collection in Kanpur due to property revaluation
yielding increased tax revenue. But even in 1973/74 the revenue shortfall
on water supply in the KAVAL towns still amounted to Rs 32 lakhs.   This
gap had to be made up largely through revenue from other sources, and to
some extent by defaulting on debt service payments.
8.        With regard to sewerage in the KAVAL towns, information on income
and expenditures is available for the last three years only (Table 4).
This information shows that income from sewerage services, primarily in
the form of sewerage sales, has more than doubled in that period, from
Rs 13 lakhs in 1971/72 to Rs 28 lakhs in 1973/74. Nevertheless this
income continues to represent a relatively small portion of total recur-
rent expenditures (26% in the latter year), and there is a substantial
subsidy from other sources of municipal income, which in most cases means
indirect support by GUP through subventions. In 1973/74 this annual
sewerage subsidy amounted to Rs. 77 lakhs.
9.        The yearly recurrent subsidy in the five KAVAL towns has in-
creased from about Rs 0.31 lakhs in 1969/70 to Rs 1.1 crores in 1973/74
(+250%). Main factors responsible for this deterioration are the in-
elasticity of the water tax revenue, which is levied on a heavily under-
estimated and often artificially pegged rental property value, a marginally
deteriorating performance in the collection of income actually billed, and
a very slow sporadic adjustment in the rate of water charges to an in-
creasingly rapid rate of inflation.
10.       Apart from the water supply facilities in the five KAVAL towns,
the water supply sector excluding rural schemes, covers another 288
waterworks, 224 of which are located in urban town areas and 64 in
rural towns. Statistical information on the current expenditures incurred
and on the income collected by these waterworks was assembled by LSGED,
but the data, especially for later years, do not cover all waterworks.
The limited information was gathered and expressed on a per capita basis,
using the number of people benefitting from the water supplied by the
waterworks included in each year's sample. The absolute data for these
waterworks and their per capita equivalents are shown in Table 5. These
data show that, although recurrent costs have steadily risen from Rs 3.00
per head per annum in 1967/68 to about Rs 4.20 in 1973/74, income collected
from the beneficiaries has remained fairly constant during the same period
at about Rs 3.40 per head per annum. The recurrent per capita subsidy has
thus constantly gone up and was probably around Rs 0.80 per capita per annum
in 1973/74.
11.       The per capita information collected on the basis of yearly sample
data, combined with more precise information on the total number of people
benefitting from water supplied by the rural and urban waterworks, permits



ANNEX 1 1
Page 6
an approximation of the cost of the annual recurrent subsidy to the
consumers in all towns taken together. These data are summarized in
Tables 6 and 7. They show that the yearly recurrent subsidy on account
of water supply in urban areas other than the KAVAL towns has increased
from Rs 16 lakhs in 1969/70 to Rs 70 lakhs in 1973/74. As far as rural
towns are concerned their number is relatively small and their average
size not very significant (less than 6,000 inhabitants). Consequently
their total popu'lation benefitting from water supply amounts to only 0.5
million and the recurrent subsidy on that account is negligible. In 1973/
74 it amounted to approximately Rs 4 lakhs.
12.       Much more important in terms of financial subsidy is the
operational cost incurred on rural village schemes. These schemes,
designed to provide water to villages or groups of villages, began about
1961, and have been increasing rapidly in recent years. From 1.1 million
in 1969/70, the number of beneficiaries from such schemes has increased
to about 3.0 million in 1973/74. No detailed information is available
on the recurrent expenditures actually incurred for the operation and
maintenance 1/ of these schemes, but sample studies indicate that opera-
tion and maintenance costs stood at about Rs 2.00 per capita per annum
in 1969/70. Due to recent sharp price increases these costs may be
estimated to have risen to approximately Rs 2.50 per head in 1973/74.
Given the number of beneficiaries of the schemes, the total recurrent
cost may have been around Rs 23 lakhs in 1969/70 and Rs 50 lakhs in
1973/74. Very little revenue has been collected from these beneficiaries,
and actual expenditures have been defrayed either by zilla parishads out
of their general revenue, or have been met by the LSGED budget. 2/ In
some cases proper maintenance has been neglected, because of lack of funds,
and for all practical purposes, the subsidy on these schemes amounts to the
full recurrent cost thereof.
13.       Very little is known about the financial burden imposed by the
sewerage systems in urban areas other than the KAVAL towns. Income directly
derived from the sector, either through specific contributions from the
beneficiaries or through the sale of sewerage water is very small, and the
recurrent costs of these sewerage schemes is virtually entirely subsidized
by the general municipal revenue of these towns or by the State Government
through subventions. To get an approximate idea of the total recurrent
1/   These schemes being financed out of grants have no debt service to
cover. But no provision has been made for depreciation by the
responsible authorities.
2/   LSGED has to maintain and operate these schemes until their commission-
ing date, but in many instances repair works have been performed by
LSGED out of its own budget after sehemes had been commissioned.



Page 7
costs of sewerage schemes, some broad assumptions were made. 1/ On the
basis of these assumptions, total yearly expenditures on sewerage in the
urban areas other than the KAVAL towns has probably risen from about Rs 31
lakhs in 1969/70 to about Rs 42 lakhs in 1973/74, and the corresponding
subsidy has gone up from about Rs 25 lakhs to about Rs 34 lakhs.
14.       Finally, there may be an additional element of hidden subsidy
given by LSGED, and therefore by GUP. LSGED had been charging a commis-
sion of 16% of capital cost to cover its estimated expenditures on plan-
ning, design and construction supervision. Considerable time elapses
between the incurrence of these expenses by LSGED and the moment when
they are charged to the project (i.e. the commissioning date), and not
enough attention has been paid to verification of whether the present
commission rate does in fact fully cover the corresponding LSGED overhead
costs. There are, however, indications that, whereas the commission charge
for supervision activities (13%) is sufficient to cover the relevant ex-
penses, the commission on design activities (3%) is lower than actual
design costs (presently estimated at roughly 4%). To account for such
a possible element of subsidy, it has been assumed that a notional addi-
tional subsidy of 1% of LSGED project costs would be forthcoming. 2/
15.       It therefore appears that the total annual subsidy to the water
and sewerage sector in UP has amounted to about Rs 5 crores in the last
three years, with a 15% increase from Rs 4.6 crores in 1971/72 to Rs 5.3
crores in 1973/74. Over the five-year period of the Fourth Plan this
subsidy has totalled about Rs 23.4 crores, of which Rs 13.9 crores were
given as capital subsidy 3/ and Rs 9.5 crores as recurrent subsidy. Total
expenditures on the water supply and sewerage sector in the same period
amounted to Rs 71.3 crores.   One-third of these total expenditures were
thus being subsidized, in one way or the other, by paying for the sector
with resources from the general budget revenue.
1/   It has been assumed that, as in the KAVAL towns, recurrent sewerage
costs in those urban areas are one-third of the recurrent expendi-
tures incurred on water supply. However, because only one-third of
these urban areas provide sewerage services, the sewerage cost has
been put at one-ninth of the water supply costs. It was further
assumed that, again as in the KAVAL towns, the sewerage subsidy would
amount to 80% of total sewerage costs. Given that the other urban
areas probably do not have as much opportunity to sell their sewage
for farming, this may be an underestimation of the subsidy in these
urban areas.
2/   There is also some evidence that LSGED may be overstaffed and has
incurred excessive costs in planning and design activities.
3/   Including the hidden subsidy granted by LSGED.



ANNEX I1
Page 8
16.       The bulk of the subsidy over the five-year period (Rs 15.4
crores) has gone to rural areas. Nevertheless, the subsidy on account
of urban water supply and sewerage has been rising steadily: from Rs 75
lakhs in 1969/70 it increased to Rs 218 lakhs in 1973/74 (+190%). This
increase is partly due to the increase in the number of urban people
benefitting from water supply and sewerage services but to a much larger
extent it is due to an increase in the per capita cost of the subsidy. If
the per capita rate of subsidization had remained at its 1969/70 level, the
total urban subsidy would have risen from Rs 75 lakhs in 1969/70 to only
Rs 81 lakhs in 1973/74, or an increase of 8%. For this to happen, however,
the rate of increase of income from the sector would have had to be faster
than the rate of increase of expenditures. Even if the income from water
supply and sewerage would have kept pace with the rate of expansion of
expenditures on the sector, the total subsidy would only have risen to
Rs 109 lakhs, instead of to Rs 218 lakhs. In other words, 4% of the
total increase in subsidy is due to the expansion in the number of ben-
eficiaries, 20% is caused by the inflation of costs, but 76% of the in-
crease, is caused by revenue growth lagging considerably behind increases
in expenditures.
B.   Fifth Five-Year Plan Period 1974-79
17.       It is not possible to accurately forecast the subsidy on water
supply and sewerage in the next five years, because the size of that sub-
sidy will depend on a number of factors, including (a) the size of the
investment program for the sector; (b) the on-lending terms by the Nigam
to the local bodies concerned and the share of any grants in the total;
(c) the rate of inflation and its effect on both expenditure and revenue
levels; (d) future increases in water charges and tax rates. Some of
these factors can be predicted with a reasonable degree of accuracy, others
will entirely depend on policy decisions and cannot be forecast with any
level of certainty. Therefore, the total outcome remains largely an
unknown.
18.       This section is an assessment of the size of the subsidy under
certain assumptions relating to both economic factors and policy decisions.
The aim is to indicate what size the subsidy might take, even if certain
steps are taken to increase water charges, particularly in the urban areas,
and given a reasonable size program and a reasonable pattern of on-lending.
Any failure to increase the water charges to the levels assumed in the ex-
ercise would only raise the amount of subsidy required even further. The
following assumptions have been made, but changes in any one could inter-
act on others and affect the projected result:
(i) Five years' capital investment 1974-79 will be about
Rs 92 crores;
(ii) The rural schemes investment would be about Rs 43
crores of (i);



ANDM   11
Page 9
(iii) Annual inflation rate of 152 for the first two of the
five years dropping to 10%;
(iv) Urban systems recurrent expenses will increase by 5%
per annum excluding inflation;
(v)  Recurrent urban sewerage expenditures will remain at
about one-third of water supply in KAVAL towns and one-
ninth in other towns; and
(vi) Recurrent expenditures on rural schemes will increase
at about 10% per annum excluding inflation.
19.       Total expenditures on the water supply and sewerage sector can be
reasonably expected to rise from Rs 18.0 crores in 1973/74 to Rs 48.4 crores
(+169%) in 1978/79 (Table 8). In the same period the total annual subsidy
on the sector would rise from Rs 5.3 crores in 1973/74 to Rs 13.8 crores
(+160%) in 1978/79. The subsidy as a percentage of total outlay would thus
remain static. Yet, it should be noted that this is only due to a sharp
rise in water rates assumed in the KAVAL towns and the other urban areas.
This causes a fall in the overall subsidy rate as between 1974/75 and 1976/
77; but thereafter, because of the high subsidization of the rural village
schemes, the share of the subsidy in total expenditures again begins to rise
over time.
20.       It should also be noted that the implications of the gradual elimi-
nation of subsidy on water supply in the urban areas are fairly severe. It
would mean that income in the KAVAL towns would have to rise by 85% by 1976/
77 on current levels and by about 15% a year thereafter, for these towns to
be able to meet only their recurrent expenditures on water. 1/ As for the
other urban towns, they would have to more than double their rates between
1974/75 and 1976/77, and keep on increasing them by 15% a year thereafter.
Disregarding some marginal increase in the number of beneficiaries in towns,
it would mean that water charges would have to be raised in the same propor-
tions 2/ and that yield from water taxes may have to be increased.
21.       A further reduction in the overall subsidy could only be made
possible through (a) the generation of a financial surplus on water supply
in the towns, (b) a reduction in the sewerage subsidy, and (c) the gradual
introduction of some water charges in the rural village schemes. The first
of these alternatives has possibilities, in that the urban areas have among
1/   This is without allowing for the generation of investible surpluses.
2/   At the time of the appraisal mission two of the five KAVAL towns
were considering raising their water rates by 25-100%, depending
on the consumer category.



ANNEX  1
Page 10
the highest per capita income in the State. It should be possible - at
least after a while - to generate a surplus in these areas and to syphon
it off to other subsidized areas by using the Nigam's fiscal operations.
The second alternative, a reduction in the sewerage subsidy, will be more
difficult to bring about. Sewerage is considered even more widely than
water supply, to be a free public service, which has to be paid for by
the community at large. Except where individual house connections exist,
it will be difficult to introduce a specific charge fot sewerage services
except through taxation.  The sale of sewage for farfing purpose, may pro-
vide some additional revenue, but this part of the sector will probably
have to remain subsidized for some time. The third avenue for reducing
the sector subsidy is the introduction of some kind of water charge in the
rural areas where water supplies have been, or will be made available. Many
of these villages belong to the poorer areas of the State, and it may be
difficult, if not impossible, to levy water charges at rates comparable to
those in urban areas. However, either where individual house connections
have been installed or where a standpost has been set up within a certain
distance from a dwelling, it has been possible to make the ultimate bene-
ficiaries contribute something to the defrayment of water supply costs.
The question then arises as to how much these people can contribute.  Little
local thought has been given to the subject, and relatively few socio-eco-
nomic data on a regional or district-basis are available. Furthermore, the
determination of water charges in the poorer sections of the State cannot
be decided on purely scientific or economic grounds; the matter is linked
with the problem of income redistribution. It will ultimately remain one
of political judgment, but tariff studies which are now proposed should
include in their terms of reference the need to ascertain as accurately
as possible, and then review all available data to facilitate decision
making.
22.       There are some limited data available on consumption pattern
in urban and rural areas (Table 9). These data suggest that in 1970/71,
people in the urban areas of UP were spending approximately one-half of
one percent (Rs 3) 1/ of their total yearly consumption (Rs 526) on water
supply.  Total yearly consumption in the rural areas was about 20% below
the level attained in urban centers. Even if the inhabitants of these
areas were required to contribute only half as much of their income as
urban inhabitants to the cost of water supply (i.e. slightly over 0.25%),
this would still represent Rs 1.19 in 1970/71 prices. In 1974/75 prices
this would probably amount to about Rs 1.70 per capita, per annum. Such
a level of water charges would have reduced the level of recurrent subsidy
on village schemes by 60% in 1974/75 from Rs 60 lakhs to Rs 24 lakhs.
23.       Finally, GUP might consider the introduction of differential water
charges as between different parts of the State. The distribution of per
capita income as between different districts is quite uneven and varies
1/   See Table 5.



ANNEX 11
Page 11
from 30% or more below the State average (Rae Bareli, Gonda, Bahraich,
Pratapgarh, Basti, Azamgarh, Jaunpur and Ballia) to 60% or more above the
average (Meerut and Dehra Dun). From the district with the lowest to the
one with the highest income, this represents a more than four-fold increase
in per capita income levels. This is not to argue that it would be advis-
able or even practical to recommend water rates which are four times as
high in the Dehra Dun district as in the Basti district. In fact it may
well be impossible to introduce differential water charges as between
districts. It may, however, be feasible to recommend that a regional
water authority in a more prosperous part of the State charge more for
its rural village water than a water authority in a poorer region. Even
as between divisions the per capita income distribution ranges from 25
below average (Faizabad) to 50% above average (Meerut). This seems to in-
dicate that there is some scope for differential water pricing to be in-
troduced in the future.
July 18, 1975



AIE 11
INDIA
UTTAR PRADE SH WATER SUPPLY AND SA(EAGE PROJECT
Table 1: Yearly Outlay on Water Supply and Sewerage in Fourth Plan
(in Rs crores)
% of
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   Total   Total
Outlay                           4.77       4.30      6.87      9.52       9.02   34.48    100
Of which:
- for urban schemes           0.29        2.75      4.21     6.62        5.61   19.48     56
- for rural schemes           4.48        1.55      2.66      2.90       3.41   15.00     44
financed by:
1/
- State plan                  5.98        4.82      5.31     4.00        4.75   24.86      72
- LIC                          -          1.66      0.50     2.07        1.53    5.76     17
- LSGED cash resources       -1.21       -2.18      1.06      3.45       2.74    3.86
(-  increase)
- grants                      4.22        1.79      2.53     2.46        2.53   13.53     39
t,, Includes resources made available by OI National Plans.
Source: Appraisal Mission
July 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPIY AND SBNERLGE PROJECT
Table 2: Pattern of State Assistance for Water Supply and Sewerage Schemes
in Uttar Pradesh   -7/7  1
Pattern              Rate of               Period
of                 interest              of loan
aseistance           for loan              repamgent
I. URBAN SCHENE
a. Water supply
t. in local bodies having population
of more than 20,000 according to
1971 census.                          100 % loan            6  %                30 years
2. in local bodies having population
of upto 20,000 according to 1971
census.                                75 % grant           6¼ %                15 years
25 % loan
b.  Sewerage                                    75 % grant
25 % loan            6 %                 30 years
II. RUR*L SCHE
1. ordinary schemes                             75 % grant
25 % loan            6¼ %                15 years
2. schemes in scarcity areas or
hill region.                             100 % grant
2/ This pattern has been in force for about 10 years, although the interest rates have risen over time.
Source: LSGED
-July 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPIY AND SDJERAGE PROJECT
Table 3:    Water Rates and Charges in Kaval Towns
in force October 1974
Kanpur         Agra         Varanasi         Allahabad         Lucknow
1. Water tax as percentage
of annual rental value'
of property                      6.25%S        13.0%          12.0%            14.0%             8.0%
2. Minimum water tat per
. year per connected house       Rs 16           Rs 18         Rs 24             Rs 24             Rs 24
3. Rate of metered supply
per 1,000 litres
(a) domestic                   Rs 0.16         Rs 0.20       Rs 0.20           Rs 0.25           Rs 0.20
US 6 per 1000 US galls         7.6            9.5            9.5             12.0               9.5
(b) non-domestic               Rs 0.22         Rs 0.30       Rs 0.30           Rs 0.50           Rs 0.30
4. Water supply allowance
before 3(a) above applied
1/c. month           8,300           7,500o       10,000            8;000             10,000
1/c. .a.               275             250           333              267                333
5. Average cost of water for month
for family of 6 using          Rs 4.2         Rs 5.h         Rs 5.4           Rs 6.75           Rs 5.4
150 l/c.d. each               USo  53        USd  68        USU  68          USi   85          USi  68       H
July 18, 1975
Source: LSCED



'TTA00 PR4E000 WA001 SUPPLY AND0 SEWERAGE P007ECT
Table 4:    KAVAL TOWNS-1ac-i and PaedtrsOh:iuadSrlee16-0throgh 1973-74
KANPOP                                          AGRA                                         VARAXA2I                                        ASLLAHABAI7                                        WOWZ
Year ended Mha, 31          1970      1971     1070      1973     1974      1970     1971      1972     1973      1974    1970      1971     1972      1973      1974     19490    1971       1972      1973     19,4      1970      1971      1972     1973      1974
WAYE5 SUPPLY
SenfattanDg Popolatton 'OUCa               1,197    1,235    1,265    1,300    1,337         600      614      628       642       657     5i6       589      602       616       630      484       493       500      511       920       766       785      803       822      842.
Water Connosepta-                                                                 '~-002  3 
Ae-outed for                           10,305   20,307   37,400   43,000   64,400   15,455   16,057   22,759   23,779   24,064   6,355    7,336   10.647   12,289   13,332   321614   19,501   13,271   14,449   14,968    9,067    9,118   20,721   17,390   16,899
OaJe-ooted for                         54,02   54,292   35,9139   32,232   15,1501  13,080   14,307   11,393   12,270   13,710 148,302   47,536   39,367   37,210   39,944    6,800   22,491   28,693   26,395   28,180   57,177   599,488   46,128   50,073   50,136
Total                     74377   74,679   73,29   75.232   79,550   29.335   30,439   34,152   36,049   37,774 ja4.6s7   54.872   50,014   49,495   53.276   39,494   41,582   41,964   40,044   43,148   66,244   68,606   66,849   67,563   67.035
0s Lkhhn
Meter Charge-                                              23.54    26.12    44.oo       no.      no.     soO       15.70    12.21                        1.57      2.07      3.12     8..       un         .00     0.41      8.91      D,A.     n.n.      7.81      8.84      7.05
Other                                    u.       a.       46.30    54.52    75.52      na         ..     22.92    0.27    244          A.       n      20.10    27.07    24.49       n.a.      0.0.    27.05    29.74    32.28        n.n.     a.A.    36.38    34.24    4o.82
Total                      69.38    70. 95    69.94    80.64,  119.52    37.79    34.79    33.77    35.27    39.69   07.4..    30.24    29.67    09.94    07.61    32.94    31.03    35.85    36.15    41.19    30.58    47.09    44.19    43.08    47.87
Operto  adMhaenr                        51.70    44.99    62.05    67.59    07.74    71.29    07 33    20.43    24.10    23.60   o2.60    74.17    26.02    31.75    32.30    23.44    22.10    29.53    30.14    31.61    28.51    34.16    40.18    42.15    45.00
D.ht OrS -ee                            13.15    13.50    13.70    1.7.97    15).50    1061    11.92    16.01    17.22    10.01         -      10.64      9.66    lo.4o    00.67    ii.ot        9.63    17.94    15.49    i6.18    n.-64    13.33    17.96    19.63    al.9
Total                      64.43  ~85         76.63    40.56   107.24    31.09    29.25    37.24    41.30    41.61   22.6o    34.21    35.69    42.15    42.39    34Ja8    31.74    40.47    45.62    47.79    4o.2.5    47 91    58.i4    51.78    66.s
Canh Sohnldy-Wnt-r Supply                  [4.95)  (12.44)    6.79    (o.49)  (10.20)    0.90    (5.03)    3.47         6.03      2. 92   (4.01)    3.97     6.01    10.21    15.38       1.64      0.71      6.62     7.47      6.60      9%?7      0.41    13.95    18.70    19.07
C-) = urpl-n
Ino-n                                       no         .       6.09      4.74    10.92       ..      00        1.70     7.16      2.60      ..      00       0.00      0.29      0.30     na        na.       0.87     0.09      i.i8      n.e.      n..       4.58     4.6?      4.53
Op-rtnon  od Mi.toten-                    .a        n.     14.47    01.44    26.73       u..      00         .65     3.20      0.06I              a       6.64      7.02     8.08      enAun,              6.39     3.44      9.9       n          ..       3.0     17.18    18.10
Snbt Se-1a-..                                       n       6.49      6.62     7.50      n.        .        32       313       1985 I   n        o.       40         .6       70         a        ..       9.70      9.74    10.14      ng        n..    12.3        33        06
TotnO           0.0.      n.a.    20.~~~~~~~~O95    20.06    34.23  05   na.       5.92      5.33     5493    I::       00       0.87    14.98    15.11       ii.       0a        6.o5    19.18    09.23       n.n.      n.A.    13.43    29.32    30.75
TC..  O0bnOdy.Oe-ergc                        .         a      14.86    23.32    15.24       n.       00        4.14     3.17      2.33                      lo.. u.. 1.67    14.73    14.8i  .0      ..      15.19    19.09    sho         ne.        .a      11.15    24.85    26.22
Total CanO loh,-dy          u-n        n.     21.65    33.24      2.96      na        ..       7.61      9.20     5.25    n-A.      1..      6.68    26,94    30.139       ..       00       21.80    26.56    24.65       D.A.      n..      25.10    43.99    43.29
PER CAPITAorome 0,.-
Water Con-uptuon                          170       i66      159       138      163       134      136       149       154      157 .J-20         02        228      720       232      224       231       229       019      227       216       219       228      so        so8
Conono  pay-eta   Wat-r                  3.79      5.76     5.52      6.20     8.94      5.41      5.58     5.38      5.49     0.09 I4.75        5.17,    4.93      4.86      4.38     6.78      6.20      7.14      7.47     7.92      3.96      5.99      5.50      5.24     5.70
par ano            Oc--rge              .        .        o.48     0.36      1.4a       ..        0       0.28     0.33      0.30     o       uS        0.03      5.04      0.04     0.0        ..       017      0.01      0.202      ..       ne       0.53      0.56      0.53
E.pend=orc  un nerviac
pernnn-           Wate                 5.34     4.75      4.25      6.oo     8.02      4.31     4.76      5.33     6.4~   6.33    3.92        v.80      5.33      4.84      4 82     7.12      6.43      8 44     0.93      9.19      5.02      6.05      7.04     7.57      7.96
Senerago            u..      I.,.      1.65      2.15     2.56      0.       0.        0.94     0.03      0 75 j1..         00        .80      2.43      2.33     0.0.      0..        .19      3.75     3.69      u..       o.        1.92     3.59      3.65
Total baa  So4-ty           n..       n.       1.72      1.79      0.22     u.           .     1.71      1.44     0. S    n u       un        2.77     4.37      4.79    -iA.       -lu.      4.34      5.20      4.74      n..      o.        3.13      5.39      5.38
Ianoa-Water                              5.09     0 09      0.10      0.11     0.15      0.11     0.11      0.17     0.10      0.12    0.00      2.06     o.06      o.06      7.05     0.06      0.07      0.58      2.03     0.09      0.05      0.07      o.06     0.06      0. 07
-Osnornon            0.0.     u.s.     ~~~~~     ~~~~~0.01  0.01  0.72  0,    0..       0.01     0.01      0.51a0     .        a      0.05      0.01      00       0..       0             -00.                               00        0.01      0.01     0.01
Rcc-ret Taco of WaTterO oOF                       5.04      0.00      0.11     7.03      0.1      0.09      0.11     0.1i      0.11    0.04     .o6      5D.07     0.09  .9  0.09 o.o8  slB 0.1-0 0.10                         .10      0.06     0.07      o.06      0,09     0.10
Re-urr-t Coat U  eeuo                     ..      00        0.01      o.64     0.64      -0       0..       30      0 0.0     0.01 O'  0 0.      .n.      C,)2     003       0.03      -.a.     u..       o.o4      0.05     0.5o4     0..       n.        0.02      o.04     0.05
50T741 1A20 00U00I            a.               0.00      0.03      0±3      0..       00        .0'      0.02,    .1 01 I            o.        .3      0.05      O.0        .0. I..           0 06      .0c6     o.o6      un       un.       0.03      O.0C6     0.97
Hnter ConnupmysOn iota p-obsbly u--elnble, Osog bn-d on roted -oP-etY of P-oPu Per T-p-gn thurs-,
not n--rte onteran ii       - nsc  uP-rtio-l.
N4aa.=St  -en blahi                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Scora   LSOES cad Appr-heel Mieehee                  f
741  1, 13"



IJ IA-I1
lITTAlR PRADESH WATESR SUPPLY ANIt SEWERACGE PROJECT
Table 5:    Waterworks Other than Kaval Tow.:s - Cash Receipts end Paymcnts
1967/68 - 1972/713
WMter Cons.mptiU-                Cash Receipts                      Paymen
Sample    Benefiting                                                                    Operation &   De t ICash
saze      population     1etered  lnmetcrei  Total    Metered  Unmetered  Total         maintenance   service   2o0a_        subsidy
(Teems)   (in thousands)       inkillon  titers                 R   inlas)                     (7Rs. lahes)                 (Rs. l.-khs)
1967/68            128       4,1i2         47,S56     30,286  121,502    97.3'       42.72   140.09         84.02        40.89   124.91      (15.18)
1968/69            149       4,791         53,7]8     87,579  139,297   1C4.01       53.52   157.53        io.26        47.66   149.92       (i.Sl)
1969/70           169        6,936         64,i5b     91,35(5  155,533   124.65      51.64   176.29        1i6.34        5.G66  1i'4.00       (2.29)
1970/71             62       2,121         20,602     27,741   48,35-3    20.38      40.oo    60.38         38.83        33.23    72.06      -11.68
1971172             76       3,600         32,399     43,406  7y,3B0      61'7      61.27  t12.o4          63.23        36.41    99.69      (23.35)
1972/73            60        1,636         27,992     39,050   67,042    19.57       40.90    60.47         48.24        23.31    '1.55      -11.08
OData expressed as per capita
and oer cubic meter
Costs
Consumption                                 Operation &    Deet                       Cash              Cost of                  Cash
10Do  1/year     1/day           Ineome          maintenance    service    Total            subsidy           water         Incone    subsidy
(per capita)                                          (sa                                                            (Rs 'n3)
1967/68        31.01          85             3,41               2.05         0.99       3.04           (0.37)             0.10          0.11       0.01
1968/69        29 C/          80             3 29               2.13         1.00       3.13           (0.16)             0.11          0.11        -
1969/70        31 51          86             3.57               0.35         1.17       3.52           (0o05)             0.11          0.11        -
1970/71,       22.79          62             2.85               1.83          1,57      3.40           -0.55              0.15          0.12      -0.03
1971/72        29.15          8o             4.73               2.43         1,40       3.83           (0.90)             0.13          0.16       0.03
1972/73        40.98         112             3.'70              P.94          1.43      4.37           -0.67              0.11          0.09      -0.02
Source: LSGED and
Jinly 18, 1975                                                                                                                   Appraisal Misaion



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 6:    YalZRecurrent Subsidy on Water Supply
-                C~~~~~Rs per capita)
1969/70      1970/71        1971/72       1972/73       1973/74
1. Kaval towns                  0.02          -0.33          0.97         1.14          0.79
2. Other urban areas            0.20           0.50          0.60         0.70          0.80
3. Rural towns                  0.20           0.50          o.60         0.70           0.80
4. Rural village schemes        2.00            2.00          2.00        2.25           2.50
i/ Minus (-) = surplus.
July 18, 1975                                                    Source: Appraisal Mission



ANNEX 11
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 7:    Estimated Total Annual EZpenditures and Subsidies
on Water Supply and Sewerage in Uttar Pradesh
(in Rs lakhs)
1969/70        1970/71          1971/72         1972!73          1973!74           Total
A.   CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                                477             430             687              952              902           3,448
B.   RECURRENT EXPEEDIUBES                               602             617              26              839              899           3,683
Of which in:
1.  Kaval towns
a.  water supply                         (193)          (201)            (250)            (272)           (307)          (1,223)
b.  sewerage                             (64)           (67)             (69)             (97)            (104)          (  401)
2.  Other urban areas
a.  water supply                         (281)          (282)            (325)            (372)           (375)          (1,635)
b.  sewerage                             (31)            (31)            (36)             ( 41)            (42)          (  181)
3.  Rural towns                              ( i0)           (11)            (17)             (20)             (21)          (   79)
4.  Rural village schemes                    (23)            (25)            (29)             (37)             (50)          (  164)
C.   TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                1,079          1,047            1,413            1,791           1,801            7,131
D.   CAPITAL GRANTS                                      422             179             253              246              253           1,353
Of which:
-urban areas                             (  2)             1 i)          ( 1)             (  1)           (  1)          (    6)
-ural towns                              (  3)          (  1)            (  2)            ( 2)            (  2)          (   10)
- rural village aehenes                  (417)          (177)            (250)            (243)           (250)          (1,337)
E.   RECURRENT SUBSIDIES                                  96             121             205              263              267             952
Of uhih in:
1.  Kaval towns
a.  water supply                    (  1)           (-12)            (37)            (45)             (32)          (  103)
b.  sewerage                         (30)           (40)             (56)            (84)             (77)           (  287)
2.  Other urban areas
a.  water supply                    (16)            (41)             (51)            (61)             (70)          (  239)
b.  aewerage                         (25)           (25)             (29)            (33)             (34)          (  146)
3.  E,ral tooss-                         (   1)         (  2)            (  3)            (  3)           (  4)          (   13)
4.  Rural village schenes                (23)           ( 25)            (29)             (37)            (5o)           (  164)
F.   LSGED SUBSIDY                                         5               5                7               9                9              35
G.   TOTAL SUBSIDY                                       523             305             465              518              529           2,340
Of which:
- in urban areas                         ( 75)          ( 97)            (177)            (228)           (218)          (  795)
- in rural areas                         (448)          (208)            (288)            (290)           (311)          (1,545)
(including rural towns)
Subsidy-G as % of Total Expenditures -C                 48.4%           29.1%           32.9%            28.9%            29.3%           32.8%
Capital Subsidy D + F                                    427             184             260              255              262           1,388
- as o of Capital Expenditures - A                      89.5%           42.8%           37.8%            26.8%           29.0%            40.2%
Recurrent Subsidy - E                                     96             121             205              263              267              952
- us 4o of Recarrent Expenditures - B                   16.4%h          19.5%           28.0%            30.9%            29.1%           25.7%
I! These are towns which do not qualify as "urban" areas under the census definition.
8/ Including the hidden subsidy granted by LSGED.
3/ Surplus.
The LSGED subsidy has been split bet-een urban and rural are-as i  proportion ts the
other subsidies.
Source: Appraisal Mission
July 18, 1975



INDIA                                                           AMEX 11
TUTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 8:  Total Projected Yearly Expenditures on Uttar Pradesh
Water Supply and Sewerage-197 /75 through 197 /79
(in Rs lakhs)
1973/74                 1974/75           1975/76            1976/77            1977/78           1978/79            TOTAL
(Estimated                                                         (Projection)
actuals)
A.   CAPITAL EXPESNDITURES                     902                   1,000             1,4oo              1,800             2,200              2,8oo             9,200
B.   RECURRENT EXPENDITURES                    899                   1,077             1,303              1,512              1,758             2,045             7,695
Of which in:
1. Kaval towns
a. water supply                    (307)                   (368)              (442)             (508)              (584)             (672)
b. sewerage                        (104)                   (123)              (147)             (169)              (195)              (224)
2. Other urban areas
a. water supply                    (375)                   (450)              (540)             (621)              (714)             (821)
b. sewerage                        ( 42)                   ( 50)              ( 60)             ( 69)              ( 79)              ( 91)
3. Rural towns                        (21)                    (26)               (33)              (40)               (48)               (58)
4. Rural village schemes              ( 50)                   ( 60)              ( 81)              (105)             (138)              (179)
C.   TOTAL EXPENDITURES                     1,801                    2,077             2,703              3,312             3,958              4,845           16,895
D.   CAPITAL GRANTJS                           253                     300               4oo                550                700               950             2,900
E.   RECURBENT SUBSIDIES                       267                     310                310               293                354               429             1,696
Of which in:
1. Kavel towns
a. water supply                    ( 32)                   ( 37)              ( 22)             ( - )              ( _ )             ( -
b. sewerage                        ( 77)                   ( 91)              (109)             (125)              (144)              (166)
2. Other urban areas
a. water supply                    (70)                    (77)               (44)              (_)                (_)               (_)
b. sewerage                        (34)                    (40)               (48)              (55)               (63)               (73)
3. Rural towns                        ( 4)                    ( 5)               (  6)             ( 8)               (  9)              (11)
4. Rural village schemes              ( 50)                   ( 60)              ( 81)              (105)             (138)              (179)
F.   LSGED STJBSIDY                              9                    (- )               (-)               (-)                (_)               (- _ 
..   TOTAL SUESIDY                             529                     610               710                843             1,054              1,379             4,596
Subsidy -G as % of Total Expenditures -C  29.3%                       29.4%             26.3%              25.4to             26.6%            28.5%            27.2%
Capital Subsidy D + F  /                       262                     300               400                550                700               950           2,900
- as % of Capital Expenditures -A    29.0%                      30.0%              28.6%             30.5%              31.8%             33. X            31.5%
Recurrent Subsidy -E                           267                     310               310                293                354               429           1,696
- as % of Recurrent Expenditures -B  29.1%                      28.8%              23.8%             19.4%              20.1%              21.0%           22.0%
i Including the hidden subsidy granted by LSGED.
Source: Appraisal Misaion
July 18, 1975



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 9: Per Capita Monthly Consumption Pattern in 1970/71
(in Rs.)
Rural Areas
Small     Landless                                   Urban              U.P
farmers   families    Rest       Total               areas              State
I. FOOD PRODUCTS
1. Cereals and pulses                    13.16       12.62    14.86       14.67               13.34              14.51
2. Milk and milk products                  1.84       1.79      4.09       3.88                5.41               4.07
3. Other food items                       4.77        5.52    .6.22        6.13               10.24               6.63
Total                          19.77       19.93    25.17       24.68               28.99              25.21
II. NON-FOOD PRODUCTS
1. Fuel and light                          2.o6       1.99      2.14       2.13                2.84               2.22
2. Clothing and shoes                      1.67       2.59      3.43       3 32                3.04               3.28
3. Others                                 2.54        3.05      4.96       4.75                8.97               5.28
Total                           7.27        7.63    10.53       10.20               14.85              10.78
III. TOTAL (I + II)                            26.04      27.56    35.70       34.88                43.84              35.99
IV. TOTAL CONSUMPTION PER YEAR                  312         331      428        418                  526                432
Source: Economic Review of UP, 1972.
July 18, 1975



82'            r                dAFGHANISTAN|
_                                                                                                                  (CI N D I A
P rcid e sh               J T AR'                                                                                                                          (Ti bet)
¾ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~C  Hd   NA                                          B1>                                   HUTAN~-
TTr         L1                            '2 UTTARNP[ADESH- WATER SUPPlYANGDE                                                              RMA
<ebNE                                                  i                                                                   D<  I               UR MA
t   -    ALt                             0        0T                10      10       
zf>                78                                                                  AILES       B0    100  8                         Raind DpmSay F                       _engal
Co      RI LANKA
0                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
N ~~       if ~UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
tNt              A 4ESVVV~~~L-T.DS-                        SCAlEOVTA
DE'E~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                          MAIN -0D5                       0   TOWNS
10-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
--AYS W-1  -1) ~ ~ ~ ~ /                  -
it.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Ewh                                                      1~ r.SohdN-t.-
(D                                                                A~~~~~~~bns 
2V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
rp     `V~~~~hpN
r0r'                  C       ~~~      ~~~      ~~4 0  DO  120  IDAo
000  7                                                                                      DO                                            000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 4  6  o  0






_________________                                                                                                *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD-IN1385
I N D I A                                                                               < L                                                    /
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT  QD<>o7,   -
Koaol Town Jol Sansthon
Water Supply Scheme
City of Lucknow
PRKRD E III          IN.                  ' -T-.-.- 
_.A_W OIERAEDAO SANMD 'DI             /       c*ER                                                                                                                                     2 ,;     _                      j*
.IER WIATER DIN MO MAIN                                      ,                                                                                                                                /
''     *    OVERHEAD STAOHAE TOAAE                                                                                             (                                        ,            *s*                           y 
._              .e  _                 .;. _ '                                                                                        --'-.Sf,:'/   .  _;              .   \        ', O 5TER PUMING STAT O  ,  , &   a    ,    S  A    ,  .   , I  ,  k   ,A
7       :    VAITAAIIINADATREATH           ./  >   4_                                                                                                                                         ,        <       ,fl,     ,/                  - ,,        S        ,.¢ 
~~INAVVENNHThENAIHAA    ~            ~            b/                                                                                                                                                                                     AA
@ @ * * C T V EOUNDAR ES   ,   !   1, 1   >   /   c- ,                           ....   |          .  .    ,       -S '   s   - / r      X           \ 4 i -  <   -1- -r         <  1*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --  H 
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
-      ADD                                   -A                                                                                                                                                      ID                                      7.1. :    !f   t   r    0 Xf  
. DAER                                           I               <                                       VA                                      y                                      .A-~  X  -; 
I                                                    AX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
*       c c..              *                           At'                                70 7-,                                                                                            AADI/ -U-,  t
c~~~                                                   ~ 'A       /X >                                  -- \  DVGATS /
C 1/                                                                                                                                       79 P D8 c-                                      A7wj =             >fSn 4                                                                          f
_~~~~~~~A                                          _                                       A                                  __                                         _       >                            V                                              *  S   Ie.






. - ___                                                     .BS RD-11386
I N  D  I A                            \               -- 
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                   A
Kaval Town Jal Sansthan                          F                           :
Sewerage Scheme
City of Lucknow                                             ',*
/ j    .                                                            I,?11*@
FFQF--EAFA1A,FF:
; 'I   B  POMPI:bTAT-OS1,8                                      
23 TREATMDNTWORDA,>                                                         /=    '; t,,
FOAFAo                                DS                                                       ( .\ '   
***.C TYfNlCA.RDARFFF  /iq\s \ss  
E-:*:        fo          > T-T-T_.                                                     SSR                     :'
Ilv-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AeAA                        ''Gi _?
s H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 






IBRD 1138~
UTTAR PRADESH WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT,LLRR~ EM                                                                                                                                                                               IRI1L CA,
Patha  Rural Water Supply Scheme                                                                       'ATT>-                                                                                     ~s A
Typical  Sub-Project                                                   /NRNA                                                                                                                                      I
Bundelkhand Jal Sansthan                                                     -AWTF-
EIAIT,    '  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~         MAEML7<         ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      N,1
7                      Z                           /IAI N1
N. TAAAMAR.  (                 N                AA AMAA H-R
AITTO,T/AAM RITA-N                                                                                        RAT ARK  --~-A
L-AETEMJTIRAA'ENI                                                                         .                                                       "IWR                                                      C
CA-EETETRT A-     R7-MATO(
AlAN                       CCTEECIJTE RETCTCI                                                                                                                                                                                        - 'A. 
/                                                   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
WIES~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           RMIATA



