CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 585 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUIBER 585 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between The State of Uttar
Pradesh acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Uttar Pradesh), and the
Association, Uttar Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the Project (the said agreement being hereinafter called the Uttar Pradesh
Agreement);
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Jal Sambharan Tatha Sewer Vyawastha Nigam (hereinafter
called the Jal Nigam), the Jal Nigam has agreed to carry out the Project and to
undertake certain other obligations in respect of the Project (the said agreement
being hereinafter called the Project Agreement);
(D)   The Jal Nigam intends to contract from the Life Insurance Corporation
of India (hereinafter called LIC) a loan of Rsl80,000,000 (hereinafter called the
LIC Loan) to assist in the financing of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in an agreement (hereinafter called the LIC-Jal Nigam Loan
Agreement), including those set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement,
to be entered into between LIC and the Jal Nigam;
(E)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
LIC, the parties thereto have agreed to coordinate the withdrawals and use of
proceeds of such financing (the said agreement being hereinafter called the LIC
Agreement); and
(F)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the Uttar Pradesh Agreement and in the
Project Agreement,
NOW TIIEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, that in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted to paragraph
5:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State of India,
or any successor thereof.
(b)   "Uttar Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and Uttar Pradesh, as the same may be amended from
time to time and such term includes all agreements supplemental to the Uttar
Pradesh Agreement.
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Jal Nigam of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(d)   "LIC Agreement" means the Agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and LIC, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(e)   "Ordinance" means the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage
(Second) Ordinance, Ordinance No. 10 of 1975, dated May 20, 1975 promulgated
by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.
(f)   "Act" means the proposed legislation incorporating the provisions
substantially in accordance with those set forth in the Ordinance.


﻿5
(g)   "Sub-project" means a water supply project, a sewerage project or a
water supply and sewerage project carried out or proposed to be carried out under
the Project.
(h1)  "Jul Saunsthan" means a local authority established under Section 18(1)
or 19(1) of the Ordinance for the improvement of water supply and sewerage
services in any specified area of Uttar Pradesh.
(i)   "KAVAL" means the towns of Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad and
Lucknow, in Uttar Pradesh.
(j)   "KAVAL Jal Sansthan" means a Jal Sansthan for a KAVAL town
and areas contiguous thereto.
(k)   "local body" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2(12) of the
Ordinance.
(1)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, no
withdrawals from  the Credit Account shall be made in respect of expenditures
for a Sub-project unless:
i)         Uttar Pradesh shall have established a Jal Sansthan with
jurisdiction over the area in which such Sub-project is located
in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance; and


﻿6
(ii)       the Jal Nigan shall have furnished to LIC and the Association:
(A) the agreement referred to in paragraph (i) of Section 2.08
of the Project Agreement: and (B) the technical report referred
to in paragraph (ii) of the said Section, for such Sub-project.
(c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section,
withdrawals may be made from the Credit Account in respect of foreign
expenditures under Category (1) of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement until June 30, 1976, or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,000,000 for Sub-projects in respect of which the provisions of sub-paragraphs
(i) or (ii) of paragraph (b) of this Section have not been complied with at the
date of such withdrawal, provided that no withdrawal shall be made under this
paragraph unless the Jal Nigam shall have furnished to the Association a list of
the equipment and materials in respect of which such withdrawal is requested,
acceptable to the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1976, or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, provide
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the equipment and materials referred
to in paragraph (c) above are being used for Sub-projects in respect of which the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (b) of this Section have been
fully complied with.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit. shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30,. 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing


﻿7
September 1, 1985 and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of I') of Sich principal amouinUt, and each installment thereafter to he one and
one-half per cet (1-1/2',) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of' Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
Uttar Pradesh and the Jal Nigam to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Uttar Pradesh Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively, all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh and the Jal Nigam to perform such obligations
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Uttar
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
projects.
Section 3.02. When, with respect to any goods to be procured under Section
2.03 of' the Project Agreement, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as
defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement), the Borrower
shall immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract,
and no reviews of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or
by any of' its agencies. and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly
made available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls
inder Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule
I to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract, (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of' such materials promptly and in such
(Lantities as shall be required f'or such contract.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of Uttar Pradesh under the Uttar Pradesh Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of the Jal Nigam under the Project Agreement;
(c)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of LIC under the LIC Agreement;
(d)   Uttar Pradesh shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Jal Nigam;
(e)   the Ordinance or the Act shall have been amended in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Jal Nigam to carry out
its obligations under the Project Agreement, or the ability of the Jal Sansthans
to carry out their operations.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Jal Nigam will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(g)(i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Jal Nigam to withdraw the proceeds of the
LIC Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the LIC-Jal Nigam
Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the LIC Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)     Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Jal
Nigam establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Jal Nigam to perform any


﻿9
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project aie available to the Jal Nigam from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Jal Nigam under the LIC-Jal Nigam  Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (g)(i)(B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Uttar Pradesh Agreement on behalf
of Uttar Pradesh have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Jal Nigam have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c)   che execution and delivery of the LIC Agreement on behalf of LIC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(d)   the Act has been assented to by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, or
by any other authority having jurisdiction, and has been published in the Official
Gaziet te;
(e)   Uttar Pradesh has made available to the Jal Nigam working capital
in an amount of not less than Rsl6,000,000;


﻿10
(     ) Jitfar I'Iudesil1 has ordered the coinstitiihon of thIindclkhand Jli
S isItIIaII  wit II jIrisdicIiI over the  entire areas of tIistiricts Ikiu, I lImiipIIr, .JulIIn,
Jhunsi and Ialitpur with effect froil not later than January 1, 197(, and has
publishied a notification to this effect in the Uttar Pradesi official gazette, and
(g)   the execution and delivery of the LIC-Jal Nigam Loan Agreement on
behalf of LIC and the Jal Nigam, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action and conditions precedent to
initial disbursements, if any, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Uttar Pradesh Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Uttar Pradesh, and is legally binding
upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Jal Nigam, and is legally binding
upon the Jal Nigam in accordance with its terms;
(c)   that the LIC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of LIC, and is legally binding upon LIC in
accordance with its terms; and
(d)   that the LIC-Jal Nigam Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, LIC and the Jal Nigam,
respectively, and is legally binding upon LIC and the Jal Nigam in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date January   26, 1976 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿II
Section 6.02. ''hc following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 1 1.01 of lie Geiieral Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affars
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and ma-             10,600,000          100% of foreign
terials procured                                  expenditures
by international                                  (C.I.F.) and 60%
competitive bid-                                  of local expendi-
ding                                              tures (ex-factory)
(2)   Equipment and ma-              9,700,000         60% of local expendi-
terials procured                                 tures (ex-factory)
by methods other
than international
competitive bid-
ding
(3)   Civil works                   13,000,000         60%
(excluding ex-
penditures on
land)
(4)  Consulting ser-                 2,200,000         100% of foreign
vices and train-                                  expenditures and
ing                                               60% of local ex-
penditures
(5)   Unallocated                   4,500,000
TOTAL        40,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(0)   1he Icri "f6reign expenditures" means ex)Cnditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and f'or goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Bol-rower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
expenditures incurred after June 18, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $500,000.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If' the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of' any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿14
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
)cvelopmenlt Credit Agreement, by notice to thc Borrower. cancel sich amount
ol tie Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proeceds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to assist in a comprehensive reorganization
of the water supply and sewerage sector in Uttar Pradesh, to construct and improve
water supply and sewerage services and to introduce a sound public utilities
approach to such services in selected areas of said State. The Project consists of
the following parts:
Part A     -     Institutions
1.   Providing technical assistance, training, specialized equipment and spare
parts for the development and strengthening of the Jal Nigam and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, of the five KAVAL Jal Sansthans and three other
Jal Sansthans. Services will be provided to assist in the investigation and design
of Sub-projects as necessary, and in technical, rnanagement and financial training,
including training in the operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage
systems.
2.    Studies of the financial and resource generation capacity of the Jal
Nigam and Jal Sansthans including recommendations for water and sewerage tariffs,
taxes and charges and conditions for lending by the Jal Nigam to the Jal Sansthans
and local bodies for Sub-projects and other capital works in the water supply and
sewerage sector.
Part B     -     Sub-Projects
1.   Construction of approximately 1,000 systems for improving water
supply to the five KAVAL Jal Sansthans and to about 2,000 villages and small
towns in the other Jal Sansthans. The water 3roduction in the KAVAL Jal Sansthans
will be increased by approximately 5 m /sec, improvements will be made to
existing water treatment plants in these towns and some existing equipment will
be replaced. Additional wells, pumping stations, service reservoirs, about 800 km
of transmission mains and distribution systems will be provided in the areas of
the other Jal Sansthans. The water supply to the villages and small towns in the
area of jurisdiction of the other Jal Sansthans will also include construction of
new wells, intake works, treatment facilities, about 2,200 km of transmission and
distribution mains, electrical and mechanical equipment, instrumentation, vehicles
and spare parts.
2.   in areas under the jurisdiction of the KAVAL Jal Sansthans,
improvements will be made to the existing sewerage systems and about 175 km


﻿긔


