CONFORAIED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 585 IN
Uttar Pradesh Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 585 IN
Uttar Pradesh Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1975


﻿UTTAR PRADESH AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1975, between THE STATE OF UTTAR
PRADESH acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Uttar Pradesh) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Uttar
Pradesh and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of each party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under the Uttar Pradesh Agreement, the performance
by the Jal Nigan of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the management,


﻿4
structure, administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the Jal Nigam
and the Jal Sansthans and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b)   Uttar Pradesh shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part
to enable the Jal Nigam to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance of any such obligation of the Jal Nigam.
Section 2.02. Uttar Pradesh shall make available to the Jal Nigam: (i) funds
equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower;
and (ii) an amount of RslO0,000,000. Such funds shall be made available to the
Jal Nigam on the following terms:
(a)   a grant in an amount of Rsl80,000,000;
(b)   a loan in an amount of Rs240,000,000, to be repayable over not less
than 18 years, including a 3 year grace period, and bearing interest at a rate not
exceeding that charged by the Borrower in the standard arrangements for
development projects, on the balance outstanding from time to time; and
(c)   each disbursement under the said loan and grant to be made available
to the Jal Nigam shall be made promptly as required to enable the Jal Nigam
to meet its expenditures in respect of the Project in a loan/grant ratio of 4:3.
Section 2.03, Uttar Pradesh shall cause each Jal Sansthan to make regulations
on the maintenance of accounts and the preparation of final accounts and balance
sheets, prescribing a commercial-type and accruals accounting system, not later than
three months after the date of establishment of such Jal Sansthan, or such other
date as the Association shall agree. Uttar Pradesh shall cause to be furnished to
the Association for its comments the drafts of said regulations before they are
formally adopted by any Jal Sansthan.
Section 2.04. Uttar Pradesh shall use its best endeavours to ensure the
equitable valuation of property for tax purposes (including water and sewerage
charges) in the areas of jurisdiction of the Jal Sansthans.
Section 2.05. In the event that Uttar Pradesh instructs the Jal Nigam or
any Jal Sansthan to hire staff in excess or in advance of the requirements referred
to in paragraph (b) of Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall
furnish to the Jal Nigam  or to such Jal Sansthan through the Jal Nigam grants
in amounts sufficient to cover the salaries and emoluments of such excess staff.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Without limitation or restriction upon any other provision of
this Agreement, Uttar Pradesh undertakes to review the functioning of the Jal
Nigam, and pursuant to such review, to make available to the Jal Nigam funds
sufficient to cover the difference, if any, between the recoveries made by the Jal
Nigam  from  its operations and the funds required by the Jal Nigam to meet its
statutory obligations.
Section 2.07. Uttar Pradesh shall provide to any Jal Sansthan through the
Jal Nigam upon its establishment sufficient working capital, including cash to
finance its initial operations.
Section 2.08. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Jal Nigam and each Jal Sansthan
to: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Association made of its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Jal Nigam and of each Jal Sansthan and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿6
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh of this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary, Local Self Government Department
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
INDIA
Cable address:
SECRETARY LSG
Lucknow


﻿7
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under .this Agreement on behalf
of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by the Secretary, Local Self Government
Department or such other person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in
writing.
Section 4.03. Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Uttar Pradesh, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Uttar Pradesh pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representatie


