CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 348 PNG
Project Agreement
(Smallholder Livestock Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED JANUARY 4, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 348 PNG
Project Agreement
(Smalfliolder Livestock Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED JANUARY 4, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and PAPUA
AND NEW GUINEA DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called PNGDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Administration of Papua New Guinea (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that PNGDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower and PNGDB, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to PNGDB on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PNGDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PNGDB shall carry out Part B of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency


﻿4
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, and financial
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PNGDB in the carrying out of Part B of
the Project, PNGDB shall employ agricultural consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Part B of the Project and
to be financed out of the part of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
PNGDB by the Borrower, shall be procured through normal commercial channels
and under procedures acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PNGDB shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the part of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part B of the
Project.
Section 2.05. PNGDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the part of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this
Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to inspect Part B of the Project,
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project, the report of the
consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on the progress of Part
B of the Project, the expenditure of the part of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.06. PNGDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
PNGDB shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PNGDB
Section 3.01. PNGDB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿5
Section 3.02. PNGDB shall not amend the Lending Policy Statement without
prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.03. The operating policies and procedure for the carrying out of
Part B of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
the Association and PNGDB.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PNGDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. PNGDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of PNGDB and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower, Association and PNGDB shall
otherwise agree, PNGDB shall at all times manage its financial affairs in such manner
as shall enable it from its operating income:
(i)         to cover all its operating expenditures and charges; including
taxes, if any, and interest payments on borrowings;
(ii)        to make adequate provision for bad or doubtful loans; and
(iii)       to accumulate adequate general reserves.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and PNGDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and PNGDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of PNGDB and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and PNGDB shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, The
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement and the performance by PNGDB of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. PNGDB shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all properties and equipment of PNGDB and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of PNGDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify PNGDB of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.


﻿7
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For PNGDB:
Papua and New Guinea
Development Bank
P. 0. Box 500
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Port Moresby


﻿8
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of PNGDB may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the said Managing Director shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. PNGDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of PNGDB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by PNGDB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R. J. Goodman
Director
East Asia and Pacific Department
Asia Regional Office
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Edmund M.W. Visbord
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   PNGDB shall ensure that:
(a)   All Sub-loans shall be appraised in terms of incremental returns and
particular attention shall be given to the repayment capacity of the borrower;
(b)   All Sub-loans up to A$3,000 shall bear a minimum interest rate of
7-1/4% p.a., and all Sub-loans in excess of A$3,000 shall bear a minimum interest
rate of 7-3/4% p.a.;
(c)   Farmers shall contribute not less than 20% of each sub-project cost,
by way of cash and/or labor;
(d)   The following maximum    grace and total periods shall apply for
Sub-loans:
Grace Period                 Total Period
Lending Categories                      Years                        Years
Beef                                4                            12
Pigs                                2                             5
Poultry:    Layers                  2                             5
Broilers                 1                            4
Shorter grace periods may be prescribed if consistent with borrower's ability to
repay;
(e)   Sub-loans for beef cattle development involving clan-land shall only
be made where the applicant has obtained a written clan-land usage agreement
giving him permission to use the land during the term of the Sub-loan and for
an adequate period thereafter; and
(f Initially the number of Sub-loans for development of poultry shall
be limited to twenty, and further lending for poultry development shall only be
carried out after the results achieved from such initial development have been
evaluated.
2.    At the time of approving or disbursing, as the case may be, the Sub-loans,
PNGDB shall satisfy itself that the policies and procedures set forth in paragraphs
(e), (h) through (o) of Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement have
been followed.


