CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 348 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder Livestock Credit Project)
BETWEEN
The Administration of Papua New Guinea
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 4, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 348 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder Livestock Credit Project)
BETWEEN
The Administration of Papua New Guinea
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 4, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,        dated     January  4,    1973,     between   THE
ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)  The Project will be carried out partly by the Department of
Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries of the Borrower and partly by Papua and New
Guinea Development Bank (hereinafter called PNGDB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
PNGDB part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to make the Credit available to the
Borrower upon inter alia the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and PNGDB and in a
letter of undertaking of even date herewith from the Commonwealth of Australia
to the Association.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and PNGDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PNGDB pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Ordinance" means the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank
Ordinance 1965 (No. 2 of 1966), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)   "PNGDB" means the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank, a
body corporate established and existing under the Ordinance;
(e)   "DASF" means Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fishenes of the
Borrower;
(f)   "Lending Policy Statement" means the Lending Policy Statement
adopted by the Board of PNGDB on November 18, 1971, as amended to the date
of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to time after
consultation between PNGDB and the Association;
(g)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by PNGDB,
out of the proceeds of the part of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
to a farmer under Part B of the Project; and
(h)   "A$" means the Australian dollar.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be mac-) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be rnade on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Part A of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured through
normal commercial channels and under procedures acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
March 1, 1983, and ending September 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on September 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Treasurer of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through
DASF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural and financial practices.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause PNGDB to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable PNGDB to perform such obligati.ns, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)  The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided to DASF and
PNGDB, promptly as needed, any funds, facilities, services and other resources
required by DASF and PNGDB to enable them to carry out Part A and Part B
of the Project respectively.
(d)   The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of $4,600,000 from
the proceeds of the Credit to PNGDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PNGDB under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
provide, inter alia, for (i) the relending of an amount equivalent to $4,000,000
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, and for payment of interest
by PNGDB at the rate of 1-1/4% per annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time; and (ii) the provision of capital to PNGDB in an amount
equivalent to $600,000.
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall continue to exercise all such care and take
all such measures as shall be necessary on its part for controlling the spread of
Brucellosis. In the event the Borrower finds active Brucellosis on any farm the
Borrower shall consult with the Association on the measures the Borrower proposes
to take to continue its eradication program, so that the implementation of Part


﻿7
B of the Project so far as it relates to the development of beef, shall continue
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall, during disbursement of the Development Credit, strengthen DASF by
providing staff, housing and administrative facilities, satisfactory to the Association,
and consistent with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be modified, from time to time, by the agreement of the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all steps practicable to ensure that
so long as Sub-loans made to farmers for the development of beef are outstanding:
(A) such farmers receive for meat marketed by them prices no less favourable
than those received by other producers for the same grade of meat; and (B) adequate
facilities for transportation and storage of meat or beef, as the case may be, are
available, whenever necessary to facilitate movement thereof from areas of surplus
to areas of short supply.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish and maintain or cause to be
established and maintained a system to monitor and evaluate the financial and
economic benefits accruing from the Project.
Section 3.06. Until the completion of the disbursement of the Credit, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain training and research facilities, satisfactory
to the Association, and consistent with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified, from time to time, by the agreement
of the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out
of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as the same
may be amended by agreement among the Borrower, Association and PNGDB.
Section 3.08. As far as practicable, the Borrower shall ensure that any dispute
as to rights under clan-land usage agreements is promptly referred to an appropriate
tribunal.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the livestock training centres and
buildings included in Parts A(ii) and A(iii) of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect Part A of the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. During the disbursement of the Credit, the Borrower shall
employ a duly qualified and competent person to the position of Project
Coordinator, to assist the Assistant Director in Charge of the Animal Industry
Division of DASF, consistent with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be modified, from time to time, by the Agreement of the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the said part of the Project.
Section 3.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for
purposes of Part A of the Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by PNGDB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the appointment of the Assistant Director in Charge of the Animal
Industry Division of DASF, the administration, operations and financial condition
of PNGDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the


﻿9
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PNGDB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Boirower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threate.- to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by PNGDB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿10
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   PNGDB shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of PNGDB under the Project Agreement.
(b) PNGDB shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they
mature.
(c)   The Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of PNGDB to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PNGDB or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that PNGDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿' 11
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PNGDB.
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PNGDB; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
PNGDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and PNGDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, PNGDB, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of PNGDB in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PNGDB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
PNGDB in accordance with its terms.
Section  7.03.   The   date  April  4,  1973   is  hereby   specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04, 3.05,
3.08, 3.09(b)(iii), 4.01(a) and 4.02(a) of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 6.02 and Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Treasurer of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasurer
Box 2249
Konedobu
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:
Treasurer
Port Moresby
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s / Edmund M.W. Visbord
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s R. J. Goodman
Director
East Asia and Pacific Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               o of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Sub-loans for                 4,218,000      )
beef develop-                                )
ment and                                     )
fattening                                    )
II.   Sub-loans for                   279,000      )     90% of total ex-
pig develop-                                 )     penditures
ment and                                     )
fattening                                    )
III.  Sub-loans for                   103,000      )
poultry devel-
opment
IV.   Technical Services              400,000            100% of total
(buildings, vehicles                               expenditures
and equipment)
TOTAL              5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   The term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
territories of the Borrower; and (b) the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territori-s, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that


﻿15
if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories
of which goods are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to May 1, 1972 under Category I and exceeding
an amount equivalent to $600,000; and
(b)   payment for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amoun, of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I, II or III shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer
required therefor will be reallocated by the Association, at the request of the
Borrower, to any other Category (excluding Category IV) by increasing
correspondingly the amount allocated thereto, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category 1, 11 or III shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from any other Category (except
Category IV) as regards which there is a decrease in the estimate of expenditures,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for a smallholder livestock
development in Papua New Guinea and includes:
Part A::
(i)         Provision  by   the  Borrower of agricultural extension     and
associated support services for the development and over-all
supervision of the program, including the appraisal and
supervision of smallholder Sub-loans for beef cattle, pigs and
poultry.
(ii)        Provision by the Borrower of: (a) livestock education services
for  training  smallholders   and   extension  staff; (b)   the
construction, furnishing and equipping of two new livestock
training centers; and (c) additional staff at four regional in-service
training centers.
(iii)       The expansion of research staff and the provision of extra
research facilities (including buildings), by the Borrower for
increasing applied research on beef cattle, pigs and poultry
smallholder production problems.
Part B:            Provision  by  PNGDB     of loans to    smallholders for the
development of beef cattle, pigs and poultry.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
(A)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means The Administration of Papua New
Guinea."
(B)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph 12:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(C)   The last tour lines of Section 4.01 shall read as follows:
"may be made in respect of expenditures in the currency of the
Commonwealth of Australia or of the Borrower such withdrawals shall be
made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably select."
(D)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(E)   Sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:
"(ii) the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank
guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia because of a failure by the
Commonwealth of Australia to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement.
(F)   Paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Borrower will
be able to perform its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or there shall occur any such change in the nature and constitution of the
Borrower as shall make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to carry
out its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement."


﻿18
(G)   The word "Borrower" is deleted in paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 and
in the sixth line of Section 7.01(b) and the words "Commonwealth of Australia"
are substituted therefor.
(H)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
(I)   In Section 6.06, the words ", the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(J)   In Section 8.02, the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(K)   The term "or the Commonwealth of Australia, as the case may be"
is added after the word "Borrower" in paragraph (k) of Section 8.03.
(L)   Paragraph (a) of Section 10.01 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"(a) the execution and delivery of the Development Credit Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action, including action of the Commonwealth of
Australia; and".


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
DASF Staff, Housing and Equipment for the Project
---------------- Year -----------
1          2          3          4
Project Coordination
Project Coordinator                    1          1          1          1
Livestock Officers                     1          1          1          1
Typist                                 1          1          1          1
Clerk                                  1          1          1          1
Special Livestock Services
Regional Livestock Officers            4          4          4          4
Field Supervisors (District            6          6          6          6
Coordinators)
Extension Services
Rural Development Officers             6          9         11          5
Assistant Rural Development           12         20         25         15
Officers
Rural Development Assistants          34         52         62         26
Typist                                 6          9         11          5
Clerical Assistant                     6          9         11          5
New Houses and Furniture              41         23         14           -
New Office Stores                      6          3          2           -
Vehicles
New Four-wheel Drive                  22          8          5           -
New Motor Bikes                        6          3          2           -


﻿20
SCHEDULE 5
Training and Research Facilities
A. Farmer Training
1.   Livestock Farmers' Training Center
The Borrower shall construct, equip, and staff a Livestock Farmers' Training
Center at Moitaka II (Launakalana) near Port Moresby, with a capacity of 48 places
to train farmers or junior DASF staff per course.
2.    Existing Livestock Farmers' Training Centers
The Borrower shall continue the livestock courses currently given at the
centers at Baiyer River (72 places), Erap (48 places), and Urimo (48 places).
B. In-Service Training
1.    In-Service Livestock Training Center
The Borrower shall construct, equip, and staff an In-Service Training Center
with 30 places at Lae to train diploma and certificate holders of the staff of DASF.
2.    Regional In-Service Training Centers
The Borrower shall employ one additional staff member (of Assistant Rural
Development Officer or Livestock Assistant grade) for attachment to each of the
four regional in-service training centers.
C. Research
1.    The Borrower shall strengthen Animal Industry Research Stations so that
professional and management staff members shall be as set forth below:
Number of
Professional
and Management
Category         Station                                Staff
Beef cattle      Erap                                     6
Urimo                                    2
Bena Bena                                3
Baiyer River                             2
Moitaka                                  2


﻿21
Number of
Professional
and Management
Category         Station                                Staff
Pigs             Goroka                                   4
Poultry          Bubia                                    3
2.    Research will be of a strictly applied nature and emphasis will be placed
in testing production systems for beef suitable for smallholders in the different
major ecological zones. Emphasis in pig and poultry work will be given to nutrition
and management aspects for improving production under conditions similar to those
of the smallholders.
3.    The Borrower shall construct new poultry laboratories and shall provide
housing for expanded staff and minor necessary items of equipment at all locations.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 6
Operating Policies and Procedures
(a)   DASF staff shall assist applicants in preparing farm plans and budgets,
shall appraise sub-projects, provide close supervision during development thereof
and shall visit farms thereafter regularly until the Sub-loans are repaid;
(b)   All Sub-loans shall be appraised in terms of incremental returns and
particular attention shall be given to the repayment capacity of the borrower;
(c)   All Sub-loans up to A$3,000 shall bear a minimum interest rate of
7-1/4% p.a. and all Sub-loans in excess of A$3,000 shall bear a minimum interest
rate of 7-3/4% p.a.;
(d)   Farmers shall contribute not less than 20% of each sub-project cost,
by way of cash and/or labor;
(e)   Sub-loans shall be made only to such farmers who are in areas where
satisfactory marketing channels (including slaughter facilities) shall exist;
(f)   The following maximum      grace and total periods shall apply for
Sub-loans:
Grace Period                   Total Period
Lending Categories                        Years                          Years
Beef                                  4                            12
Pigs                                  2                             5
Poultry: Layers                       2                             5
Broilers                     1                            4
Shorter grace periods may be prescribed if consistent with borrower's ability to
repay;
(g)   Sub-loans for beef cattle development involving clan land shall only
be made where the applicant has obtained a written clan land usage agreement
giving him permission to use the land during the term of the Sub-loan and for
an adequate period thereafter;
(h)   Prior to bringing beef ca)tle provided for under the Sub-loan on the
farm the farmer shall have installed boundary fencing and yards thereon;


﻿23
(i)   Wherever possible, prior to receiving beef cattle provided for under
the Sub-loan, the beef cattle farmer or such farmer's herder shall have attended
a Farmer's Training Course;
(j)   As a general rule some legumes shall be established in the first year
on each beef farm covered under the Project to provide seed or planting material
for extending grass legume pastures in the following years;
(k)   Sub-loans for beef cattle development shall be made so as to ensure
that the farms have not less than 15 breeders except in exceptional cases;
(1)   Sub-loans for pig development shall be made only to such farmers
as are in areas where good yields of sweet potato or other suitable bulk feeds
can be obtained and where adequate supplies of such feeds and supplementary
feeds are available;
(m)   In connection with the Sub-loans for pig development: the farmer shall
(i) build houses for pigs before bringing them on his farm; (ii) when the pigs come
on the farm, have yielding sweet potatoes or other suitable bulk feeds and have
a supply of protein supplement sufficient for not less than one month (the Sub-loan
will finance the protein requirements until the farmer is able to purchase the same
from the sale of his pigs); and (iii) have labor and land sufficient to grow sweet
potato or other feeds required by him;
(n)   Sub-loans for poultry    development shall be made only        after
examination and approval thereof by DASF's poultry husbandry adviser;
(o)   Sub-loans for poultry development shall be made only to such farmers
as are located in areas where adequate supplies of good quality poultry feed are
available; and
(p)   Initially the number of Sub-loans for development of poultry shall
be limited to twenty, and further lending for poultry development shall only be
carried out after the results achieved from such initial development have been
evaluated.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 7
Project Coordinator
1.    The Project Coordinator will require a degree in Veterinary Science or
Agricultural Science or equivalent qualifications, with appropriate experience in
the implementation of livestock development and a sound knowledge of technical
and economic aspects of livestock production and animal health.
2.    Within the framework of DASF and PNGDB organizational and administrative
procedures, the Project Coordinator's role will include:
(i)         coordinating, through appropriate channels, the supply of inputs
necessary for the implementation of the project, and the
marketing of farm products;
(ii)        planning and supervising the collection of physical and financial
performance data relative to the Project;
(iii)       regular assessment of the progress of the Project consistent with
the Borrowers and the Association's reporting procedures; and
(iv)        assessment of the progress and performance of ancillary
industries and operations necessary for the Project.


