Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFaCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13916
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2027-ZR
JANUARY 18, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit = Zaire (Z)
US$ 1 00 =    Z 300            January 1989
USS 1.00 =     Z 2,000         December 1990
USS 1.00 =     Z 91,080        December 1991
US$ 1.00       Z 2,736,250     December 1992
USS 100=       Z 2,529,500     March 31, 1993
US$1.00 =      NZ 12*          December31, 1993
US$1.00 =      NZ 108          February 28, 1994
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)            =       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       =       0.62 mile
I sq. kilometer (km2)    =     0.386 square miles
1 metric ton (ton)     =       2,204 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFDB           = African Development Bank
BEX            = Bureau Executif
CCCE           = Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique (France)
CFMK           = Chemin de Fer de Matadi A Kinshasa
GECAMINES   = La Generale des Carrieres et des Mines
KfW            = Kreditanstalt fur Wienderaufbau (Germany)
P              = Ministry of Planning
MPE            = Ministry of Public Enterprises
MPW            = Ministry of Public Works
MTC            = Ministry of Transport and Communication
OR             = Office des Routes
OCN            = Office des Chantiers Navals (part of reorgaLized ONATRA)
OCS            = Office des Chemnins de Fer du Sud (part of reorganized SNCZ)
ONATRA         = Office National des Transports
OTP            = Office des Transports et Ports (part of reorganized ONATRA)
PDG            = President Delegue General
PIP            = Public Investment Program
RVA            = Regie des Voies Aeriennes
RVF            = Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM            = Regie des Voies Maritimes
SAC            = Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR            = Staff Appraisal Report
SONATRAD    = Societe Nationale de Trading
SNCZ           = Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer ZaIrois
VN             = Voie Nationale
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* In October 1993 the Bank of Zaire introduced a new currency unit, the New Zaire
(NZ), equal to NZ 1 = Z 3,000,000.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 18, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion report on Zaire
First Transport Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2027-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion report on Zaire - First Transport Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2027-ZR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
It contains a summary of the comments by one of the Borrower's two implementing agencies.
The Project was financed by Credit 1017-ZR (SDR 57.3 million, or US$ 75 million
equivalent), by the African Development Bank and five bilateral donors (US$ 173 million equivalent).
It was to improve (i) the efficiency of the transport services - specially for copper and other minerals
- provided on the country's primary transport route, the Voie Nationale; and (ii) the finances and
management at the two large state-owned railway/river transport/port enterprises operating the
multimodal chain of transport. Physical items were mainly for track and rolling stock rehabilitation,
port civil works and equipment. Decentralization, staff attrition, and devolution of selected activities
to the private sector were central to institutional reform.
The credit was effective in June 1989 and the project was due to be completed by mid-1995.
Equipment was procured and a large part of the program of track renewal and overhaul of railway
rolling stock was completed. Institutional reforms made little progress. Starting in October 1990,
project implementation was increasingly hampered by external factors, such as the deterioration of
security, shortage of fuel, inflation, diversion of traffic to other routes, strikes at the copper mines
and in transport agencies, and the withdrawal of major cofinanciers. The project was tentatively
redesigned after IDA disbursements were suspended in February 1992, but little progress was made.
Finally, the project was terminated and the Credit closed in December 1992, after some US$ 33
million (44 percent of Credit) had been disbursed.
The project was large and ambitious, in a risky macroeconomic and political environment.
The large number of cofinanciers added to its complexity. The institutional reform plan was not
owned by Government and management of the enterprises; it rapidly proved inapplicable in major
respects.  The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability as unlikely, and the
institutional impact as negligible.
The PCR is comprehensive and summarizes adequately the experience gained from project
inception to completion. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIRST TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT CREDIT 2027-ZR
Evaluation  Summary ..                        .............................................I
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE ...........................I
1.   Project   Identity     .                             .............................................                       1
2.   Introduction                                                            ..............................................    I
A.  Project Setting ........1......................................I
B. Previous World Bank Involvement ..............................................                                 3
3. Project Objectives and Description ........                      .......................................3
A. ONATRA  ..............................................4
B. SNCZ.                         .............................................. 4
4. Project Design and Organization.                            .............................................. 4
5. Project Implementation .                     ..............................................                                5
A. Credit Effectiveness ..............................................                                            5
B.  Implementation  Schedule                        ..............................................                S5
(i) ONATRA ..............................................                                             6
(ii) SNCZ ...............................................                                            7
(iii) Project Revision ...............................                 .................7
C. Project Risks .....................                 .........................                                  8
D. Project Costs &  Disbursement ..........................................                       ....            9
E. Loan Allocation ..............                                                                               - 9
F Variance from appraised projects                                                .9
6. Project Results                                                         .9
A. Operational and Management results                                                .9
(i)ONATRA ...............                                                                      ,,  10
(ii) SNCZ .10
B. Economic results.                                                                                             II
C. Financial results .............                                                                               12
D. Procurement .12
(i) ONATRA ...............                                                          ,                12
(ii) SNCZ.                                                                                           12
E. Project Sustasability .12
F. IDA ..                                                             ,                                         13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



H. Project Relationship  &  the Borrowcr ...........................                                           14
(i) ONATRA                                                                    ....... .............. 14
(ii)   S N C Z      .....     .   .   ...  ... ....     ... ...     .... ........     ..     .. ......     ...   15
I. Consulting  services and technical assistance                                             .................    15
J.  C ofinanciers                          .                                  ................................    16
K .    Project  docum entation   .............. ...........................                        ...  ......... 16
PART II: EVALUATION FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......................... 18
I   Comments on Part I of the association's PCR                                                                             18............ ...................... 18
A .   institutional   R eform     .................1. ...  ........ .........................    ...............  18
B Project Implementation                                           ................. 19
2. Evaluation of Association's Performance and Its Relationship with ONATRA
during Project Implementation                                            ....................... 20
3. Evaluation  of ONATRA's Performance Dunng  Project Implementation..   ............ 20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................................... 21
ii



i
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FIRST TRANSPORT REHABII,TATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2027-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Transport Rehabilitation Project in
Zaire, which was approved on May 30, 1989 and for which Credit 2027-ZR in the amount of SDR 57.3
million was signed on June 30, 1989. Disbursements under the credit were suspended on February 4,
1992, and the credit was canceled on February 2, 1993, earlier than the originally scheduled closing
date (December 31, 1995) with an undisbursed balance of SDR 33.2 million or 56% of the original
conmnitment as of May 24, 1994.
The Infrastructure Operations Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department,
Africa Regional Office prepared the PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III). The
Association requested the Borrower to prepare Part II on June 22, 1993, but thus far, only one of the
executing agencies, ONATRA, has prepared a Part II, which is complemented by a longer evaluation
report (105 pages) which is available in the project files and was used as one of the sources of
information for this report.
Preparation of this PCR started in Washington, D.C. in April 1994, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, consuitation with those involved in project management, and
internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FIST TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The First Transport Rehabilitation Project's central objective was to improve the
efficiency of the services provided on the country's primary transport route, the Voie Nationale
(VN), thereby improving the profitability and volume of copper exports, as well as improving
the financial status of the two largest enterprises running the multimodal chain of transport, the
Office National des Transports, ONATRA, and the Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer du
Zaire, SNCZ. Of a total credit of US$280 million (of which US$75 million from IDA), 64%
was allocated for SNCZ and the remainder for ONATRA. The African Development Bank
(AfDB) cofinanced the ONATRA component and five donors cofinanced the SNCZ component
(AfDB, Belgian Government, German Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau, French Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique, and Commission of the European Community).
2.    The project built upon previous IDA efforts to improve the functioning of the national
transportation system (most notably the ONATRA Modernization Project and the First and
Second Railway Improvement Projects) but differed from these past efforts because it focused on
institutional and management reform. Both project components included: (i) institutional reform
to decentralize and to open up certain activities to the private sector (although the ONATRA
component went farther than the SNCZ component which only included studies of private sector
participation); (ii) financial reform (clarification of the obligations of the state through use of
Contrat Programmes, increases in tariffs and delegation of authority to increase tariffs to
ONATRA and SNCZ, debt restructuring, financial accounting, divestiture of loss-making non-
transport activities, staff reduction program); and, (iii) measures to improve operational
performance (the use of Operational Action Plans, investments in maintenance, better
management systems, better human resource management). In addition, the SNCZ component
included implementation of a commercial action plan to attract new business.  During
negotiations substantial emphasis was placed on obtaining politically difficult tariff increases as a
sign of comnmitment to the project.
Project Implementation
3.    A large number of studies and technical work preceded the project, including pre-
qualification of bidders and preparation of bidding documents. This preparation contributed to
good progress in implementation of physical works and acquisition of equipment from
effectiveness in October 1989 to September 1990; however, some of the more difficult
institutional reforms experienced delays (voluntary retirement, financial decentralization for
ONATRA, private concessions). Less than one year into the project, a number of exogenous
factors, combined with ONATRA and SNCZ's inability to cut costs and improve management in
response to a fast deteriorating economic environment caused the project to slip dramatically
behind target. Exogenous factors included withdrawal of Belgian (June 1990), AfDB (March
1991) and KfW (October 1991) cofinancing assistance, strikes at Gecamnines starting in June
1990 and later at SNCZ, and soaring inflation during 1990-1991 (265% in 1990 and 4,229% in



iii
First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report  Evaluation Summary
1991). The economic decline led to severe shortages of fuel, and even of paper money, and
made the project's initial focus on tariff increases ineffective as a means to achieve financial
equilibrium given elastic demand for transport and the high fixed costs along the VN which kept
tariffs high.
4.     In the April 1991 the Governrment unexpectedly announced major reorganizations of
ONATRA and SNCZ, which were not coordinated with the institutional reforms proposed under
the project and which did not address the structural problems of the organizations. In February
1992, in the context of an overall streamlining of the portfolio, IDA decided to suspend
disbursements, which would only be lifted when the Government had adopted a strategy to
salvage the enterprises by shifting the project emphasis to cost-reduction (staff reduction) and to
more radical movement towards private ownership. Initially the GOZ agreed with the strategy
and created an Executive Office (BEX) with IDA support to interface with the ministerial
committee overseeing public enterprise reform, to conduct the necessary studies and to provide
technical oversight on decisions taken by the managing directors of the two enterprises. This led
to a six month postponement of credit cancellation. However, the revised project ultimately did
not receive the necessary political support as the members of the national democratic conference
(Conference Nationale) voted against the proposed reform. With full compliance of only eight
of 35 covenants, IDA canceled the credit on December 31, 1992.
Project Results
5.     Overall, the project was not successful in meeting its objective of reducing the transit
time on the VN, which actually grew  substantially over the life of the project.  Physical
implementation and procurement, particularly with SNCZ investments (64% disbursed),
represented a strong point in implementation, but the "core" institutional and management
reforms agreed on with the Government and ONATRA were far from being completed. In 1989
and 1990, few perfornance indicators met targets. After mid 1990, these indicators deteriorated
below levels at project effectiveness as traffic levels plumnneted in tandem with strikes at
Gecamines and SNCZ, and with Gecamines' decision to export copper through alternate routes
to the VN. These lower traffic levels combined with the GOZ's failure to uphold its obligation
under the Contrat Programme (compensate the enterprises for social services provided and
restructure debt) and thus contributed to poor financial ratios.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.     The main weakness in the project's perfornance stems from: (i) a lack of ownership
among the enterprises' directors for devolving activities to the private sector and for
decentralizing financial control at ONATRA, ownership which was essential given the complex
nature of the reform; (ii) the reversal of initial high-level government support for politically
difficult measures to reduce costs and staff size; and, (iii) the underestimation of some of the
exogenous project risks such as deterioration of the macroeconomic and political environment
(inflation rates were already behind adjustment programn targets at the time of credit approval)
and of copper production. In addition, the VN was only viable if Gecamines did not divert
traffic to alternate lower-cost routes (such as via East London which was 13% less expensive per
ton to France including shipping, or via Dar Es Salaam which was 27% less expensive per ton
not including shipping). Thus, the VN's traffic levels were to be retained through service
improvements and cost reduction. However, lack of progress with cost reduction and improved
efficiency made the project very vulnerable to Gecamines' decision to divert traffic to alternate



iv
First Transport Rehabilifation Project - Project Completion Report  hEvaluation Summary
routes, which normally enjoyed much higher traffic levels, and thus had more room to lower
tariffs. Any future efforts to improve operation of the VN, particularly within the current public
management structure, should fully account for the considerable challenge of transforming this
into an economically competitive route. In addition, any future efforts to privatize transport
services on the VN would need to take into account the interdependence of each service on the
VN in making the route competitive.
Sustainability
7.     The management instruments put in place at SNCZ and ONATRA were too dependent
on the support of qualified technical assistants, such as those assisting SNCZ, and were not
really adopted as a part of the culture of the enterprise. With the exception of the autonomy of
tariff setting, the Contrat Programme did not have a lasting impact (for example, the GOZ did
not respect its obligation under this agreement to compensate SNCZ and ONATRA for
uneconomic services).






PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:               Zaire First Transport Rehabilitation Project (ONATRA/SNCZ)
Credit Number:      2027-ZR
RVP unit:           Africa Regional Office
Country:            Zaire
Sector              Transportation
2. INTRODUCTION
8.    This project completion report assesses the largest transport project ever implemented in
Zaire (credit of US$280 million including all cofinanciers, of which $75 million from IDA), the First
Transport Rehabilitation Project which was approved on May 30, 1989 and canceled on February
2, 1993 with an undisbursed balance of US$42.24 million or 56% of the IDA credit.l
A. Project Setting
9.    At the time of project preparation, Zaire had entered into a Bank-supported adjustment
program covering the 1984-1989 period and including as one of the primary objectives the
restructuring of public enterprises in the transport sector. The program initially held promise as
GDP growth averaged 3.3 percent per year from 1984-1986 compared with a 0.7 percent increase
in the preceding three years. By late 1986, however, Zaire was once again unable to contain budget
deficits and non-productive public spending, had partially reversed previous progress in price
liberalization and exchange rates, and the program went off track. During 1987-1989 the adjustment
program resumed but implementation was inconsistent, and the program was again suspended in
March 1990, as GDP growth reached an average of only 0.6 percent per year.
10.   Since early 1990, political gridlock and social instability has driven Zaire to unprecedented
social and economic deterioration. Production capacity, investrnent and fiscal mobilization have
been rapidly declining. The national railways have completely ceased operation. During 1989-
1993, GDP declined by more than 20 percent, copper production by 70%, consumption of petroleum
products by 50%, and road and river traffic by over 70%. The local currency depreciated over
100,000 times between November 1989 and November 1993, and in 1992 inflation reached 2,700%.
In response to the dramatic changes in the economic and political environment since March 1992,
IDA undertook a critical review of the portfolio, and decided to cancel problem projects, and to
reorient the portfolio in order to focus on those services essential for economic recovery
(infrastructure maintenance, key social sectors and survival of the Government of Zaire's - GOZ -
capacities and perforning agencies).  The First Transport Rehabilitation Project was among the
projects revised during this restructuring.
11.   Transport Sector &  Macroeconomic Links: The transport sector is critical to the
development of Zaire not only because of the country's size (about 2.3 million km2) but also the
I With USS103 million earnarked for ONATRA and US$176.9 million earmarked for SNCZ



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                     Part I
uneven distnbution of its population, natural resources and economic activities. The principal traffic
corridor is the Voie Nationale (VN), a transport chain (railUriver/raill/road) stretching nearly 2,700
km from the mnineral-rich inland Shaba Region to the Atlantic Ocean on the estuary of Zaire River.
Although more cumbersome, and costly than altemative export routes, the VN is considered
important to Zaire's economy because it provides the country's only egress for its mineral exports
and other merchandise within the country.2 The GOZ viewed the rehabilitation of the VN as a
key step in increasing the volume and profitability of mineral exports of the government-owned
mining company, Gecamines, which produced 85%  of Zaire's total exports (copper alone
represented 54%) and roughly 25%  of the GOZ's fiscal receipts. The improvement of transport
along the northern branch of the Zaire, was also seen as a way to better exploit the vast
agricultural resources of the Equateur and Kisangani area.
12.    Two of the  largest companies involved in running the VN, and the focus for this
project, were the Office Nationale des Transports (ONATRA), and the Socitet Nationale de
Chemins de Fer du Zaire (SNCZ), with respective staff of 18,300 and 24,000, totaling about
11%  of all public sector employees in Zaire in  1987.   ONATRA, a highly  centralized
organization, oversaw much of the transport on the portion of the VN extending from Ilebo to
the Port of Matadi (Matadi and Kinshasa Ports, Matadi-Kinshasa Railway-CFMK, a fleet of
river craft on the Kasai river to Ilebo), managed shipyards (Ndolo and at Mbandaka and Boma)
and held responsibility for several non-transport activities (security, police force, civil works,
print shop, plantations, schools, urban transport for workers, discount food stores for staff,
health services).
13.    SNCZ managed 3,600 krm of railways in the southern, central, and eastern regions of
Zaire, with 1,000 kin of separate railway linking the north-eastern of Upper-Zaire with the Zaire
river. In addition, SNCZ operated the ports of Ilebo, Kalemie, and Bukavu, boat transport on
the Kivu and Tanganyka Lake on the middle and upper sections of the Zaire river, and trucks in
the east and north of the country. Unlike ONATRA, SNCZ was created as a public enterprise
after the merger of three privately managed firrms during the 1974 "Zairianization" movement.3
The consolidation contributed to problems of (i) insufficiently trained local staff without a
culture of private sector management; (ii) financial problems as only one of the firms was not in
deficit (K.D.L); and, (iii) salary systems with no link to productivity or cost of living
differentials. Items such as fuel consumption per traffic unit were rising faster than revenues for
both agencies, further worsening the financial balance sheets. Poor planning had also led to the
practice by SNCZ of leasing locomotives and wagons at high cost from abroad because newly
rehabilitated rolling stock were not readily available, a practice which was not viable over the
medium-term given financial and foreign exchange constraints.
14.    As public enterprises of a conmmercial nature, the GOZ  influenced both SNCZ  and
ONATRA by: nominating General Directors; setting tariff rates which were seldom adjusted to
account for inflation and thus fell well below cost; and failing to adequately compensate the
enterprises for services they provided of a public nature (low volume routes, provision of
medical care and other non-transport activities) thus leading to practices such as the cross-
2 Because of low traffic volumes and cross-subsidies to other low-traffic railway networks in the North and East of Zaire, the VN
incurred high unit costs, about 10% to 15% more expensive overall than alternate routes. SNCZ's low volume eastem routes
carmed only 9.7% of total rail traffic, and its Northem route carried only 8.9%. compared to the South and Central network
which accounted for 89% of the total traffic.
3 K.D.L.. C.F.L. and Vici Zaire                                                               2



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report             Part I
subsidization of the profitable port of Matadi, on which ONATRA maintained a monopoly, to
less profitable activities such as CFMK railway, hospitals, schools, high overhead and
management costs. This latter practice also obscured the transparency of financial accounts (and
thus profitability and costs) for different departments.  In addition, ONATRA  and SNCZ
suffered from personnel management problems conmmon to public enterprises (excess staff,
inflexible compensation systems set according to civil service law rather than performance,
uniform salary among regions, automatic advancement, poor motivation, high absenteeism).
Finally, under capitalized since their creation (1971 for ONATRA, 1974 for SNCZ), the GOZ
had never replenished operating funds.
15.   The other parastatal linked to the functioning of the VN, the Regie des Voies Fluviales
(RVF), was responsible for the maintenance of the river navigation network (i.e. marking river
passes and dredging to maintain a clear channel). The quality of RVF operations directly
affected the speed at which ONATRA barges could operate on the rivers because of shifting sand
bars. RVF was the subject of a similar and concurrent reform supported by the Navigation
Improvement Project (approved in 1987) which was later restructured to aim at the privatization
of most of RVF's activities.
B. Previous World Bank Involvement
16.    This project is the seventh project supported by IDA on the VN, with six projects completed
or almost completed at the time of appraisal.4 ONATRA: The previous ONATRA Modernization
Project (1982-1990) had focused on improving operational efficiency through investment and
training. A Rehabilitation Project for Matadi-Kinshasa Ports (1983-1990) aimed to upgrade
transport services on the VN, including studying the potential for development of private sector
transport. These transport projects continued to run into problems because they placed greater
emphasis on investments than on managerial and institutional constraints.
17.    SNCZ: IDA's First Railway Project (1981-1987) focused on improving equipment
maintenance, and studying the possibility of divesting SNCZ of its low-traffic routes (mostly in
the north of the country) and supporting improved management practices. This project was
canceled with the withdrawal of Arab cofinanciers, poor implementation of reforms, and the
deteriorating economic situation in Zaire. The Second Railway Project's (1983-1990) objective
was to encourage better and more stable management practices, to increase the capacity of
production by rehabilitating an important part of the rolling stock and to reinforce operational
and financial functions. As of 1988, this project appeared to be on track.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DEsCRIPTION
18.    The project's primary objective was to improve the efficiency of ONATRA and SNCZ,
thereby halving the time required to travel from one end of the VN (Matadi) to the other (Shaba
where the copper mines are located - see Figure 1 on page 17) which had more than doubled
from the early 1970's to 1987. The Board condition to submit a joint operational action plan
reflected the importance accorded to treating the VN as one system. Combining the two reforms
also increased the size and number of project components; these components were organized in
4First Transport Project CR255-ZR, Rail/River Transport Project CR571-ZR, SNCZ Railways Project CR902-ZR, Second SNCZ
Railway Project CR1475-ZR, ONATRA Modernization Project CRI 180-ZR and the Matadi-Kinshasa Ports Rehabilitation
Project CR1335-ZR, and one just starting, the Navigation Improvement Project CR1761-ZR.  3



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - IProject Completion Report            Part I
several base documents which contained the specific actions to be taken under the project
(operational action plans for ONATRA and SNCZ, the commitment of ONATRA to its Projet
D'Entreprise of 1987, the use of Contrat Programmes with the GOZ, a Tableau de Bord and
commercial action plan for SNCZ). Several of these documents served as management tools,
which were innovative for public enterprises at the time. The project objectives, appropriately,
focused on output indicators related to the overall expected impact from the project (performance
indicators on transit time and productivity) rather than intermediate steps.
A. ONATRA
19.   In contrast with the previous projects, the ONATRA component placed emphasis on a
major reorganization and movement towards private-sector management style.  Institutional
reform comprised: Decentralization of activities, financial control, and management
responsibility as outlined in ONATRA's Projet d'Entreprise of 1987; divestiture of loss making
activities such as non-transport services (hospitals, schools, work on force account, police,
agricultural farms); privatization of shipyard operations, and charter barges to private companies
in selected river transport operations; transfer of activities for which ONATRA is not well suited
to the private sector; and, strengthening of technical skills through technical assistance and a
human resource development program.  The project also comprised elements to improve
financial performance such as tariff increases, cost controls, debt restructuring and capital
transfers from the GOZ, delegation of financial management to operating units along with a new
accounting system at that level and early retirement of 2,000 workers in 1989. In addition to the
use of an Operational Action Plan noted above, ONATRA was to improve efficiency through
rehabilitation of infrastructure, maintaining equipment, and facilitating cargo traffic. Finally,
the project included physical investments in civil works and equipment replacement. Specific
details of the components, which are too numerous to list here, are presented in Part III, Table
4.
B. SNCZ
20.    The SNCZ component included measures for financial recovery similar to those for
ONATRA (Contrat Programme, tariff increases, rationalization of operations to reduce waste,
divestiture of low-traffic lines or compensation from GOZ, debt restructuring, staff reduction of
2,000). In addition, the SNCZ component included the elaboration of a commercial action plan
to diversify revenue sources, but placed less emphasis on institutional reorganization, pointing to
the need only to conduct a study of the streamlining or private concession of non-transport
activities. Finally, the project included a number of physical investments consisting of a major
rail renewal effort (303 km), replacement of equipment and spare parts. These are listed in
detail in Part Im, Table 4.
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
21.    The project was developed over less than a year and a half (from October 1986 to
February 1988 appraisal). Nonetheless, preparatory studies carried out by consulting firms and
technical assistance were extensive, including several studies of the parapublic sector, a major
organizational study on the institutional reform required to improve ONATRA's operations
(Projet d'Entreprise mentioned above), feasibility studies financed under the Second Railway
Project for each sub-project and elaboration of an investment plan for SNCZ. During a donors
meeting in Paris in March 1988 the project grew substantially (cofinanciers included the AfDB,
4



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report            Part I
the Belgian Government, KfW, CCCE, and the EEC). IDA played a lead role in discouraging
investment in additional equipment or infrastructure which did not appear sustainable given
management and operational problems at the agencies (equipment with low priority) and sought
to maintain the focus on the "core" institutional reforms in order to avoid the problems
encountered in previous projects. Nonetheless, some donors financed investments outside of the
project as part of the agencies' respective investment programs. Negotiations lasted from July to
October 1988.
22.    ONATRA and SNCZ were the implementing agencies for the respective components of
the project. The project conditionality implied obligations on the part of the GOZ' under the
respective Contrat Programmes, and the role of the GOZ was specifically discussed with the
implementing agencies. SONATRAD, the government procurement agency, was to procure
equipment which would be used by both ONA'I RA and SNCZ.
23. Issues at Negotiation: During and prior to the yellow cover review of the project, discussion
focused on attaining tariff increases which were a condition of Board presentation. During
negotiation, signiature of the Contrat Programme was changed from a Board condition to a
condition of effectiveness.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Credit Effectiveness
24.    The credit became effective in October 1989, 27 months after preparation began. IDA
agreed to postpone the restructuring of ONATRA's debt from a condition of effectiveness to a
condition of disbursement. SNCZ satisfied several conditions of effectiveness early on; it signed
its Contrat Programme in January 1989, set out a plan for reducing staff in May 1989, and
finalized a commnercial plan by December 1990.
B. Implementation Schedule
25.   As noted above, the project, which had an initial closing date of December 31, 1995,
was canceled three years early because of lack of compliance with loan covenants, and dramatic
changes in the economic and social environment. The primary exogenous events which affected
project implementation include:
(i) Early withdrawal of cofinancing assistance; in June 1990 the Belgian government
withdrew all development assistance at the request of President Mobuto, eight months
after project effectiveness (representing 14% of financing for the SNCZ component); in
March 1991 the AfdB suspended all disbursements because of arrears accumulation thus
withdrawing 53% of planned ONATRA financing and 43% of financing for track
renewal for SNCZ; and, in October 1991 KfW withdrew its participation from the
project, thus suspending technical assistance to the maintenance workshops for rolling
stock and brake conversion for SNCZ.
(ii) Late in 1990 inflation rates started to soar well beyond initial projections (265% in
1990 and 4,229% in 1991) contributing to shortages of fuel, and even of paper money
(consumption of fuel for river transport of ONATRA dropped from 15 million liters in
5



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                    Part I
1990 to 3.6 million liters in 1992).  This adversely affected  costs and financial
performance as well as rendering a key project component, tariff adjustments, obsolete.
(iii) In June 1991 Gecamines went on strike, followed by SNCZ in July. This led to the
Governnent's decision to sub-divide both ONATRA and SNCZ into several enterprises.
Then, in September/October 1991, major riots erupted in Kinshasa and Shaba province
and travel to outlying regions was suspended. The process of political opening led to a
multiplication of unions, paralleling the multiplication of political parties. At the same
time, changes in government became increasingly frequent.
(iv) In 1992, a National Conference was held to pave the way for democracy. Key
project conditionality (concessions to the private sertor, redurtior in p.orsonnel) became
wrapped up in the debate of the National Conference, and ultimately were voted down.
(i) ONATRA
26.    The project evolved into roughly four phases from effectiveness to cancellation. First,
from early 1990 until October 1990 except for the procurement of handling equipment which
proceeded quickly, essentially slow progress was registered, particularly on the institutional
reforms, with some of the early missions already mentioning suspension.' Second, from October
1990 to July 1991 the impact of external factors on the project grew (fuel price increases and
shortages, and the consequent unexpected decision of Gecamines to divert traffic to alternative
southern routes) combined with continued slow implementation. In response to the profound
change in the macroeconomic environment, the GOZ unexpectedly announced a reorganization
of ONATRA in April 1991 which showed little correlation to the projects' initial institutional
reforms. Third, from July 1991 until project cancellation ONATRA, the GOZ and the
Association discussed informal suspension of the ONATRA component, as the macroeconomic
and political climate deteriorated sharply. Fourth, the Association, the GOZ and ONATRA
attempted unsuccessfully from May 1992 to December 1992 to revise the basic project and
salvage ONATRA and SNCZ.
27.    The changes in the macroeconomic and political environment, which would have been
difficult to predict, were sufficiently dramatic to affect both public and private organizations in
Zaire.   However, ONATRA's failure to  react promptly  to  the environment (improving
operations through better organization and coordination among agencies, cutting fuel
consumption, pursuing voluntary retirement as scheduled for 1989) meant that its financial and
operational health deteriorated to a greater degree than would have otherwise been the case.6
ONATRA also did not aggressively pursue financial decentralization, and thus the expected
improvements in managerial and salary autonomy were not achieved. Finally, drops in revenue
due to the strikes and fuel shortages led Gecamines to divert traffic through Southern export
routes, a risk which project planners minimized during appraisal because they assumed
Gecamrines, a state-owned company, would support the VN for foreign exchange savings and
political reasons.
51n May 1990 during the same period, excessive rains and continued weak management combined to block the Port of Matadi for
two months, adversely affecting traffic levels along the VN as well as ftnancial targets.
6 For example, some other parastatals such as SNEL, the natonal electricity company, were also negauively affected by the
economic environment, but still managed to adjust operarions to provide and even improve service.
6



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                   Part I
28.    On the other hand, ONATRA did raise tariffs, although these took longer than expected
to become automatic (in June 1991, for example, discussion continued on the weighting of tariffs
to take into account the higher fuel prices). Also, inflation quickly increased tariffs to levels
above what demand could stand without risking significant declines in traffic volume.  The
second action which had a negative impact on the project was the GOZ's decision to reorganize
ONATRA without prior consultation of the Association. ONATRA was divided into a top-
heavy holding company (2,000 staff persons), an Office of Ports and Transport (OTP) and a
Shipyard  Office (OCN).  In theory, the reorganization  was to  further the process of
decentralization, to lead to a gradual process of privatization of some functions, and to separate
the shipyard office from ONATRA's other operations so that it would be eas:er to attract private
sector participation. While some decentralization continued within OTP, the holding company
retained control over ONATRA's budget, thus detracting from the real financial and
organizational autonomy which was to occur under decentralization. The third factor which
slowed salvage of the situation was ONATRA's failure to provide the Association with any
written materials on the reorganization, in spite of repeated requests.
(ii) SNCZ
29.    Of the events described above, the exogenous factors that most influenced SNCZ were
the cancellation of Belgian assistance which resulted in the cancellation of the purchase of
shunting locomotives, and of mainline electric locomotives. A portion of the rail switches was
taken over by the AfDB consequently. In July 1990 the EEC took responsibility for financing
the technical assistance to SNCZ's Technical and Operations Department in order to continue
project execution. Similarly, although IDA eventually took over financing the portion of track
renewal to be financed by AfDB, renewal of 78 km still had to be canceled as did the delivery of
spare parts (US$ 21.6 million) which adversely affected the program to rehabilitate rolling stock.
30.    The unexpected reorganization of SNCZ in 1991 divided the enterprise into a holding
company housing the former board of directors, and three distinct enterprises.7 SNCZ was to
transfer its personnel costs (excessive workforce, benefits in-kind, conmnon salary index) and its
financial liabilities (approximately US$ 20 million) to the new entities without any injection of
capital for working expenses.   The Office des Chemins de Fer du Sud (OCS), serving
Gecamines, continued to hold responsibility for subsidizing the other two entities, CFU and SFE
(one serving unprofitable low-traffic routes to the North and the other carrying high operating
and overhead expenses), thus perpetuating the preceding situation, and annulling any of the
potential merits of the reorganization. As was the case with ONATRA, this was done without
consulting the Association and with little regard for the numerous studies of the enterprise
planned under the project.
(iii) Project Revision
31.    In light of the violation of financial and other covenants for both agencies, in February
1992 IDA suspended disbursement under the credit and recommended a substantial refocusing of
actions to be taken under the project in order to deal with the crisis faced by these
organizations.8 An inter-ministerial committee was created to attempt to reverse the deteriorating
7 The Office des Chemins de Fer du Sud (OCS) with the majority of traffic, the Soci6td des Chemins de Fer de l'Est (SFE), arnd the
Office des Chemins de Fer des Ueles (CFU).
8 Telex from A. Ballereau to ONATRA of Feb. 4, 1992 set out conditions to lift suspension.
7



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                          Part I
situation of public enterprises. ONATRA, SNCZ, the other enterprise participating in the VN,
the RVF, IDA, the GOZ elaborated the equivalent of a revised project agreement - a Protocol d'
Accord which deepened several key areas of the original project to boost the reform process to
reorganize and privatize many activities of the three enterprises. The agreement also allowed for
a lifting of suspension of disbursements in order to continue the SNCZ rail renewal. The other
conditions included: suspension of the union agreement (convention collective) with ONATRA
and SNCZ; substantial downsizing (initial tranche of 2,000 personnel of a total reduction of
about 6,000 for ONATRA) and creating an agricultural cooperative to absorb excess personnel
of CFU;9 moving towards concessions to the private sector in many more activities than
originally foreseen including leasing barges, and introduction of a strategy for having mixed
public and private ownership of the agencies with minority public shares; suppression of the new
holding company which added to costs with no increase in efficiency; respect of financial targets
in the project; suppression of activities on force accounts which could be made more efficient by
contracting with the private sector; and, creation of an Executive Office ("BEX") which would
assist the inter-ministerial conmmittee in overseeing the implementation of restructuring of the
three enterprises (ONATRA, SNCZ, RVF), and have full oversight of decisions taken by the
managing directors of each of the three public enterprises concerned. 10
32.     Since the Prime Minister had written to the Africa Region Vice President on June 10,
1992 confirming his support for the Protocol d'Accord, IDA delayed credit cancellation until
December 1992.   However, the National Conference (August, 1992) voted to eliminate the
BEX, not to lay off any personnel, and against allowing private sector ownership or
concessions. In December 1992, IDA recognized that the political and economic situation had
evolved to such a degree that reform was no longer possible, and canceled the credit.
C. Project Risks
33.    The economic analysis of the SAR identified three main project risks: (i) that managerial
improvernents will not take place; (ii) that the GOZ will not abide by the Contrat Programme
(tariff adjustments or compensation for social services); and (iii) that the alternative route
through Lobito might open. The strategy for addressing the first risk was to include "a critical
mass of technical assistance" in the project. The second risk was to be addressed by requiring
tariff increases up-front, and the final risk was not considered to pose a major threat to the
economic viability of the project." However, the capacity of technical assistants to compensate
for weak commitment was limited, and several other factors that were not mentioned as major
risks ended up having a substantial impact on project success including: (i) macroeconomic
stability which altered the effectiveness of revenue collection efforts (tariffs) to lead to financial
recovery; (ii) the degree of GOZ commitment at an early stage to the principle of reform; and
(iii) the stability of traffic on the VN and the assumption that the government-owned Gecamines
would not divert traffic to alternate routes which were open elsewhere for political reasons.
While the Lobito route did not open during the project, traffic was diverted to alternate routes
9 This included a plan to transfer excess personnel from all three agencies (ONATRA,SNCZ, RVF) to an independent executing
agency for a 'conversion fund: employees would continue to receive their salaries (minus transport allowances) and housing
until they found alternative employment.
10 Under normal circumstances ONATRA and SNCZ would not have been able to suspend the union contracts. However, because
they reorganized and essentially formed new enterprises, these contracts were no longer binding.
I IThe background notes on economic analysis identified slightly different risks which were closer to the actual events: (i) weakness
in ONATRA and SNCZ management; (ii) diversion of traffic to alternate routes (i.e. in case costs were not reduced on the
VN by the roughly 11 % needed to compete with the East London route); and (iii) increase in project costs.
8



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report          Parr I
(to the South via East London). The SAR included comparative cost analysis of different routes,
but assumed that the 11 % decrease in costs on the VN which was necessary to compete with the
East London route was well within the scope of the project's expected benefits.
D. Project Costs & Disbursement
34.   Out of the US$75 million IDA credit, US$32.8 million, or 43%, was disbursed.  The
actual disbursement for the IDA-financed ONATRA component of the project amounted to
US$6.2 million. ONATRA cofinanced, approximately US$900,000 in local currency (local
costs as reported by ONATRA). This represents 17% of IDA funds allocated to ONATRA,
compared to a target disbursement of 97% for the same period. Information is not available on
the final cost of other donor financing, although as of 1992, the AfdB had only disbursed
US$8.8 million of a total of US$55 million committed to ONATRA.
35.   About 64%  of IDA committments to SNCZ was disbursed (US$26.6 million) and
physical implementation progressed relatively well (a total of US$122 million was spent from all
donors, not all of which was part of the project). For both SNCZ and ONATRA project
components contractors were generally considered to be of good quality, with numerous
contracts falling below estimated cost.
E. Loan Allocation
36.   With the creation of the BEX  in May 1992, IDA allocated US$300,000 for its
functioning and technical assistance. Other than this item, there were no major revisions in loan
allocation.
F. Variance from appraised projects
37.   Project objectives evolved with the Protocol D' Accord of May 1992 to focus on cost
containment and privatization rather than the initial focus on revenue increases and only partial
opening to the private sector.
6. PRoJEcT RESULTS
A. Operational and Management results
38.   Performance Indicators: Performance on traffic levels, productivity, and cost fell well
below targets (see Part III Table 9 and 10 for status of covenants, performance indicators, and
specific actions under the project). The large gap between projections and performance stems in
part from dramatic declines in traffic due to both supply (fuel shortages in 1990 and late in
1991, continued poor maintenance and efficiency compared to private sector) and demand factors
(problems with Gecamines production and strikes which caused copper production to drop from
1,065 tons/day in 1990 to 709 tons/day in 1991 and diversion of shipments to the South,
economic instability, low purchasing power). Copper exports on the VN dropped from 274,694
tons in 1989 to a mere 31,837 tons in 1992. Overall traffic on SNCZ fell from 4 million tons in
1988 to 1.3 million tons in 1992, or a 66% drop over four years. Between 1990 and 1992
Matadi Port traffic declined by 46% and Kinshasa Port by 62%. Between 1990 and 1991 river
transport dropped by 28%. Because the number of personnel stayed the same, productivity
decreased. For example, productivity for river navigation declined from 75 tons per agent in
9



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report           Part I
1991 to 33 in 1992.  The share of exports transported via the VN fell from 54% in 1986 to
31% in 1992. The key indicator of project performance, the time required to go from one end
of the VN to the other, increased from 60 days in 1988 to 110 in 1992, despite some
improvement in the waiting time for wagons and barges between CFMK rail and Kinshasa port.
(i) ONA TRA
39.   The degradation in ONATRA's performance cannot be attributed entirely to exogenous
factors. Overall project implementation was poor, with only three of eighteen covenants
complied with, eight partly complied with, and seven not complied with at all as of October
1992.
40.   Institutional Reform: The key institutional reform envisioned, achieved only very limited
results (decentralization of police, decentralization of financial control of only small arnounts -
US$1,000, for CFMK and for River Transport operations in 1991) before becoming overtaken
by the unexpected reorganization of ONATRA (although some decentralization continued within
OTP). The plans to assess and reallocate personnel so that staff were trained for their positions
and the organization became less top-heavy were prepared but never implemented.  The
consulting firm, Cadic Gombert, suspended its work with the riots in September 1991 (45 man
months of 64 foreseen had been completed). Several components of the information system for
better monitoring performance and improving management at the regional level were put in place
as was computer hardware. However, as of 1993 the system was not being fully exploited
because of computer break-downs and lack of funds for repair and diskettes. On the positive
side, training of personnel to operate machinery at Kinshasa port improved equipment operation.
41.   Cost Control: Measures to control costs became even more essential with the growing
inflation in 1991, but were not effectively implemented. Although ONATRA met the first target
of reducing staff to 16,000 by 1989 through natural attrition, the more substantial downsizing
called for in the 1992 Protocol d' Accord to 10,000 staff did not receive the requisite political
agreement. Most components of the operational action plan never went beyond the assessment
stage. With some delay, a study was completed by Louis Berger on containerization of copper
exports (November 1990) but the recommendations were not implemented, in part because the
viability of such a scheme was put in doubt once copper traffic had declined. ONATRA allowed
the private sector to participate in the movement of logs at Kinshasa Port (for which the private
sector share of traffic increased from 36% in 1987 to 82% in 1992), but did not allow private
operators to provide other port services. Log traffic was the one type of traffic which increased
in 1992.
42.   Physical Implementation:  Implementation included some civil works, some wagon
renewal, and substantial purchase of equipment. Early in the project ONATRA processed five
of the ten procurement lots through competitive bidding (see paras. 51 and 52).
(ii) SNCZ
43.   Of 17 covenants, SNCZ complied with four, partly complied with eight, and did not
comply with five. In terms of operational results, on track renewal, which represented 51 % of
the financing of the SNCZ component, SNCZ accomplished the following: complete track
renewal for a 102 km section between Kamina and Tshipasa; 14 km track renewal between Malu
Malu and Ilebo, and; provision of railway material necessary to complete the work on 186 kIn
10



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                        Part I
including the rails, ties and switches. The program of rehabilitating rolling stock represented
32.7% of the SNCZ component and included the following:
13 remotorizations of shunting locomotives out of 25 projected (52%  completed)
renewal of 3 diesel locomotives of 13 foreseen (23%  completion)
4 major overhauls of locomotives of 7 foreseen (43%  completion)
1 renewal of electric locomotives of 12 foreseen (8% completion)
* 1,109 wagons renewed of 1,200 foreseen (85% completion)
44.    The delays in physical implementation compared to initial targets was due to: (i)
suspension of AfdB financing and the consequent cancellation of spare part delivery; (ii) SNCZ's
financial difficulties; and, (iii) delays in payment to the sub contractors for electric circuits.
45.    At OCS financial constraints prevented staff from purchasing sufficient fuel to continue
to operate at capacity, and strikes from 1990-91 (63 days) in addition to riots (23 days)
exacerbated this drop in traffic noted above. Quality of service also suffered as transit time
between Shaba and Ilebo passed from 25 days in 1988 to more than double that four years later,
52 days in 1992 (see Part III Performance Indicators).
46.    Management: The direct positive effect of the Contrat Programme of January 1989 was
the progressive adjustment of tariff levels which allowed for an increase in revenues. After
1992, SNCZ (or the new organizations) had the right to freely set their tariffs. Also, for each
department performance contracts were developed which assigned specific objectives needed to
meet the global objectives in the Contrat Programme and in the Project Agreement. In addition,
SNCZ introduced management control and planning tools to improve coordination among the
different activities of the agency. The enterprises also adopted financial controls to improve:
financial management; accounting for purchases and stocks; analysis of accounts; and
accountability and procedures of suppliers.
47.    Institutional Reform:   No serious attempt was made to implement the institutional
reforms (studies were delayed and devolution of transport activities to the private sector in
northern Zaire was not pursued), due to lack of political support.  Nonetheless, the work
completed under the BEX office could be used as the basis for work in the future, and thus the
status of work is listed in Part III, Table 7C.
B. Economic results
48. The economic rate of return of the project cannot be calculated given that only a fraction of
the planned investments were made and data is not available on expenditures of all other donors.
Even if the economic rate of return were to be recalculated, it would be highly likely to be
negative due to the dramatic variation from even the low-case scenario. While the maximum
cost increase of investment both for local and international goods was 20%, inflation reached
over 4,000% and benefits (lower costs) in real terms have not materialized." At the same time,
12 The higher domestic inflation rates do not directly affect the economic analysis, which was based on the assumption that
investments purchased under the project would be used properly and produce greater efficiency at lower costs. However,
these higher costs can have an impact on salaries, availability of fuel to opemte machinery, and on the amount of non-saltay
.rents' sought by those involved in the system. These indirect effects thus alter the efficiency with which staff opemte and
manage these investments, and thus the economic and financial benefits of the project.
11



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report             Part I
traffic levels, projected to be relatively stable, decreased substantially thus increasing unit costs
which were to decrease by 10% in order to achieve a net economic benefit.
C. Financial results
49.    The financial results were poor, and ratios fell well below covenant levels. By 1992 all
key ratios for ONATRA fell not only below target, but below their initial levels. In 1992,
ONATRA's current ratio was .21 compared to a target of 1.7 (see Table 8, Part III). This also
indicates a negative financial rate of return; according to initial financial projections, a current
ratio of I in 1992 would have yielded a financial rate of return of -6.3%. Because of the split of
SNCZ, accurate and comparable financial accounts are not available after 1990. However, OCS
represents about 91% of SNCZ's operations, and thus provides an indication of the enterprise's
financial health. In 1991, monthly labor costs accounted for 57% of collections on sales, with
the remainder consumed by extremely high debt service and subsidies to other subsidiaries
(leaving little or no funds for maintenance, operations). As of August, 1992, OCS' current debt
had risen to US$1 11 million, and long- and medium-term debt accounted for US$359 million, or
the equivalent of 54 months of revenues.
D. Procurement
(i) ONATRA
50.    Procurement was a strong point of project implementation. Generation of bid documents
and pre-qualification of contractors were started well before project effectiveness, Bank response
to requests for non-objection was rapid, and procurement was handled in bulk in order to save
money and time (10 lots). As noted above, five lots primarily of equipment were awarded and
delivered early on (see Table 7B Part III for specific procurement) while two lots required re-
bidding to ensure that all technical specifications were met, one lot was delivered late, and the
credit was canceled before the remaining lots could be procured. The primary problems which
ensued stemmed from the involvement of too many cofinanciers, and the withdrawal mid-way
through of the AfDB.
(ii) SNCZ
51.    Procurement handling at SNCZ was particularly rapid. For example, the contract for
25,000 tons of rails for SNCZ was signed in January 1989 and delivered by February 1990.
This required a massive transport convoy from South Africa (35 trains over 3,650 kin).
Similarly, a major contract for track renewal had already undergone international competitive
bidding and was awarded in November 1990. This initial progress was rapid compared to
previous project experience with SNCZ.
E. Project Sustainability
52.     The project reinforced SNCZ's management capacity to analyze data and to track and
train personnel, but did not lead to long-termn improvements in management culture at either
organization. The slightly better performance at SNCZ in physical implementation stems in part
from the high quality of technical assistance (Transurb consulting) and the somewhat stronger
management from SNCZ. Without the technical assistance to help hold together these
enterprises, and without strong leadership and commitment from ONATRA and SNCZ directors
12



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report             Part I
to significant management reform and privatization, even if economic conditions had been better,
management problems would have likely resurfaced. On a technical level, work carried out
under the BEX to identify the activities of each organization which could benefit from private
sector participation, could eventually be used as background for future efforts reform efforts in
this sector.
F. IDA
53.   IDA staff paid substantial attention to careful study of all of the management and
operational reforms needed to lower costs on the VN. However, the project design did not afford
sufficient weight to the risk that altemative routes would remain more competitive than the VN, thus
undermining its economic viability. Supervision was consistent with the same task manager
throughout the project cycle, timely (bi-annual missions except when riots broke out), and
rigorous (discouraging inappropriate or unnecessary investments, keeping dialogue constantly
open). The same performance indicators identified during the SAR were used throughout
supervision, thus facilitating cohesive analysis and a focus on the impact of the project.
54.   In hindsight, the main weakness in the project's performance stems from  (i)  an
overestimation of both commitment at the highest levels of Government and the GOZ's ability to
implement politically sensitive reforms (based on early signs of support from high-level GOZ
officials); (ii) a lack of ownership /agreement, particularly on the privatization/decentralization
reforms, among ONATRA/SNCZ directors, which was essential for such a large and complex
project; and, (iii) the underestimation of some of the project risks (i.e. diversion of Gecamines
traffic to lower cost routes) largely due to the early timing of the project analysis and
underemphasis on the least-cost analysis that was carried out. IDA was somewhat optimistic
about the ability of technical assistants to overcome the bureaucratic resistance and inertia
associated with making a public organization into one that functions more like a private
organization. Without the authority to control employment policy not even the best technical
assistants could restructure organizations of this size or overcome the larger political dimension
the latter stage of the project took on. This optimism can be partially attributed to the lack of
experience with civil service reform at that time. Although a lack of ownership was at the heart
of slow implementation, a greater emphasis could have been placed on cost-containment in the
up-front conditionality, as suggested in the project's economic analysis which highlighted the
importance of cost cutting more than tariff increases alone.
55.    Both economic and financial analysis for the project suffered from  changes in the
economic environment between early 1987 - the year upon which this analysis was based - and
1989 when the project became effective.  Although traffic projections were conservative
compared to estimates in previous projects (traffic growth of 5-6% for the ONATRA
modernization project versus 1-3% for this project), economic and financial analysis did not
include risk analysis of substantial declines in Gecamines production (although overall risk
analysis did include a scenario of 20% decrease in project benefits), largely because of record
production levels in 1986 and because IDA was at the same time supporting projects whose
central objective was to bolster Gecamines production. It was assumed that the IDA projects
would address the problems of low maintenance (which contributed to the cave-in of the Kamoto
mine) and the unsustainable way in which the mines had been excavated. However, one signal
which was minimized, was the fact that at the time of project approval, Gecamines production
had already fallen below the break-even point (500,000 tons).  Since Gecamines' products
accounted for roughly 20% of ONATRA traffic on the VN and 50% of SNCZ traffic, the
13



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report                 Part I
economic and financial benefit of the project was very vulnerable to the subsequent decline in
copper production from 443,000 tons in 1989 to 164,000 tons in 1992 and the diversion of
copper exports to alternate routes.  In contrast, competing routes were all transit routes, with
high traffic levels and for which the Gecamines traffic was only marginal. They thus had more
room to lower tariffs. This highlights one of the constraints of the project: With its high cost
structure, the VN was economically viable only if it could increase its efficiency and thus attract
higher traffic levels as envisioned under the project. Failure to improve efficiency (in addition
to the strikes, changes in the economic and political environment) meant that the VN could not
compete with these alternate routes.
56.    Given past poor performance of ONATRA  in meeting financial covenants in the
previous stream of projects, financial projections were optimistic, assuming that operating
charges/revenues (operating ratio) would decrease from 117% in 1987 to 88% in 1990 and that
the return on equity would become positive from 1990 onwards. These calculations were based
on inflation and exchange rate projections in the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). While the
SAC was on schedule when the project was first prepared, it had already experienced some
slippages by the time the project was approved."' However, even if this analysis were based on
more realistic projections, it would have been impossible to predict the type of hyper inflation
which ultimately took hold of the country, and upset the financial equilibrium of ONATRA and
SNCZ. This applies also to SNCZ which had financial projections showing a positive operating
result by 1991, and which showed that if either traffic or staff levels remained at 1988 levels,
the financial rate of return for the project would be negative (at least until 1995).
57.    Lessons Learned: The project experience suggests that in future IDA tramsport sector
assistance to Zaire, substantial attention be paid to assessing commitment to and ownership of
reform, particularly with regard to the principle of private sector participation, through both
formal and informal channels.  Moreover, the nature of this project (large size, complex,
reforms touching upon vested interests) made the need for ownership even more essential to
project success than for a straightforward investment program. Participation of cofinanciers at
times posed challenges for keeping the project focused on institutional reform more than on
acquisitions and the role that the task manager played in discouraging unnecessary reforms could
be emulated in future projects; in addition, if possible, future reform efforts could focus on
gaining up-front agreement from cofinanciers on the principle of reform and on caps to
investment which contradicts these principles. Finally, any future efforts to improve operation
of the VN, particularly within the current public management structure, should fully account for
the considerable challenge of transforming this into an economically competitive route in the
face of lower-cost alternatives. In addition, any future efforts to privatize transport services on
the VN would need to take into account the interdependence of each service on the VN in
making the route competitive.
H. Project Relationship & the Borrower
(i) ONA TRA
58.    Shortly after effectiveness it became clear that ONATRA and IDA did not appear to
share the same commnitment to the focus of the reform. ONATRA's actions demonstrated that its
staff never really believed in devolving activities to the private sector. Rather, ONATRA staff
13 Inflation reached 56% in 1989 while the project assumed 20% increases in both local and foreign cost.
14



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Complelion Report          Part I
thought that through aggressive marketing and management improvements it could regain traffic
shares.  Similarly, in June 1991 IDA staff did not share the same view as ONATRA's
management on the actions needed to address the financial and managerial problems threatening
the agency; instead of implementing new cost-cutting measures as advocated by IDA, ONATRA
management suggested the need for US$12 million in new investment. As of October 1992,
ONATRA's Directors still did not grasp the urgency of the situation and were continuing to
spend large amounts on non-operational expenses (personal benefits, cars, overhead, benefit
packages for Directors). However, it must be noted that this behavior took place in an overall
context where personal objectives took precedence over organizational objectives throughout the
public enterprise system.
59.   The 1991 reorganization of ONATRA and the creation of a holding company did not
reflect an increased commitment to reform. One technical assistant, for example, resigned from
OCS because its design seemed to be geared more towards finding an adequate position and
compensation for each of the directors than towards improving operations.   Efforts by the
General Director of ONATRA to introduce reform met with resistance (i.e. for downsizing)
from those with vested interests in maintaining the system as it was; thus the transition
government was unable to seize the opportunity offered by IDA to provide a form of "shock
therapy" to ONATRA and SNCZ in the face of political opposition.
60.   The fact that the project concerned not only ONATRA, but also the Minister of
Transportation and Communication as well as other ministers who were members of the GOZ'
Conseil Executif may have contributed to confusion in lines of communication. For example, in
correspondence the Minister of Transport and Communication described the high level donor
mission to assess the crisis with SNCZ as a donors Round Table to raise funds. Meanwhile, the
Association had telexed to SNCZ and ONATRA to clarify that the mission was not intended to
be a Round Table. Most illustrative of complexity and lack of a consistent approach to dialogue
with the Association by different members of government (Ministers, PDG's of ONATRA) was
the failure or resistance to share with the Association the legal documents describing the
unexpected reorganization of Sept. 21 1990. The creation of the BEX in 1992 effectively
improved and simplified the lines of commnunication, placing those with technical expertise much
closer (representatives of Minister of Plan, SNCZ, ONATRA, Gecamines) to the final source of
decisions, the Conseil Executif.  Even this effort did not ultimately succeed because of the
multiplication of interest groups affected and able to influence the outcome of the project (newly
formed unions, members of the National Conference).
(ii) SNCZ
61.   Collaboration with the government procurement agency, SONATRAD, proved fruitful
and efficient. Although SNCZ's performance differed before and after June 1990, the agency's
General Director demonstrated a willingness to reform. Nonetheless, the fundamental problems
of the agency were exacerbated by the economic crisis and the climate of political instability
which were at the heart of the project's failure; Government preoccupations with the reform
were not economic but political.
1. Consulting services and technical assistance
62.   The ability of technical assistants to overcome lack of basic commitment by management
and by government was overestimated, particularly if sustainable institutional development was
15



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report             Part I
the primary goal. The quality of technical assistance for the ONATRA institutional reform,
CEGOS, was considered only average.  The BEX  group included a number of technical
assistants and experts brought in to deal with the crisis, and seemed to perform well as did
technical assistants to SNCZ as noted above. After September 1991 most technical assistants
abandoned their posts because of political instability.
J. Cofinanciers
63.    One joint supervision mission took place with other donors (1/28 - 2/15 1991), and
another was planned before civil unrest erupted in September/October 1991. By the time the
project was canceled, most of the cofinanciers had also already withdrawn their funds.  The
cancellation of AfdB cofinancing and the eventual suspension of the project also led to problems
in payment, the imposition of substantial penalties and subsequent litigation by one firm,
Astaldi-Ric, which was working on SNCZ track renewal with IDA. AfDB funds were also
earmarked for computers to improving performance monitoring at ONATRA but these went
unpurchased. Civil works at Matadi and Kinshasa ports could not be carried out because they
were dependent on the completion of engineering studies which were to be FAC-financed, and
for which the financing never materialized. Similarly, for the renewal of axle boxes for 350
wagons, installation was delayed substantially because the tools needed to install the new
equipment was financed by the AfdB. With a project of so many cofinanciers, it would be
important in the future to avoid cofinancing components which are dependent of one another (the
SNCZ rail for example).
64.   The relationship with cofinanciers was generally good, with a somewhat different
approach of the AfdB and the Association over the importance to accord to hiring local staff for
contracts versus placing priority on the least expensive bid. These issues were negotiated prior
to project effectiveness.
K. Project documentation
65.    Documentation on cofinanciers' activities in general was relatively good (ONATRA
produced at least two reports, and SNCZ regularly provided IDA with well-organized cost tables).
However, in both cases investments under the project were lumped with cofinanciers' investments
under the agencies' investment programs, thus making it difficult to track project costs. Project files
were often difficult to follow because correspondence would not include referenced attachments.
16



Figure 1 - ZAIRE: National Transportation System on the Voie Nationa]e
1787 lanI                                         868 kn
(365kn)                (1422 lun)
(RVF)
Matadi                 Kinshasa                    Ilebo                      Shaba
Port                                               111P3 1]   w      < tMines
Export    Esury          ONATR   Rail                                      SNCZ Rail
ONATRA Fleet
ONATRA  ort                 SNICZ Port
VN = 46 Days rail/riverl 2655 lm
Alternate routes (1) Dar Es Salaam via Tanganyika Lake: 66 Days/ 2623 km
(2) Dar Es Salaarn via Tazara: 37 days/2414 kmn
(3) Southern route: 36 days/ 3522 km to Durban/ 3623 krm to East London
Cost Comparison (1987)
VN =                                16,128 Z/ton
Dar Es Salaam via Tanganyka Lake =  13,643 Z/ton
Dar Es Salaamn via Tazara =         11,800 Z/ton
Southem Route Via East London =     13,561 Z/ton



PART II: EVALUATION FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
66.   In August 1993 ONATRA produced an assessment of its implementation, Rapport
D'Achevement which is too lengthy to attach here, but which can be consulted in the project
files. SNCZ has not provided an evaluation of the project from its perspective.
1. COMMENTS ON PART I OF THE ASSOCIATION'S PCR14
67.   ONATRA's conmments on Part I (Section A) focus on two components, viz.:
-     institutional reform;
-     project implementation.
A. Institutional Reform
68.   Several inaccuracies were identified in Part I of the Association's PCR. These have to
do with the reorganization of ONATRA and SNCZ, which took place on April 3, 1991 and not
in September 1991. The enterprises in question were not split into separate entities but were
converted into a holding company with two subsidiaries, in the case of ONATRA (OTP and
OCN), and three in the case of SNCZ (OCS, SFE, CFU). Hence CFU is not a subsidiary of
ONATRA.
69.   With respect to the doubts raised about the institutional reform of ONATRA, i.e. the
decentralization of the operations departments, these cannot be attributed to the measures of
April 3, 1991, which continued and consolidated the decentralization within OTP, a subsidiary
specializing in transport and handling operations. By the same token, the conversion of the
shipyard office into an ONATRA subsidiary was intended to be considered as a form of
privatizing that entity because the only way to get the private sector interested in it was by
separating it from ONATRA.
70.   Contrary to the view of IDA, which wants privatization of the operations departments
to be abrupt and inimediate, ONATRA maintains, given the constraints in the field, that such
reforms should be carried out through the establishment of subsidiaries. ONATRA deeply
regrets the ignorance shown by IDA concerning the role given to the holding company in this
regard. It should be pointed out that the holding company has the authority to proceed with
the institutional reforms of its subsidiaries by presenting proposals to the Government (see
Article 11 of Order No. 044/91 of April 3, 1991, establishing the holding company. The cost
of the holding company, as calculated in 1992, accounted for only 0.2 percent  of OTP's
costs.
4 Those comments which the Association agreed with have been taken into account in Part I.
18



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report          Part II
71.   Another reason for the failure of the project, which was not mentioned in the PCR,
concerns the methods used by IDA in its dealing with ONATRA. As will be seen in point 2,
resistance to the proposals put forward by ONATRA's staff was hardly likely to result in the
solution of problems. ONATRA would like IDA to take due account of the opinions and
thoughts expressed by ONATRA's staff, without falling into the subtle trap of blocking the
reforms.
B. Project Implementation
72.   Most of the comments on the physical and financial implementation of the project are
accurate. It should be pointed out, however, that the report seems to minimize the efforts
made by ONATRA. Financial performance was in the order of 18.7% instead of the 84.5%
projected for the same period. This poor performance is simply the result of the project's level
of physical implementation.
(a)   the total amount disbursed in SDRs was 4,291,173.08. This amount, converted by
applying the exchange rates on the day and month when the disbursements were
effected, is equivalent to US$6.2 million. The amount of ONATRA's cofinancing
(US$900,000) disbursed in local currency exceeds the amount disbursed by IDA;
(b)   the cofinancing from AfDB was UCB 6,376,361.14. We do not know what exchange
rate was used to convert this amount into US dollars. However, using the exchange
rate in effect on April 30, 1992, as applied in our report of May 1992, the amount of
US$8.8 is correct;
(c)    cumulative disbursements at project closure were US$6.2 million, i.e. 18.7%
Compared to the original estimates, the figure should have been US$27.9 million, i.e.
84.7% (see Table 5.04 on page 182 of the Rapport DAchQvement;
(d)    reference should also be made to the other cofinancing agencies not mentioned in the
the evaluation report although they made a significant contribution to the project. The
ones in question are the Caisse Frangaise de Developpement, formerly the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and MEDIOCREDITO (Italy):
-     Total amount disbursed by CFD = F 158,123.636
-     Total amount disbursed by MEDIOCREDITO   ECU 15,477,863.
73.   With respect to the staff reduction, it must be kept in mind that the reorganization of
ONATRA in April 1991 could not on any account be used as an opportunity for large-scale
staff reductions because of existing legislation (employer replacement clause contained in the
Zairian labor code). Mention should be made of the fruitless efforts of ONATRA management
to proceed with a staff reduction in light of the socio-political climate.
19



First Transport Rehabilitation Project - Project Completion Report           Part 11
2.    EVALUATION OF ASSOCIATION'S PERFORMANCE AND ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH
ONATRA DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
74.   The relationship between IDA and ONATRA was not that of a partnership. In most of
the meetings that were held, the Bank experts opposed the proposals put forward by ONATRA
directors on the issue of reorganization. But it is more difficult for IDA to correctly perceive
the political, economic and socio-cultural climate in which ONATRA operates than for it come
up with ready-made solutions to problems that are diverse and multidimensional in nature. We
refer, for example, to the investments financed by the former CCCE and MEDIOCREDITO,
which IDA considered non-project investments but which had a decisive impact on
performance where project implementation was concerned.
75.    As for the priority given to institutional reform over procurement, we feel that the two
components should have been carried out concomitantly in view of their complementary role in
terms of attaining the project's objectives.
3. EVALUATION OF ONATRA's PERFORMANCE DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
76.   ONATRA acknowledges that there were, in addition to the exogenous factors that
impacted project results, some internal factors that also had a negative effect. These included,
in particular:
(a)   the commercial policy: a complete overhaul of the commercial strategy would have
enabled ONATRA to regain the market lost;
(b)   the persistent lack of security affecting installations and even the transport fleet;
(c)    physical contact with donors: lack of a sense of ownership among agencies in charge
of monitoring the projects, whereas frequent and direct contact with donors would have
undoubtedly helped to minimize the time it took to reach agreements and obtain
disbursements.
20



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FERST TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2027-ZR
PART III
STATISTICAL TABLES
21



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED IDA CREDITS
LoanJCredit Title               Purpose                Year of Approval          Status
First Transport Project    Rehabilitation of river transport   1971               Completed
CR 255-ZR (US $7.0         infrastructure and fleet.
million)              Institution building at
autonomous river agencies.
RaiL'River Transport      Rehabilitation of Matadi-           1975               Completed
Project          Kinshasa Railway. Procurement
CR 571 -ZR (US$26.0      of river transport equipments.
million)          Institution building at ONATRA
SNCZ Railways Project     Rehabilitation of Shaba Ilebo        1984               Completed
CR 902-ZR (US$20.0         Railway. Track Renewal
rmllion)            Equipment. Training and
institution building at SNCZ.
Second SNCZ Railway      Rehabilitation of Shaba-Ilebo         1984               Completed
Project              Railway. Track renewal
CR 1475-ZR (US $26.0       equipment. Training and
million)           institution buildirg at SNCZ.
Onatra Modernization    Improve operational efficiency         1982            Completed 1990
Project                  of ONATRA.
CR 1180-ZR
Navigation Improvement      Rehabilitate and improve            1987             Cancelled 1994
Project              management of the RVF
CR 1761-ZR
Matadi-Kinshasa Ports     Rehabilitate and modernize           1983            Completed (1990)
Rehabilitation Project    structures with inadequate
CR 1335-ZR            maintenance and adapt to
container traffic.
22



TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLES
Item -  .    -    _.._Date Planned                       Date Actual
Identification                   10/86                          10/86
Preparation                      N/A                           6/86
Preappraisal                    N/A                           6/20/87
Appraisal                       N/A                          2129/88
Negotiations                     N/A __                  7/8/88 and 10/11/88
Board Approval                   3/21/89                        5/30/89
Credit Signiaftur                  N/A                          6/30/89
Credit Effectivenes                 6/1/89                       10/25/89
Credit Closing                  12/31/95                   2/2/93 (cancelled)
TABLE 3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(IJS$ million)
Year &Qcarter Fnding      E-thtea                                      % Estimates
Jun-90                   24.0                  12.62               53%
Jun-91                   42.0                  23.53               56%
Jun-92                   57.2                  30.25               53%
Jun-93                   68.6                  32.76               48%
Jun-94                   73.5                cancelled
Jun-95                   75.0                cancelled
23



TABLE 4: PROJECT COMPONENTS
ONATRA
I Institutional reform
(i)       Decentralize and streamline activiLieS as outlined in ONATRA's 'projet d' Entreprise' of 1987:
(ii)      divesr loss making activities such as non-transport services (hospitals, schools. force accounts, police, agricultural farms)
which were supported by ONATRA,
(ii)      priv'aize shipyard operations, and charter barges to privates companies in selected river transport operations, facilitate
transfer of activities for which ONATRA is not well suited to the private sector, and,
(iV)      strengthen technical skills through technical assistance and a human resource development program (23 man-years of
consultant services for the latter).
2. Financial recovery
(i)       Reduce long-term debt and restructure capital by selling non-essential assets and by getting a capital infusion from the
GOZ, introduce cost tracking and control;
(ii)     improve financial management through delegation of day-to-day financial management to operating units and
establishing an appropriate accounting system at that level; improve management of consumables and store supplies;
(iii)    implement short-term financial recovery plan to reduce staffing levels and assist with the eauly retirement of 2000 workers in
1989;
(iv)      implement an Operational Action Plan to raise productivity on the VN. including revenue collection, and cost-
based tariffs; and,
(v)       clarify relationship, responsibilities and obligations of ONATRA and the GOZ through agreement on a Contrat
Programme.
3. Operational efficiency to be increased through rehabilitation of infrastructure, maintaining equipment, and faciliutaing cargo
traffic.
ONATRA was to
(i)       Introduce a management information system;
(ii)      enhance standards of performance monitoring;
(iii)     achieve better discipline, moral through use of performance contracts by region;
(iv)      containerize copper exports to reduce waste (loss), and transit time starting with a study; and,
(v)       rationalize rail and river operations (through better maintenance, provision of spare parts, private sector
participation in the shipyards and port of Kinshasa, simplification of documentation, improved organization of river
convoys between Kinshasa and Ilebo, for CFMK measures to reduce waiting time of wagons)
4. Physical investment would include:
*         Matadi Port: rehabilitation of two piers and quay side cranes; new maintenance shops; small craft dolphins; relaying of
railway tracks; cargo handling equipment; maintenance and shop equipment
*         Kinshasa Port: Repairs to Kinshasa quay; completion of storm drains; new maintenance shop rehabilitation of quay side
cranes; cargo handling equipment and parts
*         River Navigation and Shipyard: Procurement of new pushers and cargo and passenger barges works and equipment
at Ndolo Shipyard;
*         CFMK Railway: minor work of locomotive maintenance facilities, wagon conversion pits, locomotive shop
maintenance equipment; and track maintenance equipment;
*         Containerization of VN; acquisition of containers and setting organizational suructure
SNCZ
(i)      implement a short term financial recovery plan
(ii)      prepare a medium-term plan to decentralize to allow regions to have operational and financial autonomy and devolve
management responsibility for non-transport, or non essential activities to private sector under concession, sale, or contracts
with private management;
(iii)     elaborate and follow an operational action plan to improve movement of locomotives and wagons, reduce transport costs on the
VN, and decrease delays on the route between llebo and Shaba;
(iv)      adopt a commercial action plan to limit the dependence of the enterprise on Gecarnines traffic and diversifying the client base;
(v)       reduce staff by creating an incentive fund for the departure of 2000 staffs;
(vi)      sign a Contract Programme with the GOZ to provide a framework for the future mutual obligations and clarify
responsibilities, including providing autonomy to SNCZ to fix its own tariffs, and specifying compensation from the state to
SNCZ for services it provides of a public' nature:
(vii)    invesuncnts would include:
*         renewal of 303 km of the most critical sections of the VN;
*         renewal of 10 ballasting machines for track maintenance;
*         replacement of track maintenance tools; purchase of a crushing machine for ballast production;
*         purchase of 7 electric line locomotives and 5 diesel shunting locomotives;
*         procurement of power tools for locomotive workshops;
*         partial renewal of the signaling system, and;
*         upgrading of the information system.
24



TABLE 5: PROJECT FINANCING
(IN US1S MILLIONS)
SOURCE                  PLANNED             ACTUAL
Combined ONATRA/SNCZ
IDA Credit                           75.0              32.76
AfI)B                                91.6               41.4
Belgiumi                             24.1               5.4
CCCE                                 36.2               27.1
EEC                                  6.2                8.3
KfW                                  15.0               20.8
ONATRA                               15.2               0.9
SNCZ                                 16.8               na
TOTAL                                 280.1              137.8
1. ONATRA
IDA                                33.0               6-2
AFDF                               55.5            8.8 (21.6)
ADF                        -                           0
ONATRA (d!  s:o
Subtotal                             103.2               1195
2. SNCZ
IDA                                42.0            26.6(32.1)
AfDB                               36.6            32.6 (62.3)
KfW                                15.0            20.8 (38.)
EEC                                 6.2             8.3 (79)
Belgium                            24.1             5.4 (15.1)
CCCE.                              3612            27.06 (38.9)
SNCZ (dmetic)
Subtotal                              176.9              121.8
African Development Fund
2Figures in parenthesis represent amount comnmitted as of May 1992 according to ONATRA
25



TABLE 6A: ONATRA FINANCING (LOCAL AND IDA)
SUS '000
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local    Foreign TTotal - A|  Local    Foreign   Total - B       B/A
Civil Works                         2,360      5,354      7,714          0         0          0    0%
Matadi                            1,992     4,648      6.640          0          0          0
Kinshasa                           368        705      1,073          0          0          0
Port and Railway Equipment            652    12,256       7,167        872      3,617     4,576   63%
(14121)                         (3,704)
Matadi (Cargo hdlg., maintenance unit)                 5,741
Kmnshasa (cargo hdlg., maint.)       0      2,069      2,069       (808)   (3,113)   (3,921)  190%
CMFK                               320      1,460      1,780        (64)     (591)      (655)   37%
VN (Containers)                    332      2,986      3,318          0          0          0    0%
Consultants & Expert Services         975      6,375     7,350          28      1,341     1,133    19%
(8365)                          (1,105)
Human Resource Development            885      2,323      3,208          1      1,209      1,191   38%
(1165)                          (1,190)
Program for Early Retirement            0      1,500      1,500          0          0         0    0%
Unalocated                                                3,884                               0    0%
Total Project Costs                 4,872    27,807    30,822          901      6,168     7,068   23%
a/ kJlocated figures from Table 5.01, Staff Appraisal Report except for unallocated amount which is from Credit agreement.
bi AcruaJ foreign expenditures arefrom 1}RD disbursement while local costs as of August 1993 as well as an indication of expenditure
on subcomponents (in parenthesis) are from ONATRA's Rapport d'Achevemeru, August, 1993.
I SDR   SUS 1.3872 except for actual foreign expernditures which uses the exchange rate at the day of disbursment.
TABLE 6B: SNCZ FINANCING (IDA ONLY)
SUS '000
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local  IForeign   Total-A    Local   Foregn   Total  B           B/A
Civil Works, Track Rehab.             0       20,683    20,683        0        9,730      9,730      47%
Rails, Spare Parts & Maintenance,     0       11,874    11,874        0        14,283    14,283    120%
Rolling Stock_
Consultants & Expert Services                 5,396      5,396                 2,577      2,577      48%
Training Fellowships, Teaching                  0          0          0          0         0        NA
Materials
Program for Early Retirement          0        1,581     1,581                   0          0         0%
Unallocated                                              3,953
Total Project Costs                                      43,487                          26,590 1  61%
Note: I SDR = USS 1.3872 with the exception of Actual data which comes from IBRD disbursement and which carried
exchange rate of day disbursed. Data on local costs not available.
26



TABLE 7A: ONATRA PROJECT RESULTS
Component           Actual
1992: Status
Port of Matadi &    a. Not completed Dependent upon completion of engineering studies to be financed by the FAC but
Port of Kinshasa    financing unavailable.
a. Civil Works    b Partially purchased.
b. Equipment
CNMFK Railway       a. Equipment purchased but not installed because tools for installation were to be financed by the
a. Wagon Renewal   AfdB.
b. Rail renewal    b. 1032 wooden rails purchased and 681 installed (8/93).
(2875 wooden rails)
River Navigation    6 careo barges contracted and 2 procured.
(AfDB)
Containerization    Study completed with some delay but recommendations not implemented. Also, lower traffic volumes
from Gecamines and lower exports placed profitability into question3
Staff reduction     Fund to assist early retirees (US S I.5 million) never used & modalities for use never defined
Human Resource       *   Consultants hired but left in March 1992 because of turbulence
Management          *   Cadic Gombert was to perform census of employees, improve human resource planning, better
match employees to jobs, revise salary classification. They completed 53% of work (starting July
1990), but then left Zaire in Sept. 1991.
Technical Assistance  *   Terms of Reference for technical assistants to ONATRA's DG had to be revised following
ONATRAs reorganization. Never recruited.
*   Study on the potential for private contracting functions of the Port of Kinshasa completed by the
Port Autonome de Marseille Group but experts to implement plan not in place.
Opening Ports to    Private sector participation only for logs and some heavy packages
Private Traffic
Training             Personnel trained at ports to operate machinery
MIS                  Consultant (Laloux) put in place system which would allow for better management of stocks,
supplies, and created manual of use, to change administrative circuits consistent with
decentralization. Computers (14) purchased. Different organization, lack of materials (diskettes),
l____________  and computer breakdown (vith no cash to repair them) means that the system is not being used
3 According to ONATRA, containerization would only have made sense if 50% of Gecamines products were shipped
via the VN and if agriculutal productivity and exports were increasing.
27



TABLE 7B: ONATRA PROCUREMENT
1. Railway Equipment        2,800 adapters purchased to modernize 350 wagons                   Purchased but not
all installed
2. Port Equipment           4 log handling dozers                                              Purchased
5 Agricultural tractors                                           Not purchased
five 2.5-ton lifts and spare parts (lot 4)                        Purchased
37 4-ton lifts and spare parts                                    Purchased
8 15-ton forklifts                                                Not purchased
2  10-ton mobile cranes and spare parts                           Not purchased
10 trailers and spare parts                                       late partial
delivery (25%
spent)
3 spreaders and spare parts                                       Purchased
4 cranes and spare parts                                          Purchased
I mobile lubricating machine & I maintenance truck, tools and     Not Purchased
materials for maintenance
3. Containers               Containers                                                         Not purchased
4. Consultants and Experts    Training for Port Personnel                                      Partially
completed;
suspended after
Sept. 1991
TA to Ports (Port Autonome de Marseille)                          Not implemented
TA to Management                                                  Not implemented
5. Studies, Preparation,    Study of local containerization (Louis Berger)                     Study completed
Supervision
Preparation of bids for civil works (FAC)                         Not implemented
Supervision of civil works                                        Not implemented
World Bank Experts (Dujardin. Ben Adir)                           Mostly completed
Rehabilitation of stocks (Laloux)                                 Study completed
Study on restructuring shipyards (partex)                         Study completed
Training costs                                                    Paid for
6. Human Resource           By Cadic Gombert                                                   53% completed
Management                 I                                                                  I
TABLE 7C: BEX
SNCZ            Bid documents for mangement contract for northern rail line
Invitation for proposal for contracting out the Southern rail line (OCS)
Study on the termination of medical activities (OCS)
ONATRA          Bid documents for the salellease of barges to the private sector
Bid documents for the salellease of agricultural plantations
Bid documents for the suppression of the printing press and the garage
Study on the sale of the shipyard to the private sector
28



TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCIAL IMPACT
(i) ONATRA
Indicator
.________ _  1988  1989         1990        1991        1992          1995
Working Ratio              77.4%       68%          62%         62%         60%           60%
Appraisal
Working Ratio              100.84%     86%          111%        155%        108%
Actual
Operating Ratio            96 2%        90.3       88. 1%      87.0%        83.2%
Appraisal
Operating Ratio            96.17%     82.i3%        142%        211%        375%
Actual
Current Ratio                1.2        na           1.4         2.0         1.7          2.0
Apraisa24I
Current Ratio                1.2        na          0.82         0.3         0.21
Actual
Debt/Equity Ratio
Appraisal                  39                      50          51          53
Debt/Equity                                                                  na
Actual                    39%        44%          43%         67%     _      _     
(a,) SNCZ
Indicator
1988      1989         1990        19915       2992          1995
Working Ratio                 72.9      65.4%       60.5%        58Yo        57Ye          56%
Appraisal
95.3     72.0%       92.72%        NA          NA            NA
Working Ratio
Actual
Ratio of Operating Profit   -14.42      -11.89       -8.13
Appraisal
Ratio of Operating Profit    47.55      -3.68       -15.59       NA           NA           NA
Actual
Ratio of Autofncing           7.98      24.12        30.66
Appraisal
Ratio of Autofinancing Actual    8.3   -31.29      -190.67       NA          NA            NA
Quiick Ratio                   0         0.8          1.0         1.0         1.0
Appraisal
Quick Ratio                    0         .44         .25         NA           NA           NA
Actual                              I
Current Ratio                            0.9          1.4         2.0         20
Appraisal
Current Ratio                 NA         NA          NA          NA           NA           NA
Actual
4Defined here as the current assets divided by current liabilities.
After 1990 accurate and comparable fmancial accounts are not available given the sub-division of the agency into
several agencies. OCS represents 91% of SNCZ's operations and provides some indication of the financial
health of the company after 1990: In 1991 monthly labor costs equaled 57% of collections on sales, with the
remainder consumed by debt service and subsidies to the other subsidiaries. As of August 1992, current debt
had risen to USSI 11 million. Long- and medium-term debt had reached USS359 million or 54 months of
revenues.
29



TABLE 9: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1987    1989            1M 90              1991            1992            1990
INDICATORS                               Actual  Actual    Talr2et  Actual    Actual    Tarne    Actual
1,PORT OF MATADI
I. arro handlini! rates
I. I General Cargo
(tons,hatchSshiRt)                       109      III         150       109         109         170      121        200
1.2 Mixed Cargo
(tors.batch/shift)                       135      123        226        129         127         250      130        250
1 3 Trawlers
(tonshautchshift)                        131      132        200        150         72          208      72         220
1 4 Grain bulkcarrimrs
(tonsrshlp/day)                         1782     1753        1750      1828        1833        2250      1471       3000
15 Logs
(tons/ship/day)                         596       599        600       628         710          660      872        750
1.6 Containers
(TEU/gang/shift)                         35       25          45        47         41           51        55         60
. EquiDement Avalalblitv (%)
2.1 Cargo handling equipement             54       47          60        35          44          66       50          75
2.2 Quay cranes                           73       80          60        81          82          68       71          80
3. Staff
3.1 Staffstrength                        3569     3619        4134      3046        297S        4013     2682        3822
3.2 Productivity (tonaterMloyes/year)     390      424        440       436          348         476      300        535
IL PORT OF KlNSHASA:
. Careo handlhne rates
1. I Loading-general cargo
(tonrbarge/shift)                        44       80          60        80          68         66        80         75
1.2 Unloading-general cargo
(tons/barge/shift)
1.3 Mineral bulk cargo                    56       50          50        52          50         54        55         60
(tons/barge/shift)                       171      183         250       208         207        270       176        300
1.4 logs
(tons/barge/shift)                       109       199        150       228         277         160      220        175
1.5 Containers (TEU)
(Movemerts/shift/crane)                  23        48         90        72          69          90        55         90
Ecullpement Avaisbilitv (%)
2.1 Cargo handling equipemeant            54       74          60        71          71         66        78         75
2.2 Quay cranes                           73       90          60        86          87         6S        59         80
. Staff:
3.1 Staff strength                       1624     1330        2080      1033        1251        1997     1339        1868
3.2 Productivity
(tons/eniployeea,year)                  346.1    427.3        300       372         240        324       120        365
30



TABLE 9: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1987     1989             1990            1991           1992           1995
INDICATORS                             Actusal  Actual       Target Actual    Actul            Tafiet  Actual
11. C.F.M.KC
1. Locomotive Availability(%)            51.6     56.5        67.5      60         48.6      71.7       37        75.0
. Locomotive Utilization
('00 kms/available  Locoperyeau         110      111.0       i38      103         19        144      103.8       144
. Wagon Availability (%)                70.0      67.7       80.0    65.0         63.4      88.0       55        90.0
. Wagontumn-around (days)                16        15         10       16          25         8       16.5        7
. Staff(excludingconstructionstaff)     3812     3814        3510    3798         3829      3309      4031       3309
6. Productivity
C000 trsffic units/employees/year)      104       98         121      0OO         90         134     29.4        142
. Transit time for export
trafEc (KIN arrival to                 10.3      13.0       29.0      8.5        19.0       7.5       -          7.0
MTD unloading) (days)
IV. VQFE FLUVL4,LE
1. Transit time (downstream)
1.1 Movement Days)                      3.0       2.6        3.0      3.1         3.1        3.0      3.1        2.7
1.2 Haks en route (days)                4.0      4.1         3.5      2.4         4.0        3.0      5.0        2.3
. Halt at flebo (dayr)                    3.0      5.7         3.0      5.8         5.2       2.5       8.0        2.0
3. Tranit Tbne (Upstream)
3.1 Movement (days)                     5.0       6.3        5.0      6.3         6.0        5.0      4.3         4.7
3.2 Halt en route (days)                3.0       3.0        2.5      3.5         4.8        2.0      3.0         2.0
. Halt at Kinshasa (days)                5.0      5.5         4.0      9.6         5.3       4.0      19.0        3.0
. Turn-around time of tup (days)         23.0     25.2        21.0     30.7        28.3       19.5     32.8       16.7
6.No. of round trips per tog peryear     16.0      14.5       17.3     11.9        12.9       18.7      2.4        21.8
31



TABLE 9: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1987     1989              1990              1991            1992             1995
INDICATORS                              Actual  Actual        Tareet  Actual                    Tar.et   Actual
B. ZAIRE River Services
1. Transit Time (Downstream)
1.1 Movement (days)                      6.0      5.         6.0       5.4         6.8         6.0       8.5        6.0
1.2 Halts en route (days)               10.0      9.1         8.0       4.1         7.6         2.0       9          5.0
2 Halt at Kisangapi (days)               4.0       4.5         3.0       4.7         8.0         2.0       8          2.0
3 Transit Time (Upstream)
3.1 Moveteut (days)                      12.0     10.6        12.0      9.4         12.0        11.5      15         11.0
3.2 Halts en route (days)                5.0      6.5         S.0       8.9         8.3         4.0        9         4.0
4 Haft at Kinshasa (days)                15.0      12.5       14.0      16.1        18.0        14.0      14.0       14.0
Turn-around tinm  of tug (days)         52.0     49.0        48.0      48.6        60.S        44.5      61.4       42.0
No. of round-tips per tug per year      7.0       7.5         7.6       7.5         6.0         S2        1.3        8.7
. Fuel ConsumWtlon (lt/100 t I=n)
.Upstrean                                4.5       --         4.50             --               3.S2       --        3.36
.Downstresmn                             1.01                 1.01       --          -0 0.5                * -       0.72
3 Overab                                 1.96      2.2        1.96       2.2         2.0        1.65      2.1        1.44
D Staff
.Staff Strength                          5958     6141        5437      6082        5983        5116     3850        4670
2 Productivity                           117      83.5         13S      80.1          -          151     32.99        173
('OOOt.Wn/emnployeeVsyear)
32



TABLE 9: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1987     1989            1990             1991           1992           1995
INDICATORS                            Actual  Actual        Tar?et Actual        Actual    Target Actual
. S.N.C.Z
1. Locomotive availablity (%)
(a) Diesel                              78.7      27.5       83.0     35.3        27.3       85.0               85.0
(b) Electnc                            45.0      31         75.0     27.1        25.7       75.0               75.0
. Locomotlve udlizaton
(I0Am/avbalable/loco per
year)
(a) Electric                           76.0      88.5       95.0     77.8       59.34
(b) Diesel                             79.0                 95.0                  -.
. Wagon avslabillty                              2941                12,863      3,140
(a) Mineral wagons                               - -        77.0                 O- -         0                90.0
(b) General scrvice wagons                       --         82.0      --          --        85.0               9
. Wagon turn-around
(days) for local mineral               5.23      6.1        4.70      6.4        8.1        4.50               4.40
trafflc (concentrates)
Staff(excludlng                       21,893   20,680     19,981   20,562                  18.800             17,150
construction stal)
113.5
6. Productity                            84.5    105.6       102.8     82.4       58.2
('000 tfc units/employeeu/                                                                                     130.3
year)
7.Transfttlmeforezport    -             16.88    17.14       9.86     16.96        30        5.98
tralllc on VN (days) ex-                                                                                       5.20
rellnery to Dlebo
33



Part III                                                                        Table 10. Statuts of Covenants
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS OF CREDIT AGREEMENT AS OF OCTOBER 1992
ONATRA's Proi ect Agreement
Sections    Covenant Decription                                                              Dale        Status of Compliance                                  Comments
3.01          Borrower declares its cotsttoi1n1iett to the objectives of project as set in               Not complied with.        Major parts of projcct not being inioplensented in acicridance with
schedule 2 to this agreenient and shall causc ONATRA and SNCZ to carry                                               objectives:
out their pans A and B, and take all actions including the provision of funds.                                       * no subsidies accorded nor authorization to stop non-economic
transponl functions
* no progress on pnvatization of activities singled-out ito be turned out
to pnvate sector
* no financial sufficiency to ensure procurement of parts to miainitain
plants and equipment.
4.03 (a)     Contract prograrns to be signed between borrower, ONATRA  and SNCZ   Feb 1990               Complied with.            However, GOZ did not uphold agreement by compensatinig for social
respectively (and allowing setting of own turtffs)                                                                   services.
(b)    Annual exchange of view on the carry-out of such contract programs.           March each   Pardy complied with.       Exchange of view done with SNCZ, which also inmplemented
. __________  ___________________________________________________________________       _  year          __earperformance                        contracts   with   its main  directors.
5.01         ONATRA's or SNCZ's parts of credit to be suspended provided:                                Applies as:
(i) they  fail to perform  any obligations under their respective  Project  Since 1990   Inadcquate perforannce    Non-satisfactory financial and operatoital pertor[iianices (see Ilroject
Agreements                                                                                 in 1990 and since         Agreement Sections)
beginning of 1991
Sept. 1991    Riots and disturbances    Objectives of project are no longcr achievabic.
(ii) an extraordinary situation has ansen                                                  of September/October
1991
Apnl 1991                               Decisions taken unilaterally, without consultatiin with IDA, that
(iii) borrower has not taken any action for disesutblishment of ONATRA or                  April 1991 restructunng   moved away from Project's objectives to pass on activities to the
SNCZ.                                                                                      not viable.               pnvate sector.
2.01         ONATRA is conunitted to:
(a) the objectives of the Project as set in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement.            Not complied with.        The devolution of ncw transport activities to the p[tvaic
sector not pursued as originally intended.
(b) the Implementation Program set in schedule I of this Agreement                         Not complied with.        Delayed by one to two years.
2.02         ONATRA shall use proceeds of Credit for procurcment of goods. works and                     Complied with.
services in accordance with provision of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.nt
2.05         ONATRA  shall exchange views with IDA  on progress of project and its                       Party complied with.      Lack of infornation on Apftl 1991 decisioii by govcrnnent to split
performance and inforrn IDA  on any condition which interferes with the                                              ONATRA in two offices: OTP anid OCN
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit.                                                                       _
3.02         ONATRA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant and machinery, and                 PaFtly complied with.     Spare pans missing and procured with delays due to lack .it own
amake repairs as needed.                                                                                             furnds. Difficulty in h                 f lel. etc I
3.04         ONATRA shall fulfill its obligations under contract programs and not agree to               Partly complied with.     No amendnent nsade. but fitaiticial objective tot achieved. aiid mi
any amendment without IDA's prior exchange of views,                                                                 subsidiaries paid by govertmient for inoti-cconoimic services ieiidered
3.05          . .. SONATRAD ...                                                                                                    SONATRAD does not exAst anymorc
3 06          ONATRA  shall carry out its 1988-1992 training program  as agreed and                      Pardy complied with.      Program delayed Xaecause BRD was to be iiianaged by Alricaii
exchange views on progress.                                                                                          Development Fund which withdrcw financing.
3.07         ONATRA  shall carry out its joint operational action plan with SNCZ                         Not complied with.        Substantial delays encountered, due in pan lo lack of own funds, ankd
according to timetable agreed.                                                                                       poor management commitment.



Part III                                                                     Table 10. Status of Covenants
3.08         ONATRA shall continue to carry out its Project d'Entreprise 1988-1992:                  Not complied with.       Execution suspended as of May 1992. Rcorganization has involved
Updated Program  of December 1987 in consultation with IDA's, and                                                nainly functions restricruring with gradual dcccntralization, first of
exchange views on progress.                                                                                      CFMK in January 1990. and Voies Fluviales in January 1991.
Effective nanagerial responsibilities were not delcgated, howevcr, as
funids budgeted werc not released. The privatization of non transpori
activities not implemented and was limited to preparatory studies
3 0()        ONATRA sball carry out its Acitioi Plan for reorganizationi according to the            Partly complied with.    Delays of up to two years on the privatiztion 01ijectives enciuntired
tnietable set fornh it Schedule 3 to this Agrcemcnt.                                                             Ultimatcly abandoned.
Finatcilai
Covenants   Covenants Description                                                        Revised     Satais of Conrpliatace                               Comments
Sections                                                                                 Date                                      ._
3.10         (a) ONATRA shall continue to evaluate the carrying out of the objectives                Complied with.           Good documentation provided scmi-annually at timc of last
of the project on basis of performance indicators as set forth in Schedule                                      Supervision Missions, in June 1991
4 to this Agreement, and
Except concerning lack of infomiation on restrucnunng plans anKd
(b) ONATRA shall furnish starting on June 30. 1989, semi-annual reports                                         implenentation actions following April 1991 decision to split
on progress achieved.                                                    _.                                     ONATRA into two offices.
4.01         (a) ONATRA shall maintain records and accounts adequately                               (a) Complied with.       (a) Records are nsainiaincd but quality and viabiliry are inadequile
(b) they shall have them audited each fiscal year by independent auditors              (b) Complied with.        (b) 1989 exercisc reporl audited by Coopers & Lybrand, 19'0, 1991 by
Price Waterhouse
(c) they shall fumish six months after the end of the year (t) certified copies of     (c) Complied with.
financial statements and (it) reports of such audits.                                                           (c) Report received in June 1992
4.03          By end of June 1989, ONATRA shall put into place its new cost-based      1990          Complied with.           Implemented to 1990 by stcps.
tariff structure.
4.04         ONATRA shall limit annual investments to levels of the Public                           Mainly complied with,    ONATRA has signed an extension for $8 niillion with RIC (hIaly) to
Expenditures Program of the boreower and shall not undenake investments                with one exception.      its contracts for rail track renewal undcr Italian financing. Upon IDA's
above SI million without prior approval of IDA, and shall exchange views                                         objection. ONATRA agreed to move the work sitc to a pnoriry section
annually with IDA on its investments program.                                                                    near Matadi.
4.05         (a) ONATRA shall maintain a ratio of total working expenditure to total                 Not coniplied with.      Ratios on audited accounts wcre:
operating revenue not higher than:
-68% in 1989                                                              1990                                   58.8 for 1989
- 62% in 1990 and 1991                                                    1991                                   111 for 1990
- 60% thereafter.                                                         1993                                   98.4 for 1991
(b) ONATRA, before the end of October of each year, shaIl make a review to             Not complied with.
be forwarded to IDA, whether it would meet the requirements set above
(c) if same requirements were not to be made. ONATRA would have to take                Not complied with.
all necessary measures to meet them.
4.06         ONATRA sball earn an annual retum on capital and reserves of:                           Not complied with.       Target years were revised due to late project eftectivcncss date.
0%   by 1990                                                              1991
2.5% by 1991                                                              1992
4%   by 1995                                                              1995
4.07         ONATRA shall not incur any debt that would make the ratio of debt to equity             Pardy complied with.     No additional debt incurrcd. but ratto is no longer one to one as value
greater than one to one.                                                                                         of foreign debt escalated well above equity.
Ln



Part I1I                                                                  Table 10, Status oaCovenants
4.08         ONATRA shall auintain a quick ratio of current assets to current liabilities         Not complied with.      Ratio was 1:17 in 1990 on audited account, but only 0.72 if one Lakes
of not less than:                                                                                           into account SNCZ non ability to repay debt of 38,638 million of Zaire
to ONATRA.
1.4 in 1990                                                            1990
1.7 in 1991                                                            1992
2.0 in 1992 and after.                                                  I993
SNCZ's Project Agreement
Section                            Covenant Deeripton                               Revised         Status of                                   Comments
__________  .______________________ ______________________ __________ _  Date  CoFnmpliance      ._l
2.01        SNCZ is comnitted to:                                                                                    Physical part of project being implemented, but delays on sonic investments
(a) the objectives of the Project as set in Schedule 2 of the Credit                Partly complied     due to pull out of other cofunanciers (Belgium and AfDB). The devolution
Agreement                                                                           with.               of trnasport activities in Haut Zaire so the pnvate sector not pursued as
originally intended, studies on reorganization being delayed.
(b) the implementation Program set in Schedule I of this Agreement.                 Partly complied     Delayed by one year.
with.
2.02        SNCZ shall use proceeds of Credit for procurement of goods, works and                Complied with.
services in accordance with provision of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
2.05        SNCZ shall exchange views with IDA on progress of project and its                    Complied with.      SNCZ has prepared information on performance and deteriorating
perfonnance and inform IDA on any condition which interferes with the                                   financial results.
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit.                             ...                                                                                                 l
3.02        SNCZ shall at times opcrate and maintatn ius plant and machinery, and mtake          Pardy complied      Spare pars missing and procured with delays due to lack of own funds.
repairs as needed,                                                                  with.                           .        _l
3.04        SNCZ shall fulfill its obligations under contract programs and not agree to          Partly complied     No amendment made, but financial objcctivc not achieved, and no
any amendment without IDA's prior exchange of views.                                with.               subsidies paid by government for non-cconomic services rendered.
3.06        SNCZ shall carry out its 1988-1992 tnrining program as agreed and exchange           Not complied with.
views on progress.
3.07        SNCZ shall establish by June 30. 1989, cotmnecial action plan to increase            Complied with by   Implemnntation delayed due to late project effectiveness.
taffic befween llebo and Shaba.                                                     mid-1990.
3.08        SNCZ shall carry out its joint operational action plan with ONATRA                   Not complied with.  Substantial delays encountered, due in part to lack of own funds, and poor
according to tirmetable agreed.                                                                         management commitment.
3.09        SNCZ shall establish a decentralization plan by Apnl 1989 and implement              Pardy complied      Delay of one year. but not fully implcmented.
same by January 1. 1990.                                                            with,
3.10        SNCZ shall continue io evaluate the carrying out of the objective                    Complied with.      Good documentation provided semi-annually at tinme of last Supervision
of the project on basis of perfornance indicators as set forth in Schedule 3 to                         Mission in February 1991 and brief review in Kinshasa in May 1992.
this Agreement.
(A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0"



Part III                                                                   Table IO: Status of Covenants
3.11        SNCZ shall carry out an institutional reorganization study in 1990 based on           Not complied with   Much delays have accumulated. Review by cofinanciers in February 1991
results of study of uneconomic lInes.                                                                    gave recommendations that management by pnvate sector should br
introduced wherever possible.
3.12        SNCZ shall request the borrower by the end of May 1989 to cover the losses            Partly complied
incurred in non-profitable services required by the borrower or to authorize         with.               SNCZ's request made but govemment did not react to same.
their closure.
l1mctal
Covenant                            Covenants Decription                              Revised         Status of                                    Conmments
a Setioas                                                                              date         Compliance
4.01        (a) SNCZ shall maintain records and accounts adequately                              (a) Pardy complied   (a) Records are maintained but quality and viability are inadequate.
with.
(b) they shall have them audited each fiscal year by independent auditors                                (b) 1991 exercise report not received.
(b) Not complied
(c) they shall funsish six months after the end of the year (i) certified copies     with.               (c) Report not received in November 1991.
of financial statements and (ii) repons of such audits.                              (c) Not complied
with.
4.03        (a) SNCZ shall maintain a ratio of total working expenditure to total                 Not complied with.  Ratios were:
operating revenue not higher than:
-75%  in 1989                                                           1990                             - 63 % for 1988 (in audited accounts)
-70%  in 1990                                                           1991                             - 78% for 1989 (in audited accounts)
-65%  in 1991 and 1992                                                  1992                             - 96% for 1990 (estimated)
-57%  in 1993 and thereafter                                            1994
(b) SNCZ. before the end of October of each year. shall make a review to be          Parly complied
forwarded to IDA, whether it would meet the requirements set above                   with.
(c) if same requirements were not to be met. SNCZ would have to take all
necessary measures to meet them.                                                     Pardy complied
with.
SNCZ shall maintain a quick ratio of current assets to current liabilities of        Not complied with.
4.04         not less ttha:
0.8 in 1989 and 1990                                                    1990                             0.44 in 1989 (in audited accounts).
1.0 in 1991 and thereafter.                                             1992                             0.25 in 1990 (estimated)
4.05        SNCZ sbatl eam a positive annual retum on capital and reserves of _                   Not yet applicable,
from December 31, 1994.                                                              but will not
m comply.
4.06        SNCZ shall limit annual investments to levels of the Public Expenditures              Mainly complied
Progranm of the borTower and shall not undertakce investments above $1               with, with one
million without prior approval of IDA, and shall exchange views annually             exception.
with IDA on its investments program.



TABLE 11: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Fiscal Year     1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992  1993   1994  Total
Preparation     0.4   14.6  23.2   90.9                                               129.1
Appraisal                           49.4   5.1                                        54.5
Negotiations                                 38.8                                      38.8
Supervision                                  3.5   34.5  34.4  23.9   15.8            112.1
Project Completion                                                                  6      6
Report               _ 
TOTAL          0.4   14.6  23.2  140.3  47.4   34.5  34.4   23.9   15.8    6    340.5
B: MISSIONS
(Staff Weeks)
Preparation                                       57
Appraisal                                        20
Supervision                                       26
PCR (est)                                         0
Total                                          103
38



