Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2027 ZR
                     SNCZ Project
                       Agreement
          (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                        between
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          and
     SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS
                  Dated June 30, 1989
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2027 ZR
                SNCZ PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1989, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)
and the SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS
(SNCZ).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of
even date herewith between the Republic of Zaire (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 57,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SNCZ agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SNCZ (the SNCZ Subsidiary
Loan Agreement), a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to SNCZ on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SNCZ, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
                      Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                      ARTICLE II
               Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) SNCZ declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end,
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the
Association and SNCZ shall otherwise agree, SNCZ shall
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. SNCZ shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04. SNCZ shall duly perform all its
obligations under the SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNCZ
shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) SNCZ shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under SNCZ
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  SNCZ shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SNCZ of
its obligations under this Agreement and under SNCZ
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the performance of the
National Trading Company (SONATRAD) under its Convention
Page  3
Specifique with SNCZ.
     Section 2.06. As part of the information to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 2.03 of
this Agreement and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, SNCZ shall furnish semiannually to the
Association reports on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project.
                      ARTICLE III
           Management and Operations of SNCZ
     Section 3.01. SNCZ shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, economic and public utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. SNCZ shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other
property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial economic and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. SNCZ shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. (a) SNCZ shall fulfill its obligations
under its Contrat-Programme with the Borrower and shall
not agree to any amendment thereof without the prior
approval of the Association.
     (b)  SNCZ shall exchange views annually with the
Association on the carrying out of the Contrat-Programme.
     Section 3.05. SNCZ shall not agree to any
modification of its Convention Specifique with the
National Trading company (SONATRAD) without the prior
approval of the Association.
     Section 3.06. SNCZ shall carry out its Training
Program, as agreed among the Borrower, SNCZ and the
Association and shall exchange views from time to time
with the Association on the progress of the Program.
     Section 3,07, SNCZ shall establish by June 30, 1989
a commercial action plan designed to increase the volume
of traffic from Ilebo to Shaba in order to reduce to the
minimum the imbalance with traffic in the other
direction, taking into account the renewal of track under
the Project and the adoption of more effective commercial
policies.
     Section 3.08. SNCZ shall carry out its Joint
Operational Action Plan with ONATRA according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.09. SNCZ shall establish with the Borrower
a decentralization plan and shall, by April 1, 1989,
furnish such plan to the Association for its approval;
such plan, modified as necessary to take into account the
views of the Association, shall be put into effect by
SNCZ by January 1, 1990.
     Section 3.10. SNCZ shall continue to evaluate and
monitor the carrying out of Part B of the Project on the
Page  4
basis of the performance indicators set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement as well as the indicators utilized
for previous projects financed by the Association.
     Section 3.11. SNCZ shall carry out a study in 1990
of institutional reorganization based on the results of
the current study of uneconomic lines and, taking into
account the views of the Association, shall act on the
recommendations of the latter study taking into account
any comments of the Association thereon.
     Section 3.12. SNCZ shall request the Borrower by the
and of May 1989 to accord the means to cover losses
incurred in the operation of structurally non-profitable
services required by the Borrower to be continued by SNCZ
or for authorization to close down such services.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) SNCZ shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
     (b)  SNCZ shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year: (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so
               audited, and (B) the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such
               other information concerning said
               records, accounts and financial
               statements as well as the audit
               thereof, as the Association shall
               from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of
SNCZ Special Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditures, SNCZ shall:
          (i)  maintain in accordance with paragraph (a)
               of this Section records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Association has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  5
         (iii) enable the Association's
               representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts be
               included in the annual audits referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audits contain
               separate opinions by the said auditors as
               to whether the statements of expenditures
               submitted during the fiscal year together
               with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Among the information to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
SNCZ shall furnish to the Association:
          (i)  draft annual financial statements, not
               later than four months after the end of
               the year to which they relate; and
          (ii) audited proposed budgets, projected
               balance sheets, cash-flow forecasts
               together with forecasts for the years to
               follow, by November 30 of the year
               preceding the first year to which they
               relate.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SNCZ shall maintain a ratio of total
working expense to total operating revenue not higher
than 75% in 1989, 70% in 1990, 65% in 1991 and 1992 and
57% in 1993 and thereafter.
     (b)  Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years,
SNCZ shall, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall
furnish to the Association the results of such review
upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that SNCZ would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
SNCZ fiscal years covered by such review, SNCZ shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total working expense' means
               the sum of all expenses related to
               operations, including administration,
               adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, but excluding depre-
               ciation and interest and other charges on
               debt.
          (ii) The term "total operating revenue" means
               revenue from all sources related to
               operations.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SNCZ shall maintain a quick ratio of
current assets to current liabilities of not less than
0.8 in 1989 and 1990 and 1.0 thereafter.
Page  6
     (b)  Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years,
SNCZ shall, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Association the results of such review
upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that SNCZ would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
fiscal years covered by such review, the SNCZ shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirement.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current assets" means cash, all
               assets which could in the ordinary course
               of business be converted into cash within
               twelve months, including accounts
               receivable, marketable securities, and
               prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal
               year, but excluding inventories.
          (ii) The term "current liabilities" means all
               liabilities which will become due and
               payable or could under circumstances then
               existing be called for payment within
               twelve months, including accounts
               payable, customer advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, and dividends.
         (iii) The term "debt service requirements"
               means the aggregate amount of
               repayments (including sinking fund
               payments, if any) of, and interest
               and other charges on, debt.
          (iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section
               it shall be necessary to value, in terms
               of the currency of the Borrower, debt
               payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of
               the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
               which such other currency is, at the time
               of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
               the absence of such rate, on the basis of
               a rate of exchange acceptable to the
               Association.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SNCZ shall earn, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994,
a positive annual return on capital and reserves.
     (b)  Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years,
SNCZ shall, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Association the results of such review
upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that SNCZ would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SNCZ
fiscal years covered by such review, SNCZ shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without
Page  7
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return on capital and reserves
               shall be calculated by dividing SNCZ's
               net result for the fiscal year in
               question by the total of capital and
               reserves.
          (ii) The term "not result" means not surplus
               available for distribution.
     Section 4.06. SNCZ shall limit its annual
investments to the levels included in its budgets and in
the public expenditure program of the Borrower, shall not
commit itself to any single additional investment costing
more than $1,000,000 equivalent in any one year without
the prior approval of the Association and shall exchange
views annually with the Borrower and the Association on
its Investment Program and Financing Plan for 1988-1992,
as approved by the Association.
                       ARTICLE V
             Effective Date; Termination;
              Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of SNCZ thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit
               Agreement shall terminate in accordance
               with its terms; or
          (ii) the date twenty years after the date of
               this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify SNCZ of this event.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
               Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex, telefacsimile or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
Page  8
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
     Cable address:      Telex:         Facsimile:
          INDEVAS          440098 (ITT)   (202)477-6391
          Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA) or         8164 or
                            64145 (WUI)            8451
     For SNCZ:
          2, Place de la Gare
          B.P. 297, Lubumbashi
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:      Telex:    Facsimile:
               SNCZ             21627     424611
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SNCZ, or by
SNCZ on behalf of the Borrower under the Development
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
President-Delegue General or such other person or persons
as SNCZ shall designate in writing, and SNCZ shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
               SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS
               By /s/ Mushobekwa K. We Katana
                              Authorized Representative
                      SCHEDULE 1
                Implementation Program
¦Schedule 1 contains large tables. Please refer to
original document.
                      Schedule 2
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods And works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Similar and related items, and items which can be
furnished by a single supplier, shall be grouped in the
largest practicable lots for the purpose of inviting
bids.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Zaire may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, SNCZ may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Spare parts available only from a limited number of
suppliers, and goods which, after grouping an required
under paragraph A.2 of this Schedule, are estimated to
cost less than $100,000, may be procured on the basis of
international and local shopping, in accordance with
paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines; provided, however, that
the aggregate value of goods so procured shall not,
without the prior approval of the Association, exceed the
equivalent $2,500,000.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the SNCZ Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of such Special Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph 1, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the SNCZ Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  10
3.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist SNCZ in carrying out the Project,
SNCZ shall employ such consultants and other experts,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
as shall be agreed with the Association. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                Performance Indicators
                              1987 1990 1992 1995
1.   Locomotive availability (%)
     (a)  Electric            78.7 83.0 85.0 85.0
     (b)  Diesel              45.0 75.0 75.0 75.0
2.   Locomotive utilization
     (103 kms/available
     loco. per year)
     (a)  Electric            76.0 85.0 89.0 95.0
     (b)  Diesel              79.0 85.0 89.0 95.0
3.   Wagon availability (%)
     (a)  Mineral wagons      69.1 77.0 88.0 90.0
     (b)  General service     69.1 82.0 85.0 90.0
          wagons
4.   Wagon turn-around
     (days) for local
     mineral traffic
     (concentrates)           5.23 4.70 4.50 4.40
5.   Staff (excluding
     construction staff)    21,893 19,981 18,800 17,150
6.   Productivity
     ('000 tfc units/
     employee/year)           84,5  102,8  113,5  130,3
7.   Transit time for
     export traffic on
     the Voie Nationale
     (days) ex-refinery
     to Ilebo                16.88   9.86   5.98   5.20
