Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2027 ZR
             Development Credit Agreement
          (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                        between
                   REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  Dated June 30, 1989
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2027 ZR
             DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1989, between the REPUBLIC
OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower's Office National des Transports (ONATRA) and
its Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONATRA
and SNCZ the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to receive additional
financing for the Project from the Kingdom of Belgium in
the amount of BFr. 881,340,000, the French Republic's
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique in the amount
of FFr 215,930,000, the Federal Republic of Germany's
Page  2
Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau in the amount of DM
26,175,000, the European Economic Community in the amount
of ECU 5,256,000 and the African Development Bank in an
amount equivalent to $91,600,000; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date
herewith between the Association, on the one hand, and
ONATRA and SNCZ, respectively, on the other;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions-Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ONATRA Project Agreement" and "SNCZ Project
Agreement" mean the respective agreements between the
Association and ONATRA and the Association and SNCZ, both
of even date herewith, as either may be amended from time
to time, and such terms include all schedules and
agreements supplemental to each of the Project
Agreements; and
     (b)  "ONATRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "SNCZ
Subsidiary Loan Agreement" mean the respective agreements
entered into between the Borrower, and ONATRA and SNCZ,
respectively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as either may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements; and
     (c)  "ONATRA Special Account" and "SNCZ Special
Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE II
                      The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty seven
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 57,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars two special
Page  3
accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, one to be operated on
behalf of the Borrower by ONATRA (the ONATRA Special
Account) and the other to be operated on behalf of the
Borrower by SNCZ (the SNCZ Special Account), pursuant to
Section 2.09 below. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1995 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a
date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set as of the June
30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1
in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1999 and
ending March 1, 2029. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 2009 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Page  4
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. ONATRA and SNCZ, in respect of Parts
A and B of the Project, respectively, are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause ONATRA and SNCZ to carry out Parts A and B thereof,
respectively, and to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreements all the other
obligations of ONATRA and SNCZ therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ONATRA and
SNCZ to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend to ONATRA the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to and withdrawn under
Categories I through 5 in the table set forth in
paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and to SNCZ
the amount allocated to and withdrawn under Categories 6
through 10 in such table, under subsidiary loan
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and
ONATRA (the ONATRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and SNCZ
(the SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement), each under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include interest at the rate
of 7.65% per annum, a term of 20 years including 5 years'
grace and the assumption of the exchange risk by ONATRA
and SNCZ.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the ONATRA and SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
those of the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive either Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
Page  5
provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreements.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried
out by ONATRA and SNCZ, respectively, pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreements.
                      ARTICLE IV
             Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments
out of a Special Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in
               accordance with sound accounting
               practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures be retained until at least
               one year after the Association has
               received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Credit Account or payment out of a
               Special Account was made; and
         (iii) enable the Association's
               representatives to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and
               those for the Special Accounts for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year, the reports of such audits by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested, including separate
               opinions by said auditors as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with
               the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
Page  6
         (iii) furnish to the Association such
               other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audits
               thereof as the Association shall
               from time to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take such steps as
shall be necessary on its part to ensure that ONATRA
comply with the provisions of Section 3.01 and Sections
4.03 through 4.08 of the ONATRA Project Agreement and to
ensure that SNCZ comply with Sections 3.01 and 3.12, and
Sections 4.03 through 4.06 of the SNCZ Project Agreement.
     Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into
contratsprogrammes with ONATRA and SNCZ which will
include provisions authorizing ONATRA and SNCZ to set
their own rates, and shall not, without having first
exchanged views with the Association, agree to any
amendment of such contrats-programmes.
     (b)  The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views annually on the carrying out of such contrats-
programmes.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not permit the
specific conventions between ONATRA and SNCZ and the
Societe Nationale de Trading (SONATRAD) to be modified
without the prior approval of the Association.
                       ARTICLE V
              Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  ONATRA or SNCZ shall have failed to perform any
of their obligations under the ONATRA Project Agreement
or the SNCZ Project Agreement, respectively.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ONATRA or SNCZ will be able to
perform their obligations under such Project Agreements.
     (c)  The Borrower shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of ONATRA or SNCZ or
for the suspension of the operations of either of them.
     (d)  Any agreement under which the financial
assistance to the Project described in paragraph (C) of
the preamble to this Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by June 31, 1990, or such later date as
the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of ONATRA and SNCZ
under the Project Agreements.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  The right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower, ONATRA
                    or SNCZ for the financing of the
Page  7
                    Project shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in part, pursuant to the terms of
                    the agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower, ONATRA or SNCZ to perform
                    any of their obligations under any
                    such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower, ONATRA or
                    SNCZ from other sources on terms and
                    conditions consistent with the
                    obligations of the Borrower, ONATRA
                    and SNCZ under this Agreement and
                    the Project Agreements.
     (f)  the contrat-programme between the Borrower, on
the one hand, and ONATRA or SNCZ, on the other, has been
modified in any manner which, in the reasonable opinion
of the Association, may threaten the proper carrying out
of the Project or the financial condition of ONATRA or
SNCZ.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) or
paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; or
     (c)  any event specified in subparagraph (i)(B) of
paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                      ARTICLE VI
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the ONATRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ONATRA and SNCZ, respectively;
     (b)  the agreements providing for additional
financing for Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project by the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau and the African
Development Bank have been signed; and
     (c)  Contrats-Programmes satisfactory to the
Association between the Borrower, and ONATRA and SNCZ,
Page  8
respectively, have been entered into by such parties and
have become effective; and
     (d)  all action required on the part of the Borrower
to authorize the restructuring of ONATRA's capital and
debt has been taken.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the ONATRA Project Agreement and the SNCZ Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by ONATRA and
SNCZ, respectively, and are legally binding upon ONATRA and SNCZ
in accordance with their terms; and
     (b)  that the ONATRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
the SNCZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ONATRA and
SNCZ, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower, ONATRA and SNCZ in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for
the purposes of section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                      ARTICLE VII
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower
responsible for finance is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                Telex:
               DENFIN                   21161 KIN GOMBE
               Kinshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
Page  9
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
               By /s/ Mushobekwa K. Wa Katana
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(ONATRA)
(1) Civil works         4,960,000       80%
(2) Ports and          10,180,000       100% of foreign
    railway equipment;                  expenditures, and
    containerization                    80% of local
                                        expenditures
(3) Consultants'        6,030,000       100% of foreign
    and experts'                        expenditures and
    services                            80% of local
                                        expenditures
(4) Human resources       840,000       100%
    development
(5) Early retire-       1,140,000       50%
    ment program
Part B of the Project
(SNCZ)
(6) Civil works,       14,910,000       100%
    track rehabili-
    tation, under
    contracts
(7) Rails; spare parts  8,560,000       100% of foreign
Page  10
    for rolling stock;                  expenditures,
    equipment and                       80% of local
    tools for main-                     expenditures
    tanance workshops                   (ex-factory
    price) and 75% of
    local expendi-
    tures for other
    domestic
    purchases
(8) Consultants'        3,890,000       100% of foreign
    and experts'                        expenditures and
    services;                           80% of local
    studies                             expenditures
(9) Training,                           100%
   fellowships,
   teaching
   materials
(10) Early retire-      1,140,000       50%
     ment program
Parts A and B of the Project
(11) Unallocated        5,650,000
   TOTAL               57,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
                      SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower in improving the efficiency of the transport
sector, especially operations along the Voie Nationale,
through the redefinition of the respective roles of
ONATRA, SNCZ and the Borrower in such sector, carrying
out institutional reforms for such purpose and carrying
out necessary physical rehabilitation.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:   ONATRA
1.   Port of Matadi:
          (i)  Rehabilitation of Piers 3 and 4 of a log
               storage area; minor repairs and rendering
               of Piers 1 and 2;
          (ii) Establishment of a new maintenance shop
               at the downstream end of the port,
Page  11
               including facilities for the repair of
               heavy engines; rehabilitation of
               warehouse space for other maintenance
               operations;
         (iii) Construction of three new breasting
               dolphins;
          (iv) Completion of drinking water supply to
               Piers 8, 9, and 10; improvements to the
               fire-protection system, including the
               installation of pumps, and emergency
               electricity supply system and the
               isolation of dangerous cargo;
          (v)  Relaying of about 3,000 meters of railway
               tracks;
          (vi) Rehabilitation of mechanical components
               of cranes, as follows: 12 3/6 ton, 2 5/10
               ton and 3 long-reach 3/6 ton;
         (vii) Acquisition of additional, and
               rehabilitation of existing, cargo-
               handling equipment; acquisition of a
               mobile lubrication unit, a
               maintenance truck and maintenance
               equipment and tools.
2.   Port of Kinshasa:
          (i)  Repair of the superstructure and
               pavement, and storm water collection
               trenches, at the Quai Kisangani and
               construction of storm drains throughout
               the port, including the new Ouai sur
               pieux;
          (ii) Installation of a new maintenance shop
               for railmounted cranes and heavy
               equipment, including sections for light
               and heavy engine repairs, electric
               motors, plates and a spare parts
               warehouse;
         (iii) Rehabilitation of cranes, including
               4 3/6 ton, 2 2.5/5 ton, 1 10 ton and
               1 20 ton; and
          (iv) Acquisition of new and rehabilitation of
               existing cargo-handling equipment.
3.   River navigation:
     (a)  acquisition of six cargo barges and six
passenger barges; and
     (b)  acquisition of two 950 hp pushers and one 450
hp pushers.
4.   Shipyards:
     (a)  repairs to civil works to cover arrears of
maintenance;
     (b)  workshop and handling equipment for replacement and
modernization; and
     (c)  rehabilitation of cranes and boat slipway
carriages.
5.   Chemin de Fer Matadi-Kinshasa (CFMK):
Page  12
     (a)  minor civil works at Mbanza-Ngungu locomotive
maintenance workshop and Limete locomotive depot;
     (b)  acquisition of maintenance equipment for
Mbanza-Ngungu workshop and Limete depot;
     (c)  modernization of 350 wagons by the replacement
of plain bearings with roller bearings; and
     (d)  acquisition of a track recording car,
forklifts, road vehicles and mobile cranes.
6.   Containerization of the Voie Nationale:
     Acquisition of containers and setting up of
appropriate organizational structures for the
containerized movement of export products along the Voie
Nationale.
7.   Information Resources:
     Development of an Information Resources Master Plan,
including the necessary hardware and software.
8.   Telecommunications:
     Provision of a modern telephone system for external
and internal communications between the various
departments of ONATRA.
9.   Improved Management:
     General, operations, commercial, maintenance,
inventory, human resources and information, with the
assistance of consultants and experts.
10.  Carrying out of financial, accounting and
containerization studies.
11.  Carrying out studies on job classification and
salary structure and on procedures for personnel
management; establishment of manpower planning and
professional qualifications units;
12.  Carrying out a program of training of personnel,
including the training of workers in basic trades and of
managers and Supervisors in management, organization and
related skills, the latter including fellowships abroad
for about 140 staff in management and operations; and
13.  Carrying out a program of human resources
management, including early retirements, in order to
reach a staffing ceiling of 16,000 by the end of 1989.
Part B:   SNCZ
1.   Acquisition and replacement of rails, sleepers and
fastenings on 303 kms of track for the Voie Nationale.
2.   Acquisition of 120 switches and replacement of worn-out
units.
3.   Execution of the track renewal work on the 303 kms,
partly by contract and partly by force account, with work
supervision by consultants.
4.   Acquisition of seven main line electric locomotives
and six diesel shunting locomotives.
5.   Acquisition of spares and carrying out the
rehabilitation program and preventive maintenance
Page  13
overhauls of locomotives.
6.   Acquisition of spares and carrying out heavy
overhauls and maintenance in the wagon overhaul program.
7.   Acquisition of track maintenance machines and
equipment for replacement and modernization.
8.   Acquisition of one set of mobile quarry equipment to
augment existing ballast production capacity.
9.   Provision of a modernized telecommunications system
for the railway.
10.  Information resources:
     Provision of the hardware and software needed for
establishing a modern management information system.
11.  Improved management:
     General, operations, maintenance, inventory, human
resources and information, with the assistance of
consultants and experts.
12.  Studies:
     Carrying out of an institutional reorganization
study, and other short-term studies associated with
improvement of operational efficiency and productivity.
13.  Planning:
     Strengthening of planning and management-control
services.
14.  Carrying out studies on job classification and
salary structure and on procedures for personnel
management; establishment of manpower planning and
professional qualifications units;
15.  Carrying out a program of training of personnel,
including the training of workers in basic trades and of
managers and supervisors in management, organization and
related skills, the latter including fellowships abroad
for about 120 staff in management.
16.  Carrying out a program of human resources
management, including early retirements, in order to
reach a staffing ceiling of 20,000 by the end of 1989.
                       *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                   Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in
the case of the ONATRA Special Account for Part A of the
Project, Categories 1 through 5, and; (ii) in the case of
the SNCZ Special Account for Part B of the Project,
Categories 6 through 10, as set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
Page  14
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means, an
amount equivalent to 900,000 dollars to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into each of the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of requests by ONATRA or the SNCZ,
acting on behalf of the Borrower, for deposits which add
up to the amount of the Authorized Allocation, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Accounts such amount or amounts as shall have been so
requested.
     (b)  ONATRA and SNCZ, acting on behalf of the
Borrower, shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals
as the Association shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the appropriate Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a
Special Account the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of any request for
replenishment, or.at the request of the Association, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule, no further deposit into a Special
Account shall be made by the Association when either of
the following situations first &risen:
          (i)  the Association shall have determined
               that all further withdrawals should be
               made directly from the Credit Account in
               accordance with the provisions of Article
               V of the General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the
               Credit allocated to the eligible
               Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment entered
               into by the Association pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions,
               shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  15
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower and ONATRA or SNCZ, as the case may be. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the appro-
priate Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association deposit into such Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into such Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in a Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit
Account.
