0Iocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
QC? f3oC-yfŽK
RePor So P-3934-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 4.7 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE CFENTRAL PkLANNING ORGALNIZATTON
Februarv 6, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and maw be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREL1CY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YRI)
Calendar vear 1983                      November 1984
91 =  YRls 4.50                       t1  =  YRIs 5.90
YRI 1 =  $0.22                         YRI 1 =  g0.17
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO         Central Planning Organization
ECWA        Economic Commission on Western Asia
FFYP        First Five-Year Plan
GDDBCI      General Department of Data Bank and Central Information
GDPL        General Department of Projects and Loans
GDPR        General Department of Planning and Research
GDTCC       General Department of Technical Cooperation and Conferences
KAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NOF         Ministry of Finance
NIPA        National Institute of Public Administration
SFYP        Second Five-Year Plan
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA       United Nations Family Planning Agency
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic



FOX OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower;             Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount;               Special Drawing Rights 4.7 million (approximately USS4.7
million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project Description;  The proposed project, complementing propos'' but sepa-
rate assistance from the Kuwait Fund, vould strengthen
the capabilities of the Central P!anning Orzanization
(CPO) in national economic planning and public invest-
ment programming, in project evaluation and monitoring
and in developing and maintaining a national data bank.
More specifically, it would: (a) provide on-the-job and
overseas training for selected staff in key General
Departments of CPO; (b) ensure greater coordination and
complementarity between the General Departments, and
between the CPO and other ministries/agencies; (c)
introduce improved procedures in economic planning and
investment programming, project processing and cost
control, and in reviewing contract documentation,
management of technical assistance as well as improved
procurement practices; and (d) ensure a well-managed
and organized central data processing capability in
TAR. The project would finance about 13 staff-years or
specialists' services and about 27 staff-years of over-
seas fellowship training; English language training,
mainly in-country, for about 16 CPO staff; and office
and data processing equipment.
Benefits:             The major benefit accruing from tiap project would be an
improved local capability for economic planning, proj-
ect and plan monitoring, management of technical assis-
tance and data processing. A strengthened CPO would be
in a position to play a more dynamic role in coordi-
nating the efforts of technical ministries in sectoral
and investment planning and in monitoring plan and
project implementation in a timely and effective manner.
The expansion of a central data processing capability
under the project would strengthen the statistical
underpinning for economic planning and increase the
operational effectiveness of the CPO and other agen-
cies, to be served by the central facility.
I Thb dowonot has a tstriced distibuion and may be used by eapints only in the performacC Of
tbei off=il dutims Its contnts may not othenwiSe be disclosed withcut World Bank authoizabon..



- ii -
Risksz                The risks to the project are those normally arising for
a project of this nature, which depends for its success
on the involvement and effective training of a quali-
fied national staff. The risks would be minimized
through measures agreed with and being taken by the
Government to assign suitably qualified nationals to
work with the expatriate specialists and to ensure that
the training of nationals will receive priority during
project execution.
Estimated Project Cost 1/
Local    Foreign      Total
-    Us$ million
I. Expert Services             0.30       1.27        1.57
II. Staff Training              0.25      0.78         1.03
III. Equipment                   0.17       1.58        1.75
IV. Support Services            0.20        -          0.20
BASE ODST 2/                        0.92       3.63        4.55
Physical contingetcies              0.05       0.18        0.23
Price contingencies                 0.12       0.48        0.60
Subtotal                   0.17      0.66         0.83
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  1.09       4.29        5.38
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
US$ ti I lion-
IDA          0.41      4.29        4.70
Government   0.68        -         0.68
Total        1.09      4.29        5.38
1/ The cost estimates exclude taxes and duties from which the
project would be exempt.
2/ Using January 1985 prices.



- iii 
Estimated Disbursement;
IDA Fiscal Year          1986   1987   1988   1989
s Mlion-
Annual          1.90    1.20   1.40   0.20
Cumulative     1.90    3.10   4.50   4.70
Estimated Completion Date; June 30, 1989
Rate of Return; Not Applicable
Appraisal Repo-t: None



INTERl ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE CENTRAL PLANNING ORGANIZATION
1.       I submit the following report and recoummendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 4.7 million (approximately US$4.7 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a pr-oject of technical assistance-to the
Central Planning Organization (CPO).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.       A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on
medium-term policy which reviews the public investment progran has been
discussed with the Government, and will be distributed to the Executive
Directors shortly. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The repub-
lican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution succeeded
in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of
a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of public institu-
tions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have provided the
basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors. Under the
Three-Year Development Program (1973174-76/77) and the First Five-Year Plan
(1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and social
infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started,-albeit on a small scale.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion on an annual basis between 1977 and 1983. Largely as a
result of these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased
significantly over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1983
(World Bank Atlas methodology). Although there are no reliable data on
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-3926-YAR),
dated January 22, 1985, for the Second Industrial Development credit
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on February 12,
1985.



2-
income distribution, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from
recent growth have been widely distributed. Strong familv ties ensure that
many people benefit from the increase in incomes.
Major Development Issues
5.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1976/77-
80/81) has been satisfactory. GDP grew at around 6 percent per annum in real
terms. Investment effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP.
These achievements, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact
that YAR continues to be one of the world's least developed countries. Few
mineral deposits have been discovered so far. 1/ YAR's commodity exports are
negligible, reflecting the country's limited resources and the under-
developed state of its economy. Productivity levels are still extremely low,
especially in agriculture which accounts for about 70 percent of the labor
force. Agriculture's development has been constrained by the scarcity of
agricultural land and water and the high cost of production.
6.       Water related issues are among the most serious in the medium- and
long-run. Despite their scarcity, water resources are being depleted rapidly
around cities and towns. A number of initiatives are, therefore, called for
to address these problems: (i) establishing a comprehensive water resources
data base; (ii) improving coordination among the various agencies operating
in the water sector; (ii) introducing legislation to manage water use, and
(iv) strengthening cost recovery policies. At the request of the Government,
IDA is planning a detailed assessment of the sector to strengthen the water
management policy and provide the required technical assistance.
7.       Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be dorn. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and
increasingly complex development program. Health indicators depict serious
problems that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts
and resources to improve the situation. The rapid population growth
(estimated at about 3.0 percent per annum) also suggests that, despite
cultural constraints, the Government should start analyzing recent
demographic trends to reach a better understanding of the consequences of
this high growth rate in order to develop an appropriate policy.
8.       YAR's physical infrastructure remains underdeveloped despite the
fact that it has received the lion's share of public investment under the
First and Second Five-Year Plans. Thus, although the length of the main road
network has tripled over the last decade, many areas are still without ade-
quate road connections. This is understandable in a country with a very
1/ Oil has been recently discovered in YAR, but the extent of the discovery
is not known yet.



-3-
rugged terrain and scattered population and where the first paved road
connecting the main harbor to the capital city was completed only about two
decades ago.
9.       The budget deficit has emerged as a major concern in recent years.
Between 1978 and 1982, Government expenditures have increased at a pace
double that of revenues. By 1982, revenues represented only about 40 percent
of expenditures and the budget deficit increased to 33 percent of GD?. At
the s9at  time, the share of the budget deficit financed by external loans
dropped from an average 44 percent during 1977-81 to 16 percent in 1982,
which compelled the Government to increase its borrowings from the banking
system (mainly the Central Bank). As a result, the money supply grew rapidly
during the recent years, and by more than 25 percent in 1982. Despite this
rapid growth, inflation hardly exceeded 6 percent since the growth of monev
supply was accompanied by a continuous increase in imports and a decline in
foreign reserves, from 16 months of imports o_ goods and services in 1977/78
to 3.5 months by end 1982.
10.      In 1983, the Government succeeded in reversing the deteriorating
macrofinancial trend despite ad.srsp exogenous factors; e.g., the earthquake
that caused substantial damage in the Dhanar area in December 1982, a severe
drought and a large drop in official grants. The balance of payments deficit
declined by 40 percent in 1983 mainly as a result of reduction in imports.
The Government adopted a more flexible approach to its exchange rate policy
and de-aluated the Yemeni rial four times between October 1983 and August
1984, by about 25 percent in total. The budget deficit decreased by 9
percent over 1982 as a result of the Government's effort to increase tax
revenues and to bring its expenditures under control. Current expenditures
levelled off and capital expenditures were down by 12 percent in line with
the recommendations of the Bank's report on the public investment program,
which was discussed with the Government and broadly agreed upon.
11.      However, with the budget deficit still representing 28 percent of
GDP and the money supply growing by 28 percent in 1983, the financial
situation remains serious and it would be premature to discontinue the
austerity effort at this time. The Government has no intention to do so, as
reflected by the 1984 budget which contains a 22 percent decrease in capital
expenditures while recurrent expenditures are expected to stay at their 1983
level. Similarly, the draft 1985 budget foresees that current expenditures
will stay at their 1984 level except for small increases due to the
adjustments in the exchange rate, while further reductions of capital
expenditures are programmed.
Government Objectives
12.      Since the early Iq70s, the country has been trying to develop human
resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivitv of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Most of the FirsL Plan's targets which were in line with these



- 4 -
objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector where output of
some traditional crops has declined and overall growth fell considerably
below targeted levels. The primary reason for this appears to have been the
abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas where income opportunities could not
compete with the opportunities of migratinn. The production of qat (a mild
stimulant) has been on the increase and has competed for agricultural land.
13.      The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) l/ has a 7 percent GDP growth
target calling for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices)
over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a
continued broad-fronted strategy with an emphasis on physical infrastructure,
agriculture and manpower development.  The plan's financing envisioned heavy
dependence on external sources with around 70 percent of investment expected
to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign private
investment. However, since this expected level of. foreign finance has not
been forthcoming and because of the extremely tight budgetary situation that
has developed recently, the Government has been revising its investment
program with IDA's assistance (para. 10).
Capital Flows and External Debt
14.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, in-
cluding grants, came to around $3.2 billion by the end of 1983. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.
15.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
16.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1983 was estimated at $2,356 million, of which $1,568 million
was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $163.6 million or about 10 percent
of the total disbursed and outstanding debt reported. The terms of official
loan assistance have been very favorable.  Loans from the USSR and the
People's Republic of China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western
1/ The Yemeni fiscal year was changed to coincide with the Gregorian calendar
year as of 1982.



- 5 -
European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2
percent. Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4
percent. Loan maturities range from 5 to 50 years, with an average of 20
years.
17.      However, in 1983 commitments dropped sharply by about 77 percent
overall and by about 90 percent for bilateral sources. This drop is partly
related to the depressed oil market and the Iran-Iraq war, since commitments
from oil surplus countries and multilateral institutions related to them
declined from an average of $150 million per year over 1977-82 to $44 million
in 1983.
18.      Debt service amounted to $42.3 million in 1983, hardly more than 3
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances
and private transfers). However, the debt service is projected to increase
substantially over 1985-90, and its budgetary burden could become difficult
to bear. These developments indicate that YAR would have to rely
increasingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
18.      This credit would be the forty-first to YAR, 2/ bringing total IDA
commitments to ¢400.3 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefoldz (a) to develop the basic institu-
tions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for
development; (b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive
sector, agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA
has extended twelve credits (t128.4 million) for agriculture, fisheries and
rural development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; six
credits (W61.0 million) for education and training; three credits 2/ for
industry ($22.0 million); two credits for petroleum and 'eothermal promotion
and exploration ($15 million); and a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and
expand the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the
country's health care system. The International Finance Corporation (IFC)
has made three investments in YAR: (i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance
a dairy and juice project; (ii) $4 million in FY84 for a dry cell battery
project, and (iii) $4.5 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee
project. Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored.
Annex II contains a sulrmary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1984. The attached map (number IBRD 15174R5) illustrates
the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
1I/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-3926-YAR), dated January 22, 1985, for the Second Industrial
Development Credit scheduled for consideration by the Executive
Directors on February 12, 1985.
2/ Includes the Second Industrial Development credit of $8.0 million.



-6-
19.      A major constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of professional,
skilled and semi-skilled manpower, and the insufficient experience and weak-
ness of its institutions. World Bank strategy has emphasized strengthening
institutions and manpower capabilities through increased training of local
staff and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing
for education. Thus all IDA-assisted projects in YAR contain substantial
institution-building components. Two particularly important examplas of the
World Bank's support have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
20.      YAR's disbursement performance has been affected by a number of
implementation problems, although it still compares favorably to the EMENA
region's average. Among the recurrent problems that are common to most
countries at YAR's stage of development are; delays in recruitment of
consultants, delays in award of contracts and resolution of conflicts with
contractors, and finalizing cofinancing arrangements. In addition, other
serious project-specific problems have also been affecting the implementation
of two projects; fisheries and Ibb and Dhamar water supply; these problems
have been discussed with the Government and corrective action is being taken
to resolve them. The Government and IDA have agreed to hold country imple-
mentation reviews twice a year to monitor the recurrent implementation
problems more closely and to address them promptly.
21.      Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the energy field, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and by meeting technical assistance needs. Two additional projects
have already been appraisedz (i) an agricultural development project in the
undeveloped Wadi Al Jawf region and (ii) a project to provide technical and
management assistance to the state agency in charge of mineral and oil
resources (YOMINCO). A power distribution, an agricultural development, an
education and a highways project are under preparation and future operations
are expected in the areas of energy, transport, and possibly in the water
supply and sewerage sector.
22.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
for IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize it's catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to about $370 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.



-7-
PART III - INSTITUTIONAL SETTING 1/
23.      The Central Planning Organization (CPO) was established in 1972, as
the principal economic planning organ of the country. It is organized into
eight general departments, under a Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Assistant
Deputy Chairman. The Chairman is a cabinet-level minister (Minisrer of
Development) and reports to the High Planning Council, a cabinet committee
headed by the Prime Minister. This Council, supported at the technical level
by CPO, has overall responsibility for charting the country's long-term econo-
mic and social objectives and for instituting the broad elements of the policy
framework required to meet these objectives. To provide this technical under-
pinning, CPO has been vested with extensive powers in discharging its functions
in (i) planning and budgeting; (ii) project evaluation, approval and rdonicor-
ing; (iii) monitoring and evaluating plan implementation; and (iv) preparing,
processing and publishing of national statistics.
Planning and Budgeting
24.      The planning function was started immediately following the estab-
lishment of CPO. The Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-1976/77) was
prepared with World Bank and Kuwait Fund assistance. "hile this Program was
essentially a partial list of priority projects, it was a commendable achieve-
ment for a country which had only recently emerged from a debilitating civil
war and a long history of economic stagnation and isolation. With the experi-
ence gained during the implementation of this Program and the modest advances
made in developing a statistical base, a comprehensive First Five-Year Plan
(FFYP) (1976/77-1980/81) was prepared. In contrast to the Three-Year Program,
which was primarily a CPO document, the preparation of the First Five-Year
Plan involved a greater participation of line agencies and linked broad macro-
economic objectives with sectoral strategies and those, in turn, to an invest-
ment program.
25.      The Kuwait Fund, USAID, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the World
Bank, as an executing agency for a UNDP-financed project, provided additional
assistance in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (1982-86).
The World Bank/UND? support consisted mainly of assisting the Yemeni staff in
the preparation of background papers for the plan. In addition, World Bank
staff members were intimately involved in the plan preparation exercise by
reviewing and commenting on the draft plan as a whole. As a result of these
discussions, the original ambitious growth target was reduced to a somewhat
more realistic level. Bank staff involvement during the preparation phase
paved the way for additional Bank advice during implementation when, in 1983,
the Government solicited Bank assist-ince in revising the plan to further scale
down its investment target in line with the reduced availability of external
and domestic financing (para. 10). The Government agreed to many of the
Bank's recommendations and decided to postpone the implementation of some of
the projects originally included in the plan and to delete others. As a
1/ An organizational chart of CPO is presented in Annex IV and its main func-
tions and the planning and budgeting processes are described in Annex V.



-8-
complement to these austerity measures, the Government started applying a more
flexible and realistic exchange rate (para_ 10). Furthermore, as a follow-up
to this assistance, the Government requested a Bank economic mission, with IMF
participation, that would assist it in controlling recurrent expenditures and
improving revenue-earning performance in view of the poor budgetary positian
(para_ 9). This continuous dialogue with the Government on key policy matters
underlies the Government's request for IDA assistance to strengthen CPO.
26.      The establishment of a broad policy framework for development has
been accompanied by an evolving process of coordination and consultation in
plan preparation, involving CPO in the lead role, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the line ministries/agencies (see para. 6 of Annex V). The process
has yet to be extended, however, to provide effective linrkages with budget
preparation and CPO has yet to fully develop its role in this regard. It
should establish an iterative process to coordinate sectoral investment pro-
posals into a proposed investment budget, within the tight timeframe of the
budget preparation process, taking into account expenditure limits to be
agreed on a rolling basis with XOF. There is also a need to base the inclu-
sion of projects in the budget on more systematic criteria that reflect the
relative priorities of projects on an annual basis within the plan. Finally,
the quantitative link between the plan and the budget needs to be strengthened
by projecting the incremental recurrent expenditures that derive from invest-
ments during the plan period.
27.      Initial actions are being taken bv CPO to strengthen its role in the
budget preparation process. As a training exercise, it prepared an annual plan
for 1984, on an ex post basis, in line with the 1984 budget which had been
already in effect.  This learning experience is intended to enable CPO to play
a leadership role in preparing annual investment plans in subsequent years. P.
framework establishing the required sequential steps in the interaction bet-een
CPO, the line agencies and MOF in preparing the investment budget is under
discussion between CPO and the Ministry of Finance. The experience gained
would be used in annualizing the forthcoming Third Five-Year P an. A coordi-
nated effort by the General Departments of Planning and Research, Projects and
Loans, and Follow-up and Investment Budget of CPO is also proposed to facili-
tate forward programming of project expenditures and related updating of the
Five-Year Plan as a basis for decisions on the annual program. CPC is being
assisted in these various initiatives by an economic adviser financed by the
Kuwait Fund. Assistance will be extended under a proposed new project to be
financed bv the Kuwait Fund and complemented by proposed IDA assistance in
staff training under this project.
Project Review and Monitoring 1/
28.      A very important and integral part of both planning and budgeting is
the preparation, evaluation, and approval of projects to be included in the
plan and subsequently in the budget. The need for effective monitoring and
cost control during project development and implementation is equally clear
1/ See Annex V, paras. 10-13, for a more detailed account.



- 9 -
so that the cost assumptions of the investment plan are adjusted periodically
and retain their validity.
29.      CPO responsibility in the project review process lies primarily with
the General Department of Projects and Loans (GDPL). Following discussions
with the appraisal mission, the necessary links between the GDPL and the
Follow-up Department in project monitoring have recently been established by
assigning responsibility for physical and cost follow-up to the GDPL which
will report progress in these areas to the Follow-up Department; the latter
will follow up in overall project performance and outcome as part of its role
in monitoring and evaluating the investment program. In addition to its
functions in evaluating, approving and monitoring Projects, the GDPL is a
participant in plan preparation through its contribution to determine the
project portfolio and will in the future play an increasingly important role
in forward programming of project expenditures as part of the annual updating
of the plan.
30.      The GDPL is being assisted in project evaluation by specialists,
financed by che Federal Republic of Germany, who review and comment on feasi-
bility studies submitted by line ministrieslagencies.  However, as with the
line agencies, the GDPL lacks a cost estimating and control system which
would provide the necessary cost data and planning techniques to enable it to
perform effectively its overall role in project evaluation, and subsequent
project processing. The GDPL does not have the expertise to develop and
apply such a system, which will inevitably limit its contribution to plan
preparation dad forward programming and, combined with inadequate technical
staff in the General Department (para. 37), has resulted in delays and limited
effectiveness in project review. The development and application of an
appropriate system would be supported under the project (para. 49).
31.      The role of the General Department of Legal Affairs includes clear-
ance of all project agreements and contracts (see the Attachment to Annex
VIII(b)). While the General Department includes qualified legal personnel
among its staff, they do not have the experience or expertise to address
effectively the increased volume and complexity of issues arising in the
review of agreements atnd contracts. They are particularly concerned about
the growing complexity of procurement issues and the absence of unified
practices, procedures and documentation for the procuremer. process. The
project would address this issue by assisting in developing new procedures
and documencation for public agencies, and in providing training and support
in their application (para. 50). Coiplementary support would be provided to
the General Department of Legal Affairs by the Kuwait Fund in the form of
short-term consultancies, as required.
32.      While not in the mainstream of the project review process, another
important function of CPO is in coordinating technical assistance, which
includ2s preparing, negotiating and monitoring technical assistance agree-
ments with a variety of aid agencies. YAR continues to be the recipient of
major amounts of needed technical assistance. A recent review of technical
assistance performance in YAR indicates that both management and coordination



- 10 -
of technical assistance need to be greatly strengthened, at the level of the
line agencies as well as in CPO. The primary responsibility for initiating
and coordinating action lies with CPO's General Department for Technical
Cooperation and Conferences, in cooperation with line agencies. While this
General Department has a wide range of designated functions, its activities
to date in managing technical assistance have been limited. While key staff
of this Geeral Department are academically qualified, and a number of
university graduates have recently been added, they lack necessary experience
and expertise. This deficiency will be addressed under the project. As an
initial orientation measure, the Director General of this General Department,
along with colleagues from other Yemeni agencies, participated in a seminar
on the management of technical assistance conducted by the the World Bank in
the Fall of 1984. Only limited information is now available on the levels of
graduation, numbers returning and subsequent placement in YAR of the many
thousands of Yemenis who have been sent abroad for training under extensive
fellowship programs. She proposed technical assistance specialist under this
project would coordinate with a proposed USAID-funded advisor in assisting in
operating a system to trace the output from the overseas training programs.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Plan Implementation
33.      The responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of plan implementa-
tion lies with the Follow-up Department. Its functionq iave been broadly set
in monitoring the implementation of annual and medium-term plans and in
evaluating project and plan outcome, including outputs, costs and benefits,
employment creation, etc. Its functions extend to establishing an integrated
follow-up system for the plan and investment programs, specifying the role of
the executing agencies and the methodologies and criteria to be adopted in
both implementation and follow-up. The management of CPO now wishes to
strengthen the follow-up function on both the macro and project levels. The
work of this Department is limited as yet and there is an acknowledged need
to support it in addressing its functions, both in establishing operational
procedures and practices and in the training of staff. The appointment of
appropriately qualified additional staff members is a first step (para. 37).
Support in developing the capabilities of the department will be provided
through a Follow-up Specialist financed on a grant basis by IDA 1/ and
through staff training under this project.
Statistics/Data Processing
34.      The collection, collation and publicat%on of a wide range of national
data is critical to the planning process. Responsibilities in this respect
are shared between the CPO's General Department of Statistics and the General
Department of Data Bank and Central Information (GDDBCI). The former is being
assisted by one specialist from UNPA and one from ECWA, funded by UNDP.
While the GDDBCI has a well-established structure and adequate staffing at
this stage, its capabilities to process the range of priority data needed
1/ One of the twenty positions approved for IDA countrips to be financed by
IDA on a grant basis.



- 11 -
have not been developed. Its activities are limited at present to a few
statistical tasks and documentation of limited personnel management informa-
tion for CPO. IDA missions have identified and agreed on structural changes
in GDDBCI whi=h would obviate current overlapping of activities within various
divisions as well as provide a more logical grouping of functions. Futrther-
more, a list of additional equipment and related software has been prepared
by IDA and GDDBCI staff, which would permit more effective use of the output
capabilities of the existing computer facilities, and extend those capabili-
ties to meet medium-term needs. The intention is, as recommended by IDA, to
centralize data processing as much as possible and thus avoid proliferating
the purchase of very expensive equipment and related software, particularly
in view of the very limited number of qualified personnel in the country.
The GDDBCI staff, while academically qualified, lacks the expertise and
specialized training to develop the capabilities of the department to meet
these requirements. The proposed project would provide this needed assis-
tance through expert support and on-the-job and overseas training for selected
staff (paras. 59 and 60). It would also provide the basic equipment needed
at this stage by GDDBCI.
Institutional Development Strategy
35.      A fair assessment of CPO's performance to date in its main planning
and project review and approval functions has to be seen in the context of
the chronic shortage of qualified Yemeni staff and their young experience.
Keeping these two related factors in mind, the progress achieved so far has
been significant, whether measured by the increasing sophistication in the
planning process itself or by the form that economic plans have taken (start-
ing with partial investment programs and moving towards annualized comprehen-
sive plansi, the increasing number of Yemenis involved in the preparation of
plans, and, more importantly, the pragmatism and basic soundness of invest-
ment priorities and the country's economic policy framework. In all of these
areas, CPO has played and continues to play a central role. The areas of
weakness are, to a large measure, shortcomings that stand in the way of per-
forming particular functions better rather than gross defects in policy or
judgment. These in turn, often relate to staff constraints. The main weak-
ness regarding planning and budgeting that was identified earlier (para. 26)
involves the need to strengthen the link between medium-term plans and the
budget through annualizing the medium-term plan. This has been recognized by
the Government and efforts to remedy this situation are underway. Even here,
it should be stated that an important qualitative link is already in opera-
tion since projects included in the budget are by and large consistent with
the strategic and policy objectives of the plan and are typically found in
the plan's investment program.
36.      The Prime Minister and the Minister of Development and Chairman of
CPO are determined to further strengthen CPO so that it may exercise a
stronger planning and control function. The Minister recognizes that con-
siderable work remains to be done in establishing cohesion and c3mplementarity
between the activities of the various general departmen-s of CPO and in
building up their capability to perform their functions in a dynamic and



- 12 -
flexible wanner. The various proposed actions detailed in previous para-
graphs, vhich address identified weaknesses in CPO's operations and which
require external support, are major planks in the Minister's efforts to
strengthen CPO. These measures are being accompanied by other initiatives
aimed at strengthening overall staffing capabilities and management and
coordination.
37.      Strengthening Staff Capabilities.  The major consideration is that
of recruitment of qualified staff. CPO's staffing position was greatly weak-
ened from 1977 when many of the well-qualified professir"als who initially
staffed CPO at the senior levels, and made it into a focal point for develop-
ment policy, left for other agencies. In addition, CPO lost its special
salary status and had difficulty in recruiting people of a sufficiently high
caliber at the operational level. Encouraging progress has recently been
made, however, in recruitment of university graduates, of whom there are now
122 out of a total staff of 365. The recruitment position has been further
improved under current salary structures which permit CPO to pay special
allowances, and special incentives related to qualifications, so as to attract
and retain qualified staff. As a result, CPO is now in a position to recruit
additional technical staff, namely, engineers for the Projects General
Department and economists for the rollow-up Department, for which recruitment
arrangements are proceeding, and thus will address identified staffing defi-
ciencies in these two departments.
38.      As might be expected, many CPO staff members lack experience for
their assigned tasks. Administrative and management training needs are being
identified with support from the National Institute of Public Administration,
which will arrange for the provision of such training in-country, to be
supported by more advanced short-term training overseas for senior staff.
The need for specialized on-the-job training, combined with overseas train-
ing, in priority areas has also been identified.
39.      Strengthening Management and Coordination.  The CPO has recentlv
been reorganized from five intc eight general departments. The new structure
responds adequately to the needs of CPO but has brought with it problems of
operational coordination between some of the general departments. A lack of
clarity in the respective functions of some of these d-nirtments has added to
the problem. A number of actions are being taken. The originally stated
functions for each general department were in a number of instances over-
ambitious and were not sufficiently focussed to provide a sound basis for
development of the General Departments' activities. These functions are now
being reviewed and refined under the overall direction of the Deputy Chair-
man. To support these efforts, a Performance Improvement Program Workshop
will be conducted for CPO by the National Institute of Public Administration,
similar to successful workshops already conducted for two other public agen-
cies. It will assist staff in redefining their activities collectively, in
identifying problems and in determining a program to address these problems.
The proposed project would provide management services to assist with follow-
up to this workshop; the various other specialists financed under the project
would also contribute to clarifying and integrating the functions of the



- 13 -
various departments on the basis of their day-to-day experience with their
operation.
40.      The CPO Chairman agreed that effective coordination between the
General Departments of CPO is critical and that, for this purpose, additional
measures are necessary. He has already issued a decree assigning responsi-
bility for coordinating the functions of the Technical Cooperation, Statis-
tics, Data Bank and Finance and Administration General Departments to the
Assistant Deputy Chairman. The Deputy Chairman will now have explicit respon-
sibility for coordinating the functions of the Planning, Projects, Follow-up
and Legal Affairs General Departments. If, after a trial period of six months,
it appeared that the Deputy Minister needed assistance in the performance of
this task, a second Assistant Deputy Chairman would be appointed for the pur-
pose.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.      The initiative for the project came from the Chairman of CPO who
initially requested assistance in developing the capabilities of the Data Bank
and Central Information General Department. In subsequent discussions with
the Bank, wider technical assistance needs were identified and a coherent
framework for such assistance designed. Two follow-up missions in March and
May 1984 assisted in project preparation. The project was appraised in July
1984. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington from
January 23-24, 1985. The YAR delegation was led by His Excellency Fathi
Salem, Deputy Chairman of CPO, and included Messrs. Tareq Al-Hasri and Mohamad
Abu Lohom of CPO and Mr. Abdul Aziz Al-Zariqah, Economic Attache of the YAR
Embassy in Washington, D.C.  A credit and project summary is provided at the
beginning of this report and Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Obiectives
42.      The major objective of the project would be to create a national staff
capability in key General Departments of CPO to enable them to perform their
functions more effectively. It would also introduce more effective procedures
aimed at strengthening the operations of CPO and its working relationships
with other agencies, as well as assisting those agencies in economic planning,
project processing and management of technical assistance   For those purposes
it would combine with the proposed expanded assistance to CPO from the Kuwait
Fund in economic planning and with ongoing assistance from the Federal Republic
of Germany in project evaluation, as well as with the specialist assistance in
project monitoring to be provided on a grant basis by IDA (para. 54).
Project Justification
43.      CPO has so far played a central role in the development of YAR.  In
its early days, it took the initiative in formulating the country's first
investment program and established the rudiments of a modest policy frame-
work. This was done with the assistance of IDA and other aid donors. Since



- 14 -
then, line ministries and agencies have developed their own capabilities and
have taken more of the initiative themselves in articulating their respective
sectoral strategies and investment priorities. However, CPO still plays the
central and fundamental role of coordinating the development efforts of these
ministries and agencies and of formulating the overall macroeconomic policy
framework. This role has become more demanding as the size and the complexity
of the public investment program have increased and the choice among projects,
at the margin, has become less streightforward. Macrofinancial policy deci-
sions have also become linked with more difficult choices and trade-offs in
view of the current need for continuing the austerity program. Should the
recent discovery of oil prove commercial, it would provide some relief from
the financial constraints. However, the development vf this resource and the
management of any revenue it generates is likely to create a new set of policy
choices that would require good analysis.
44.      It is important that the technical assistance that CPO has received
so far be continued. The training provided under the initial World Bank/
Kuwait Fund project was disseminated to other Government agencies when many of
CPO's original staff transferred there. The proposed project would provide a
reinjection of needed --astitutional support ir. areas that would complement the
assistance being currently provide.d by UNDP and the Federal Republic of
Germany, and the further assistance envisaged by the Kuwait Fund. The project
would also complement the considera'le technical assistance being provided to
YAR by a number of aid donors. Almost every line ministry or project agency
in the country is the beneficiary of some form of technical assistance
designed to strengthen the capabilities of these ministries/agencies. By
strengthening CPO to play its central coordinating role more effectively, the
benefits of this assistance would be enhanced.
Project Description
45.      The project comprises about 13 staff-years of specialists's services;
about 27 staff-years of overseas fellowship training; English language train-
ing, mainly in-country, for about 16 nationals; and office and data processing
equipment, to assist in strengthening CPO in five main areas of activity:
(i) national economic planning and public investment programming; (ii) project
evaluation and approval (including approval of contracts); (iii) follow-up of
investment programs; (iv) management of technical assistance; and (iv)
developing and managing a national data bank.
National Economic Planning and Public Investment Programming
46.      Proposed assistance to the General Department of Planning and
Research (GDPR), mainly from the Kuwait Fund, would be directed towards
refining the framework and implementing procedures for the newly commenced
annual investment planning effort (para. 27). Close coordination would be
established with the Projects, and Follow-up and tnvestment Budget General
Departments in forward programming of proiect expenditures and related
updating of the Five-Year Plan as a basis for decisions on the annual programs.



- 15 -
47.      The GDPR would also be assisted in developing the framework and
preparing guidelines for medium-term macroeconomic, sectoral and investment
planning by line agencies, and in coordinating sectoral planning. More
effective linkages would be established between investment planning and
macro-financial planning. These measures would form part of the preparatory
action leading to the development of the next Five-Year Plan (1987-91).
48.      The contract of the current economic adviser to the GDPR, funded by
the Kuwait Fund, has been extended by three years. Under a proposed new proj-
ect, also to be funded by the Kuwait Fund, a general economic planner and a
sectoral economic planner, for three years each, will be appointed to further
assist the GDPR through advice, backstopping and on-the-job training in the
above activities. The project would complement the on-the-job training by
sending four selected staff members, who will be academically qualified, for
specialized training abroad, for three months each, in economic and financial
planning. To address deficiencies in their English language capabilities,
both in terms of their ability to handle English language documentation and to
undertake overseas training, about 30 staff-months of foreign language
training in total will be provided for the selected staff members.
Project Evaluation and Approval
49.      The General Department of Projects and Loans (GDPL) is being assisted
on an ongoing basis by the Federal Republic of Germany in the economic
evaluation of larger scale projects proposed by sectoral agencies. The
proposed project would complement this assistance and extend the overall
competence of the GDPL in cost evaluation and monitori-a of projects by
developing and applying techniques and criteria for a cost-estimating and
control system. Subsequently, it would assist CPO in advising the line
agencies on streamlining and standardizing, to the maximum extent possible,
the project-related cost data to be submitted to CPO at the various stages of
the project cycle. The objective would be to overcome current bottlenecks in
project processing and to ensure an effective cost data base for preparation,
review and approval of projects. The proposed cost estimating and control
system would include post-contract cost control procedures, with the respec-
tive roles of the line agencies and CPO delineated. Such a system would
facilitate reporting by the GDPL tc the Follow-up Department on the cost
aspects of project progress.
50.      Tne project would also address procurement issues which are now of
frequent occurrence. It would assist the GDPL and the Legal Affairs General
Department in developing and operating improved procurement practices, as a
follow-up to a procuremqnt workshop organized by IDA and scheduled to be held
in YAR in March/April 1985. It would similarly assist these General
Departments in providing advice and guidance to the High Tender Committee in
evaluating tenders and in addressing procurement issues.
51.      In addition, the project would assist in enhancing the capability of
the Legal Affairs General Department to review the wide variety of agreements
and contract documentation, to identify contract issues, and to develop stan-
dardized contract documentation. The project would also assist this General



- 16 -
Department in coordinating with line agencies to apply the standardized
documentation on a uniform basis throughout the public sector.
52.      A cost specialist (civil engineer or chartered quantity surveyor
specialized in costing systems) would provide advice, backstopping and
training to the nominated qualified staff of the GDPL in developing and
implementing the revised cost planning and control procedures and in advising
line agencies on cost planning requirements (Terms of Reference in Annex
VIII(a)). His assignment would be for two years. To complement on-the-job
training, four selected staff, with an engineering/architectural or related
background, would each receive three months overseas trining in costing
systems and procurement practices. The staff would each receive English
language training as necessary prior to proceeding to overseas training.
53.      Similarly, a contract specialist (civil engineer or architect/engineer
specialized in contract law) would be recruited for two years to advise and
provide training for staff of the Legal Affairs General Department (Terms of
Reference in Annex VIII(b)). In view of the need for continuity in training
and backstopping in the initial period and in coordinating with line agencies,
the proposed contract period of two years for this specialist was considered
more appropriate than short-term consultancies. Five qualified staff members
would also receive one to three months overseas training in contractual and
procurement practices, together with English language training as appropriate.
Follow-up of Plan and Investment Program Implementation
54.      Responsibility for follow-up lies with the Follow-up Department
attached to the General Department of Follow-up and Investment Budget. A
specialist financed on a grant basis by IDA will shortly be recruited to
assist in refining the functions and determining the training needs of the
Follow-up Department; and in advising, assisting and training the national
staff members in carrying out their functions, particularly the provision of
quarterly and annual reports on the achievements and problems related to the
implementation of the Second Five-Year Plan, with a view to recommending
appropriate action by CPO management. The specialist will also assist in the
CPO effort to establish a strong working relationship with each of the tech-
nical ministries, particularly their planning/follow-up/statistics units, and
in the training of the staff of these units.
55.      As a complement to this assistance, the project would provide
specialized overseas training for selected staff members of the Follow-up
Department. The training needs will be more specifically defined when the
IDA-financed specialist is appointed. Needs which have been identified at
this time are in development planning and project evaluation and follow-up.
Key staff members would also receive English language training, preparatory to
overseas training.
Management of Technical Assistance
56.      The project would provide assistance to the General Department of
Technical Cooperation and Conferences (GDTCC) in addressing deficiencies in



- 17 -
the management of technical assistance at the CPO and agency levels. It would
assist in classifying current practices and procedures in the design, imple-
mentation and monitoring of technical assistance as a basis for developing
improved procedures by CPO in the management and coordination of technical
assistance, and in providing guidelines to sectoral agencies in the management
of their technicaI assistance. It would also reinforce local capabilities in
the management of technical assistance, through backstopping in the initial
application of the revised procedures, on-the-job training to designated staff
members, arrangements for seminars/workshops in management of technical
assistance and overseas training in the management of technical assistance to
selected staff members.
57.      A technical assistance specialist would be recruited under the
project for two years to advise and provide tralt £,lg, on-the-job and through
seminars/workshops, to designated staff members of the GDTCC and sectoral
agencies in the abeve activities (Terms of Reference in Annex VIII(c)). The
project would also provide training abroad of about one month eacl in manage-
ment of technical assistance for twelve selected staff members from CPO and
the sectoral agencies.
Developing ard Managing the National Data Bank
58.      The project would expand the limited capabilities of the General
Department of the Data Bank and Central Information (para. 34) to process
national data required as a basis for the planning process, and to serve the
data processing needs o: CPO, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of
Yemen. This service wotld be extended to the Prime Minister's Office and, on
a selective and more limited basis, to other agencies. A phased action plan
would be prepared for accomplishing the above tasks and would detail the
targets to be met under the project.
59.      A senior advisor/computer specialist (systems analyst with experience
in planning and management of computer centers) would advise and assist GDDBCI
senior staff in developing the proposed action plan and policy guidelines and
procedures for its implementation, in developing application programs to maxi-
mize the use of the existing computer facilities, and would prepare and carry
out inhouse training programs. His services would extend over two years. He
would be supported, after the initial planning phase of about six months, by
two technical advisors (computer specialists) for two years each, to train
inhouse GDDBCI technical staff in systems analysis, database design, program-
ming methodology, operating systems, telecommunications and networking docu-
mentation, and application systems; and to assist in implementing such systems.
Terms of reference for the specialists are included in Annex VIII(d).
60.      In addition to inhouse training, extensive overseas specialized
training needs have been identified and funding to meet these needs are in-
cluded under the project. Such training would include 20 staff-years of
fellowships, seven for two years each and twelve for six months each, in
various disciplines related to information resource management and systems
development. It would also include short-term visits by senior staff to other



- 18 -
national computing centers and attendance at seminars on the management of
national computing centers.
61.      Finally, the project would include data processing equipment needed
to meet the medium-term needs of GDDBCI, as well as a limited amount of equip-
ment for individual departments of CPO (Annex IX).
General
62.      As a follow-up to the planned Program Improvement Workshop (para. 39),
the project includes six months of management consultants to assist in moni-
toring and evaluating the program of improvements to be agreed at the workshop.
It also includes an additional six months of consultants to meet needs as they
arise in the course of project implementation.
63.      The project would provide 12 months of training in administration and
management. Training needs at the lower and mid-management levels would be
identified in association with the National Institute of Public Administration
(NIPA) and through the above workshop. The bulk of this training would be
provided in-country by NIPA. Overseas training will be required, however, at
the senior management level, and would include about one month of management
training to be financed under the project for the heads of each of the General
Departments.
Training
64.      All of the project components include a considerable measure of
on-the-job training, complemented by overseas training, for CPO staff. To
ensure that such training will be effective, the staff to be selected for
training would have appropriate academic backgrounds. In addition, to maxi-
mize the impact of the training to be provided by expatriate specialists, at
least three national CPO staff members, with agreed appropriate qualifica-
tions, would be assigned to work with each specialist. Overseas training,
both short and longer-term, will be phased (Annex VI) so as to limit disrup-
tion to ongoing work and to ensure the maximum availability of the appointed
national staff for on-the-job training.
Project Implementation
65.      The Deputy Minister would be responsible for ensuring any necessary
coordination between the various specialist inputs under the project and with
specialist inputs from other aid agencies. ne will be assisted in this task
by the Director General of the GDPL, who will be designated as Project
Coordinator, answerable to the Deputy Minister.
66.      The Projects General Department, which has extensive experience of
IDA procedures, and has overall responsibility for liaison with IDA on IDA-
assisted projects in YAR, will be responsible, under the Deputy Minister, for
coordinating arrangements for project implementation. For this purpose, the
Projects General Department will arrange, in collaboration with the other
concerned departments of CPO, for the hiring of specialists in accordance with



- 19 -
IDA guidelines and on the basis of the agreed terms of reference, for moni-
toring and evaluating the performance of specialists in accordance with the
criteria included in the terms of reference, for appointing and training of
national staff, and for arranging for foreign language and specialized train-
ing of the selected staff. Logistical arrangements for the specialists' visas,
housing, etc., will be undertaken by the Public Relations Department of CPO.
Project Monitoring
67.      Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation would include
Ci) quarterly progress reports to be prepared by the Projects General Depart-
ment and submitted to the Deputy Minister and IDA; and (ii) semi-annual reviews
of progress, including a review of progress in staff training, to be under-
taken with the participation of the Deputy Minister, the heads of the concerned
General Departments, the appointed specialists and national staff, and IDA
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project costs
68.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes (from which
the project would be exempt), is estimated at $5.38 million, including a
foreign exchange component of $4.29 million. The proposed IDA contribution of
SDR 4.7 million vapproximately $4.7 million at date of credit negotiations)
would cover the entire foreign exchange cost and about 38 percent of local
costs, i.e. about 87 percent of total costs. The Government would meet the
other local costs, including the cost of support services for the expatriate
specialists. The base costs have been estimated at January 1985 prices.
Price contingencies of 13 percent have been included, based on an expected
annual inflation of 8 percent in 1985 and 9 percent in 1986 through 1989 for
foreign costs and 10 percent throughout the 1985-89 period for local costs. A
physical contingency of 5 percent has also been included.
Procurement
69.      Specialists would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the employment
of consultants (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04). Terms of refer-
ence for che long-term experts have been prepared and agreed with the Associa-
tion (Annex VIII). Terms of reference for short-term specialists and arrange-
ments for overseas training would be subject to the prior review and approval
of the Association. The equipment to be provided, amounting in total to $1.45
million, excluding contingencies, consists of computer and word processing
equipment and related software which expand the existing equipment installa-
tions with which they must be compatible. Compatible equipment can only be
obtained from the manufacturers of the original equipment and, accordingly,
the equipment will be procured through negotiations on price with these manu-
facturers. Provision is alno included for an uninterruptable power supply
system for the computer installations, at an estimated cost of t300,000. The
availability of servicing and spare parts for this system is an absolute
requirement. In the circumstances, and as the nature and size of the instal-
lation work involved would not in any event attract overseas competition, the



- 20 -
system would be procured by obtaining bids from at least three qualified local
firms.
Retroactive Financing
70.      To permit the GDDBCI to make the initial arrangements at an early
date for the development of the first of the planned new computer applica-
tions, the Government proposes to proceed in early calendar year 1985 with the
purchase of a limited amount of computer software and related equipment from
the list proposed for financing under the project. Procurement of the
software End equipment would follow the procedure outlined in the previous
paragraph. Retroactive financing of up to $0.5 million under the project is
proposed to meet the estimated foreign exchange costs involved in these
advance purchases.
Disbursement
71.      Funds from IDA would be disbursed over four yAps from credit signing
(Annex VII). Accordingly, the project would be completed by June 30, 1989
with a closing date of December 31, 1989. Disbursements would be on the basis
of 100 percent of the total costs of expert services, 90 percent of equipment
and material, and 80 percent of the total cost of training. Applications for
reimbursement would be for amounts of not less than $20,000. Reimbursement
for contracts for goods or services with a contract value below $10,000 would
be made solely on the basis of statements of expenditures.
72.      In accordance with normal practice for CPO, the account for the proj-
ect would be established in the Finance Department and operated by the Loan
Accounts Department. The accounts would be subject to audit in accordance
with arrangements acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the accounts, and
the auditors' annual report thereon, including a specific report on the audit
of withdrawals based on statements of expenditures, would be sent to IDA with-
in six months of the end of each fiscal year. At the request of the Govern-
ment, payment into the account would be through a special account (revolving
fund) denominated in dollars, which would be established in the Central Bank
of Yemen at a level of $0.5 million, in accordance with standard IDA condi-
tions.
Benefits and Risks
73.      The major benefit that would accrue to YAR under the proposed proj-
ect, which complements assistance from other aid donors, would be an enhanced
local capability for economic planning and plan follow-up. The project would
enable CPO to (i) play a more dynamic role in coordinating the country's
development efforts; (ii) monitor projects in a timely a-d effective manner;
(iii) provide support and coordination in the management of technical assis-
tance; and (iv) develop and maintain a national data bank as a basis for sec-
toral and overall economic planning. The benefits to the line agencies would
be considerable, arising from more effective coordination between them and CPO
in sectoral and investment planning and from the improvements to project pro-
cessing by CPO. The line agencies would also receive advice and assistance



- 21 -
under the projecc to improve their own procedures for investment planning and
project processing, and to manage technical assistance. Finally, the project
would be expecred to lead to improved cost control and procurement practices
in YAR, applicable to all sectors.
74.      Experience with technical assistance aimed at institutional support
in YAR indicates that it can only have a limited and short-term impact unless
qualified nationals are appointed to work with and are trained by the expa-
triate specialists. Agreement has been reached with the Government on the
names and qualifications of the appointed staff, and the training role of the
specialists have been emphasized in all their terms of reference. In addi-
tion, a review of progress in training will be a key element in the monitoring
of performance. The possibility of turnover of appointed national staff
remains. A major turnover is not anticipated in view of the expected increased
flow of graduates into the public sector, and the provision under current
salary structures whereby CPO is in a position to pay special incentives
related to qualifications, to attract and retain a qualified staff. At least
three nationals will be assigned to each expatriate specialist, so that some
turnover can be accommodated without significant adverse impact.
75.      At the same time, to ensure that project objectives will be met, it
will be necessary that IDA play an active and supportive role to the Govern-
ment in the selection of experts, in the overseas placement of trainees, in
commenting and advising on proposed new procedures, and most importantly in
monitoring project performance. The allocation of supervision time to this
project will reflect these requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Republic
and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.      Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III.
78.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
February 6, 1985



-22-                                               AN  I
TABLE X                                      Page 1 of 5
,am    . or    -   a        5L  I        DD:OM S
_WF 4                     zrplUST  OUST    N T3. A) L       i
ssr~cm    m2cr ZM                  )  rb     
mr--          Pan= loCmz             KOOiUZ         CA
1          w. r. m                     c    r 2  usr    LA. DG  a
TaL                                 1MO         219.0       t9
AUIULXURaL                          96.6        97.3        97.9 
cw mm ..M CB)                                     110.0       500.0             1149.6                 210L.6
CEXIOtAS OF OIL E5,UUL?)             3.0        ILO         57.0             6.1                     99LS5
A     EL  323=
P ATZUIC.-TE*t CTOOUIA1S)    4163.0           5258.0      7470.0 IC
003*  lOMATh  CZ OI TOTR:            3.4         7.J        14.3              42                      66.5
PUP0LSThK PUOECIIES
P'2PUATIUU XS lEAR 2000 9U1L)                             124
STAXTIOFaR  FaUMATXZ   (MILL)                             43.
FOPULATIUE   1ht                                            .9
PUPULAXXOK DErrT
PM sq.  -                         21.3        27.0        37.2              361.                    35 7
PElt SQ. VEl AGL IAND             43.1        54.0        74.1             461.7                   92.4
POPWLA'rZK aZ SEICEK  CZ)
0-M TM                           42.4        43.0        44.3              43.6                    39.9
15-f TSR                          54.4        53.9        52.0              53.1                   36.0
A5 AM ASI                          3                       3.2               3.3                    4.1
?OPULATXICK   113 RATE CX)
TOL                                2.3         Z.3         2.9               2.8                    2.4
CHN                                  1        10.2          .3               4.5                     3.6
cRUOE S3I   RATE (PM TOl)           49.7        48.8        483               40-4                    3113
CUE EAII RATE (PE 105)              2.1L       26.         21.6              11.5                    8.1
CQSS REPRCUCTET  RATE                 L4         3.3         3.0               2.8                     L.0
FAMILY ftPLIOC
USERS (O  AFtE UMe                  ..                     t.0 ra           22.2                   40.3
FODwND1021O
IDE X   FOOW PM   PER CATA
C1969-71W0)                        119.0        84.0        93.0              97.3                  114.3
PER CAIT  SUPPLY OF
CALaEm CZ (1O0  R0tCr9IS)         90.0        76.0        760               110.8                  110.6
P*UlKm  (GEMS PUT DA)             69.0        35.0        50.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WKVCM ANAL*  PSM      I      180         14.0        19.0 le           17.3                   34.1
OtIlD (ACES 1-4) DEAI RtE           60.4        49.0        30.0              14.6                    5.7
L:rE EPVDCT. AT S1U1  CTASS)        35,9        38.5        43.7              57.5                   64.7
!RFAAX ?WIT. PATE CPU T300S)       Z11.6       188.0       163.0             101.S                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TCTAL                               ,,         4.0         4,0 if           59.7                    65.4
RA"I                                ..        *45.0       30.0 Tr           84*                    78l
aGRAL                               ..          .0         2.0 7F           38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
C: CF POPULATIOX)
ICT,,AL                             ..                      .,                                     532 9
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                ..                   67.0
RDeAL                               -'''''24.5
POPELATIaS PER PIIYSICA%        110030.0    24370.0      11b70.0             345.1                 1917.7
POP. PM %CRSl  PERSOS                  .          ..      45E.0              18M1.1                 813.8
POP. Pt HuSPITAL MD
TCTAL                           2730.0      1430.0      1 1700.0           632.9                  367.2
uBAN                                ..          ..       380.0             S&S.5                  411.5
R>AL                                ..          ..      63S0.0            2513.5                 2636.3
AbI1SS0SM rtU HOSPIlD  KQ             ,.          ..        14.3              26.2                   27.3
NU-M
A9 e SIZE oF OIWSEHO0L
TOTAL                               ..          ..         5.0 /b
URBAN ~~                   -          _-          *2 7r t            _
RLVAL                                                      6:07Jt
AVEPACE aO  OF PERSOuS/R0O6
TrAL                                _.          _.         2._ fh
URBA                                ..          ..         1.87it
MR>AL                               3. ..1   h                                 ..
ACCISS TO ELECT. (20: oWErCSN)
TTL                                 ._.___2                                                          _
URBAK                               _.          .         56.5 thl.         77.7
RtERAL                              ..          ._           _               16.1 



23- AZNEX I
T A * L F4 3^Page  2 of 5
m. AREP. oF    - SecUL IKCATS  Au
KOS?                CIOS5 REMci  ESTWAM) /b
1i9eaOt    imA      zsmi LŽC   w.                        _LT.           cm
ADJUS=J *      3  RATIS
PRfL.rt!  TOTAL                   8.0        12.0        67.0               W.:                  105.4
MALL                   1;.0        23.0        82.0              102.5                 IC6.3
MALE                     C&0.5      2.0         1M.0              7.6                   14.5
SECNART: TOUTL                      ..         1.0         5.0              43.0                   A3.2
ALE                        .        2.0          9.0              52.3                   42.3
MALE                     ..         0.1         2.0               33.0                   4.5
VOATIOAL CZ Of SEECOlARY)           3.2 1      2.2          4.6 ,            10.3                   13.6
PU?IL-ZEACH  RATI
PUXM4RT                           '5.0       510          4.0               30.3                   30.1
SECO5DAIE                         24.0 4a    24.0         18.0 lb           23.1                   16.J
40= Lr ERACT RATE (2)                2.5 I    10.0 /k       22.0              43.5                   79.5
ELp,  , CAS/IVSUSA,V POP                                                      17.8          *6,0
3*210 RECE;S;ElS/?R0SAM 20?           ..        15.3 jj     15.6             131.5                  Z25.6
TV ECEIVElUSASD 20                    ..         ..          0.2              46.1                  107.2
SVIsPAPU CWDur NRAL
!STZRES?') CICUUAT105
PER IWAIq POPULATIS                 ..         0.7          ..               31.2                  63.5
CLIL A4L ATTENDASCAA                  ..         .           2.1               1.7                    2.8
TAL LABOR  CE CTS)                1263.0      1481.0      1863.0
FEALE (PCRI3)                      3.7         *.5         5.4               10.8                  23.2
(PERCEEt.)              .0        79.0         5.0               42.4                   31.5
xIrZK   CPENCE                     7.0        9.0         11.0              27.9                   z3.9
?AXTcIATIOK RATE CPEZCAT)
YOTUA                             30.3        23.2        Z4.9               2S.2                  32.2
MtALE                             57.?        55.0        49.9              46.4                   49.3
PV4hX.E                            2.3          .5         2.6               5.3                   15.2
SCOSO    DEPMECfT RATIO              1.5        1.6          1.9               1.8                    1.4
T           a I
PE2;EX  Ci RVATE ZSflS
R3EEIE  ST
HiCNS 5: or HOUSEMM2S               ..          ..
ICZES 20- Or DHOUSEMWS              ..          ..
LrEST 202 oF U     S                ..          ..          ..                ....
L0:RS* 4 F07 nOUSz. 
MM= TW  atom
ESMATED ABSOLUTE POvTwY DCQ¢E
LVEL (USS PER CAPIA)
Ur"        .         366.0             274.8                  288.2
RUL                                 ,,          .,          ,.             177.2                  154.0
ESTMAXED RuTm  POVRTY niZ
LEVEL CUSS FM CAPIAJ
L'I 4..                                      ..          ..             42.6                   522.6
RURAL                               ..          ..       157.0             284.9                  37Z2.4
ESTIMAD POP. BELOL. ASSMEM
POVERTY IC    LEM  (2)
R. ..                                           ...
RURL                                ..          ..
M02 AVALARZ--
SOT APPLICABIE
No   C 5
ta  Mhe goo  averages fw each Indecator are papvetlotbewghted arithmetic mens. Coverag of con-tries eanon the
incature depends on aeZlsbiLty of data    to la nt uafarv.
/b Dcle othereLee noted. DAta for 1960r 'er to an year betoee  1959 and 1961; 'Mta for 1970  be_tan 1969 and
1971; and data far  eoat lacent Estlivae  Atven 1960 ed 162.
tc  Resldent population, tt clude. mirast * irkars abroed for lees the a yeru  /d 1979; to 1977; If 1976;
La 1972; Ih 1975; /I ln th mejor citta  of Same. Tais end Nodaldah; 1jW62; &Tk?3.
lUKE. 1984



-24-                                                                       Annex I
sOii.
Page 3 of 5
00.05*t.
500 r.tero                St 000 -          io CS - OS              tenets   t to eet a                                    Ce- t   *  tee                         - .5
5.05000 rut I.e-..t to. st.tr Tee.- Ott iee.etse giso. ars- tea 1.05 nirt ,oe - noose eot to .- te - .oes-e es.oo.ee: t..o.
arrisotral. r* t0 ra.on ..  too. ne                    - .oist.tOa              eetoi.                -  isttea -  -   ett. -  nint, - ce. tarot. SO.
.jn. - Os. ito tote nbltt-soo... nee. is '.n. .i .e.Sirte. - i tttoste-. 0s - Is e.etittit. -. en. 0.0** souse.. iste- -
eseftie. i-. .ot.ct's eneOsO tsett-so-i to at-i 'Se- .,. alp etoi to -.sotO... tt- t5tie 00 t. - 0 09.0 CS it- tarp
So 1t.C st.0                                                                                  Ptfljfl   - soot site. albIno - .5  -. i.ifltetit
- beeI nfl.t. ten rit*Ott tOe  'C  -   astOtO eei.. 3002.                              rsot.-rso  oetit A it-st *   4t..i soti    etieflit. ire.!.
Cr ns                                                                          its.t.     -  5.4.. i..    - ietot.t toe tooth. hr nh. .9 sr-t IbIto
sts-tro-ot - 9u.ooe.  nitstsrs! e# soOt t...,tls  -  ter'sls                               e-ts      sCot. OWOte  .r.s.. *e.t5    he--t. tt.rtt.et nOC  5
Poe rono.    i..so.      -t e   -ttC  oein         -  it. *etes. *Oit*                     nO.3.0 eat ite..O.o
toO. -a i.                                                                                es.,oe os. -  ine3t -t -. - s.oot  --   -   i.t.t - r.ne .s  toast.
er* nO .ati tioth. 0. rn. r r.tt.e . .9 roerot St.
Sfls  enim  n.ofl - 5   is. .-rt,s o.utO. a  ..n.                0 eeOc..                     .eettotr *- esdti. at it 5t* *e.t             t.e.t.t t..  0* Otel -
rsta   Siotot -  os-It           ala  ltt-C        t*.                     rss   lit .rte-  sot.,...  nsstteto so r.e.oar..not. oe.sttr teem
tInt  1.50  5                                                                                 'to -  Stoet -   LU.-... te-.  tOt*4t0i5  Mtitts's iii- tottr esiOe*tet
.. uo-t.ao. mt-e: o.tt.t..  roria 5.100 set
C          ?ti  tt. 0.050 -        1     t*    sotote- -  ..et..t                              ttoei          oet t*      To .Ct -  -  C    otete-    Sr -   Otoet
tW      -.Cp lt        ittotiot ri iteb...5. .t..ste en 5   % -.        resr                aebeeseO.          ottt.. .o..t   O.- .i.e  ts..-nttC.c e-e-tso
-         ent .ennnofl S. CriSis 0  Ott r*tteelfl - ante. ts.t.                             rist   * itottot i   a  e.oi..t te-.ttrtn.
.550  e.g an.  oe..                                                                         a   ..t a   .. ..e.ot 00 he - So.z          -      .ets   0*  *teo-e.
- t,e,. ttrtao - CS taP .9 tot..
ts't.e - wteo rrs.Pte
otfet .,stttSi e.-t ito-.esoe. - - a toSs 2. t* It'. sot t
-                                                                                        oat.. Ct.o -. O.o.oott *..-e.    -    oet..ltt - reid   s-he  -   eo..t
ahe re-00.eto. eoe.e.-. a  ,...tt -   t is -.  00... 0. toteS roe. toe a.                     - 0   soii .o.tet. - -     -  tate. tet.                 .  tOt's isoite..
grt.owst stfssrtt.o  sq eq      0- n   of toot o-.-.t It,. a  #tee                          -   t5*  oet- t..    - t-. -  5.Us' -  -.            -   -  t.eIto
att       tfl.  0.         i40 to.*S                                                tOO 0.ie O.sii -   505.     et it..e.
...e:eet   ini.tottta                                                                       ie*.se -        -  se-ten -.         - oeot   i    509.9    tste -
po..tertn to       J1  - r.oSi .entotfl ro5eetr.n  Or. -           -                      -, e-bl.n Wi…i.  nO it4  soeso*s  C-Se-tOte-A
flee  .a-t         5   n  -   nO  tor    e.st  .  tsoettttt                                iii.. oe-t..iiaii.  tell,... -srt             -O.t       eO..et..r.o
ee..  ioolatt.se         t-oo     nitetits rae. Ce-rOe- *9 tOo                            .-esiot t.so..
tetet. t.       Ito. rn-Core a  tIfte ts.'.nU's ettOt               ..                       .. r t..rt,n. tso...so. e  Os: 0 t'sOi - ta.t           nO e.ei -
-'site t.Oe- frSil. etC *e15 it**  'sSit        stehiiOt   -  5?*t                       50te.etiietttt en ettO -'Cot.fl                        t.. - mflSib
me nose.... r.  frefltttp  pets Cr00 *te- trr   i.e                               -. i.e.. -s-nO. tot.        Site    .se.tisolo
teent's -. Ziqi t. totteit.. .ett. to teet see.1 nO sat tetti.
starting .e---..  ra rpo   te t                ,.   .n  -ot to      t-               toso.rta
etrs   -   or,.ttr. e   *s.tittt. tr.    se-                   seOpeis                   .sete4 -.re.l Ce-Si tetiso
.et..tes ro.Seststt  tO    t.  Ottt 5. 5          o..ettfte o.s-oito                      i. tnt. .o.e.et - o..tti  ne     *5- - Ieee. tact. nse nO *io
rae. ta  -   ,*tee    Sn, - 5         fled. at       -treetie. ts-ttttt                     ess.ttn   -  tin           is retOt tot - isrCr  -  tetseOt -
vase   a .inirat. ,s               *  esisren    lent  me                                  r-tre  to-. -en t,.rtetott.. -tnt t- In tao  tot ta-s.            0-ti
iesttt    peat,.  it sotit C fle?tt -. s   OCt10 roe. t. .sntt                              iooee 5      !e.t.d ia  a ree..ot t.ono   a -te  stotfliso. 9..-
nO st  to iS  4e.tt rote tOe         eer.e.,oro to slet ..os.   t tO                        ...ee-t -  eot oet.op.ot    -  a  seettla  ny ..ot i's eeriest
eib   -a- I. tee.. !t  ort.tr mfoIst..- stos             sotte-es. -  to                    tt-         0.0. it tsr   1   * .et- tn  Ofltitet OCtet    .
nOte to .00 *oe 5.-ted rOere. tertoot,. .0 tee tesstttoo is r   teer                     bo..scss    nOt -  Oct  Cote nO *tte  - 9e    -                . .sero
tts rae .0 Coettee et 0.51 itt,0 .e.... 'ers..-.  Seat                            aCe,. so   q..to   -         in, n.e. .r n-tonE triO. t,rOia.
'oCtettO   is- see. Sate. etO   to . .t                                 me-otto toe--st. e  - i: - or troso  t.ot -i.e tntr.tot    I.e
b..t  S  tie-    C boiba-ea.soteaI rerri tire  a  tel s.ntitet. tote                            t t. eact I.ores -  n-. .t.tt.Ee  OatS  -
Oe. 5n. sli.r it- 5   'nstCCOt.05         05 iOSimi .500..  ?                               .eeel to    tetrt
-.1 5 C.oeteit  t- 55 .e-   .. neesoej - *itts.ttso                            t..ortetet eso .tn.t  'teo.-e.tt .i oi.554e.t - i..Ctaet ttstttosta
elite  tosttt.t. t..eiOiOi t   t. i   ...st.iOt so is ibs -   C  eia                      *s.*a *e..Ot.Ot  t.eO.oes.* tt. -  seeS. COCo*    OttO  fote
rot es.ri.   *0e  te.t ii.., -re-t.o -  s.91 oe-. tOte           esee t                  to,..tS-tit. a  -        flSi  0 et -. etto. tsr.. are-.
S,or..Co iS  CO                                                                              1-toO.-. eo- ,.. - .o'n-.  nO  t,et.s  - *etet e..oo. esrel ret is
Csoob.t.te teette                                                                             oinee 0,4 oseeio  :osol. o...o4  Ci            .. et tee.CeO  se oe
5.. - On-ne, rerate- is- as's * t sea  S '09 's.t aes  Si                               o.s.eetttc 5.0.-I
tOt a       iCet  50-'. a.t Soot tsr..                                                  tO. t. lt.eoo. ist  . 5.., oSit - ttiefets oett.  sOt. te test o euiteS -
tist*  5   stetittt.-ot        . Iefls -  CtOes Ci C.             S set                    C 55fl5       *i tCt oeti e.55.!.t150 se-Sit 50000*.d OOi.
ottto1 iS. 15.0 at mt eeiO..
0.osloiie  tte t'e.e00  tOe-.e..i - Ott, --  i-,* oee.e.  e-..t.e'         1.             t.stee-flos
-  Os.tst. S   iq0O  501 -iCrO -   ott-it - *eo-ese    -0 55S sser                        tie. - ooo eees 'p5, iSoenO  ..eotottt - Pe-ssso.e toe. .e-ts
,salat-.. iloit. ,5t.       :0.2 0.00.                                                      ..ie te.t tot ton flse .*gttt roto. 5ot         e.ifl'Cr. sore-.. -
ieeslettee test Otto isetrest - CIteS .          r *ont. *s.so a  tottI silo                  ot st-se. e.et,be..
isesittiet .0 50'Idt-t. nat-ti. nO  :0.50-0:.                                        te.t,. 5.. or  .. toes tos-t 0.01 ttt.0t - t4* t.    a  ree.aro  Pa tate
5s.ieifloe j'pst,ti Ootr Seee-s.ii - oflo- . Cs.st 4t ott. totes .* stt.e                     Ci.ee- t t.. ts.e.e.t toOtS. Wi. its..eOeS Oi rtotetttr. sOtistes
rOOozoCt. Pot 100-00.   eto.?1. nO   ofi.                                                   e.iie      t-ttte.-es tO eet..ieieo COt n 0050 -    isoisorsotto -  reao
Ct.   Oiii  Se  (ts. ideesat t -        ! tie- - ott.. ,eo t.so.t . so4-                        tC      it et*e-t- to.. i.o i.eCCr Cs... ste Oot 00 .siie
ten' rpCtsOt.Cfl tbl* ;''. 54.5 -003 tCie.                                                  s..C ties .teitt  it.ontet.
Cr.- Sets tee Otto tta          - SieCet   ot   ee flooas.O  ..t CS O..nr                     e-...ie.c. I -   tssoe..o sos& Ott e.t . Si tsoot  rC t -  tiiee  is
espetottse; *t*  ton. nO  *e- ass.                                                         sestit: peet it -   tost re..tette-. esrIs CetteeSO  ft io.st iso
Ct..- S.O'seo.oiOt Coo. -    rw           si Ctttee.           otis Se. is                     5 ...ostetee nO  to       nO.. *nCOttOitso .9 Tb seos       te oti.rt.
Sr ostt ioss'otti r.etsg *O e   rn-rie.o  s.s              e-.or.t C..                     .so       - tt. ..tett  'sot rttoe-.   eC.sieiieoi .     tO. t.eCr
psittitis rn-s. sosoti. Pte.eess  Sietro e.ttio to itt,). 5t". 500                           ttt.botte a  -.Cs to Coe-.Oi i'e.iiot   e5000tS    tt  0  esptettot
Iso.!.                                                                                      soOlt .sOt. tOSOt   rCn-ii. t-. te.-ea's seorter         .  ii   tattoo-es
iSis itrt'it . otflt.r-O. neC.; 'tOnOsotCt - 00-tO' 5,r. -  - .efl-e.                       is -  Ott4i  t  ii  ro..t -  is.i   s.i tine  o -.
-  Ottoo.nsS    seso            Ci.sC Ci so! ten,  sor It setoesis.                     Zteen 0.5.-S  isio.s   no teen. .. tee. 0 taO  to e   se-St .0
ristra.                                                                                     it.tst. Cstf tottO,  Cmii. re-teSs   0Ci.t.s. is dna-is rita
teats iteorts. - 50s. tOOotCOe .i  roies so-tisi   *sr.ett    Ct nottt                        e-tts  ri-C.
- c-s .4-asti.. 5 fl irs.ttt i's - tt.stso a
rnert.-S'. e.o lois .t t-tit.-stttis to C t ntitoe sies-.        s oP                   lot's tOOts
Cot 5tSrit*W  5  000 see-i.' 5C       st tOosO. e Oo                                   o.o.;  .o-s*.e.*re.0.  . i.o..a  . to sir - ret's-s.. oo.tt's .t
tOneteiss -et tstrtttn  son- to   aseet 5. otit' no et-teqe                                 itt-Oss Ott *-to;5o-5 tot .5  attj   t0055 5. tosatoo.  5** tee.ro's
o:i eso. 'to*L.*tt see to *.ote. eseeits. 000
i.e  a's .-ot.;.                                                                                 .stCie.:e. :5..-  '0-- tot  C? teeo.
tttte..rOltt.stt i-s i.e             '5.t i5. t . -.iet .0 -'  set..                      itoet. 'Witoti   ra.. 505- *to.. -  0-st    oi is-CS  ttott' is-to.
saCS *C*550i't    -  Cli tsot -oath  105.  0...i - *5ttete.           nO                  !2±5..s.... - *.OOt t.Cto it t.istOO. i tit'O. SCOt 5  s
Osod 0-ti Or Ottee-    - beots.  tO.ittts  -.osr rttne .0CC t0.t.                           it sOt - so reo.s-t.o.     00e   55  eer.s          t Ott e.t tOot  Oto
t.Si rsst    .5 oteect ej.0 .00 thoSe 5   sot0t  ntriooto  b.C.                     'et.o.t. ttsfl.si 5 . e0..i itte  o .t.t's  C5'sOirti.    .eiseiortt. -t
-of in  .   a  at. es.-ts*C.  stroate rt'oOo.-st.t di esO  .tstit  C                        e[rt fl-'t. e0-e  -   to. -  Co-tOotS o  CflCt letet totte  i05ti tOtS
tot 500.
00004 - lotion .n r.sr its'. seigets. ntes.t5 .o -- Si
totC.                                                                                     itt i-i toit -          teit . i-OCt n.e  ost *I. - poettrlier ta to
ott - .sto s.ets ot t.Ose.eo  .so-sot .. -eq.t..-s..' - C-s.i.t *.                              .i.tt. .tios 05  ..Oft.i-4 -  t.to. nL.. 5. rents toisi *st5 -
s-otis ci so:at .1 -eq i   sotist .set:.r. ts ensore tts .etti Os.                            r.ostfst tt .s 5. 001. O.   Ctt- e.toiOttet .0 .91 sos- ttn-0i ito..5
is.  tosi Isote -oem in  .-..iCe tott.  ie-.e.ttes. tytt-  en                               tOes. *0,  Cot tier 0000.  Sen o.e tosst n  55 rent tiretta tetoC
eootitO. Ottt '-0ss  to etieC.  ott eqefrist .e.    am)  n. esot..                          -e-*:e-rtse 51.-so. tt ...-- .s t   rse.eo he..    is-to ire. *rs.t.  C
lettittot aCt it e.0  .fl.eOei's. -   ta   i5 Cistitotriot.   .tst9                        .0 e.tnts0 ott 5tfl sstt.oe. ts.tCseo
atto e.CO  titetst -  iOSi OCtet -  te,stotsetO.t node C - 0.5-005                        5. s..ot  S.-sOs0o  etts-Stl.t sO  ttttt - st  ii at 01 000 *esi to
ististi, stt CeCitO 0O.ttisitot soetesse.0*o  te.Oeos.    . e-it-tis.                       -- e.irtto  Se- ot,.siltte  tttui eat  bOot.
e.sttolitt.eilee--i eosototso.COt.sotoo t'0s0054 t.r oset
-     see.:i lesti. iqOl-OS. .0ttsst        tes.                                        ittSi  tit4.
-. -sUite ..Cito       lOoto ioO.t  roe otst…           tooteof .0 ist .s,t                   r7r7tTs.o..  .-e. ..ro  to toO  eo..i C..C  - hOot set by to test
-t s.itr 50 500 r  405. tOt steel. st tO  is  ett'O  a 00.00.  -                           -..-t.-ost* it-st 3' -.ees  ,soo.o.tz*'eo- -sot  esi estis-ot tAt ,eO.-es- .1
tttoe..rso  OP - C     .1 tstoi Storets tot tOo -   Zt .  .0 t..  -t
role- eietfl%  sCOt -. 1.' Cr.- .05:. . ate-i tisOrio.  TbesC                           Alseost 0.  *p4iq
t0.Ottt   5. te   ts  tOte- -.i .0 gee -  mItt risoett -. 5' sen                          '0- ..i ..-t.o o 500550 - - .00 eiOOttCto   s.5i0  - n.e-it. Seoul. Cot
-, Semi ristOis - -  Coei   'Or to. e-tis*  iioi.e.E  5 50.  0  5                           ..e.4t -  t-t.st.'st.5  st.Ot..ts..O5e  s.C....
SirS   tto rttii    5o  tOobs.tt. 50,0 -   is.  to...                                     t-- te.tO  Ott. sto roo.-t'.  s-.n  se.I .'It st  -.ettet - oite s-i .0000 -
tt  0tt0 .tstott so..eio tie- stnt s.rS Jsle. - teotots osreb. .t i..t                      cs-ret tso..t.  t-   loot Is toot              lest! nlse o.ttto0
isetnO  riO    tnss -    ..  to see- p.r 04. ;toto.'   0! eo  0t                           o..tt -t.oo.5. Ctoo..o-e tot .5.. e..i.tttto  soiseS ist.tisit. to -
tao.                                                                                        si P..tO.o5o.
Odro t.e   or' tost. CeO. tte, t.oeatt -   s..si 4so050 p.- s-tests-st is                   it.tseSOt Ct'.  so its-O's s--n  to..i  'Si 100  OftiCi - or5  tot t.i55  -
no trot. :-. s-te.  Cs too ICr5 is tots OS cesi. P    sC seeOtsrist                         t.sroI 001 tt -  i'tsoo-o too-a  5.05    one tOtet    ee.tsCs i.e tent.
.s.eiite. lois  ete.o. .e.- Itt. t..:.-  5,t. t  e.or .55  loSt.                          r.-ts.sto  i.-  stt-...-t.O.  -n. :e  1 tO   0'te.4 ee   is. ot.i.t
tOt. ttttAtSie-0* .toiCt.oo -55. sO tout teotre.OiOOt.
cot SO                                                                                        oo..oo0r..e..ot...soo...…                    ?et-.OoOlSiitssii-ot'o
U1 *stoflsee.stti ott. 0 sot-.! - o.t.55 e.r t .oero .o tito e.n. .-..rot- - to roe..:.- e'.o soA .-.mot 5 otto. sotot te
a tttto 50.t itt' a,) -so: 4o,
sft t,tottts tto no tOosos..0! - Coot - Oit ot tetot.. .Oe
si tee eec teso     tin st0t.  te0* t0-s oet    ' 45.0,
.eotttesstoiteetbstoe,.so..1.ose.S -t.Oei Sit- os.if.t55-
tar       enris S i-toot. .r   so. is-s., en t -pe.--i. .r.sst  -. *sPO                                                           -.'s..s. -  *O. tot- Ott ot. 5 *ttsts,so
Sue esrrts (teelsir. ?teOOoO ..sise.e oOooi. - sOiseosO tot
ooesoi-tst  . Us s i -et -iote.te 5.-otto:... sit' tOo. Oo
sietOt-e sosiot eCo-On-t .1 tet - issr..i.n tot-e55.i.. to -
siOe. 0000 C i-itt. ts.stOte 0.stOo..C t e-ota 5-tt nrC ttos
Cr50. 0000 no So t-s-tittepot - ottog or- 0:, .en...r:o s--ott
See. 5. isisi eteso rre.on.lr etOts. eoott into 0-ta so O.o..tiO -
.e.Si. -  to.       Ostt -      no  t - Cr-tot t U toe .roet t ste,. ron  .1
ire too to is- flirt OS tao tot nisi tes.tO.
OsOCtOi*t.,s tiSe-ot r5o.-.st .0 toeettotso to*I scoot at e.i55
-     i ot sos.1- trot. :0 ..t.O. t   eoi.St .0.055 t, .too-tO *tOOOtC
ier.e.'ne-t oC rir t.srei toe e..tCS ten, tie 0t5 ttttC0.i -o toe Ofi
tine 'ette.ie Oitisosi. .ttr.eettts.t tretsi. Ot
5   tnOe-atii -    iototist  sfeten  00 to.       - it! ortot-.
.tot roe into I t.Ottts..



- 25 -
MI I
Page4 'of 5
ECONOMIC IIIDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOIUMS (US$ Iln)                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTEH
1983                  (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)         VY1977-82       1983
GNP at Market Prices 1/             4179                    5             2
GDP at Market Prices                3773                    5            2
Gross Domestic Investments          1107                   18          -11
Gross National Savings               503                    2             5
Exports of GNFS                      309                   15          -14
Imports of GNFS                     2164                    8          -12
OUJPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ Min      Z    Thousand        Z        _          Z
Agriculture             820      32         830       69         988       47
Industry                206       8         54         5        3815      182
Services              1492       60        318        26        4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE     2518      100       1202       100        2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Man)
Z of GNP
1978179  1979/80  1981   1982   1983      1983
Current Receipts                2161     2755   3277   3692   5302        28
Current Expenditure             1847     2531   3253   5181   5068        27
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314       224      24  -1489    236        1
Cavital Expenditure             2618     2492   3807   4321   3803        20
Extrabudgetary Expenditure         -      523    788   2317   2090        11
Overall Deficit                  848     2333   2943   5262   4507        26
External Assistance, Net        1904      976   2437   2865   1752         9
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-YRls Million Outstanding End Period -
1980      1981     1982      1983
Money Supply                      9180       9905    12519    15967
Domestic Credit                   4956      7273    11834    15980
Of which:
Claims on Govern=ent           (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361)
Claims on Private Sector       (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3619)
- Percentages
1979/80   198l1   982       1983
Money Supply as 2 of GNP             63        66      75       85
Armual Increase in;
Money Supply                     16        8       26       28
Consumer Price Index             11        5        3        5
1/  Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



-26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (USt M1n)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983
Exports of Goods, fob                3      13      10      5     10
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1967  -1796
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1962  -1786
Non Factor Services, net           -36     -21    -51    -37    -48
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924   1103
Balance on Current Account        -450    -839  -1001  -1075   -731
H & LT Capital, net                416     600    542    635    386
Official Grants                  312     148    337    445    186
Official Loans, net 1/           104     452    205    190    200
Disbursements                 (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (224)
Repayments                    (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-42)  (-24)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       194     128    198      76    136
Increase in Reserves (-)          -160     ill   261    364    209
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1983) 21
(USt million)               1983
Total Outstanding            2356         Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1568         Disbursed                    2.7
1I/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transferb included in denominator.
EMIDB
June 1984



2 27 -
ANNE  II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984) 1/
Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrover               Purpose                   IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                       94.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0          0.6
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sansa Water Supply II            10.0        2.2
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                     11.5       3.7
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II            10.5        1.7
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution               10.0        2.7
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III           15.0       12.0
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                    10.0        2.3
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamaar Water Supply    12.0        11.7
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV             5.5        1.7
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Developmnt             17.0        9.8
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II         17.0 2/    5.5 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification         12.0        1.6
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development           12.0       4.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development          15.0        9.6
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                     12.0        7.7
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.  2.0           1.1
1259   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development   6.0          3.2
1267   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                       7.0        4.2
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                           10.5        7.3
1308   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit               8.0        7.4
1340   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Education V                      1t.0        9.2
1361   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Power III                        19.0       17.5
1413   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Highways V                       13.0       12.0
1441   1984 Yemen Arab Republic Urban II                         12.0       11.5
1453 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Central Highlands Ag. Devt.       8.0        7.8
1470 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Education VI                     10.0        9.5
1484 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Geothermal Exploration           13.0      12.3
Total                                               387.6
of which has been repaid                            0.7
Total now held by IDA                               386.9
Total undisbursed                                             179.8
1/  The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all BankflIDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. lhe dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products        3.15      -     3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983    Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries   3.25      0.60   3.85
Total Gross Commitments                         6.40      0.60   7.00
less cancellations, terminations,             2.29       -     2.29
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held by IFC               4.11      0.60   4.71
Total Disbursed                                 0.86      0.20   1.06
Total Undisbursed                                3.25     0.40   3.65
NOTE:   An investment loan of $5.4 million to the National Company for
Vegetable Oil and Ghee Industries was approved on September 11,
1984; it is not yet signed.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of *200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management(administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about ¢200,000, *300,000 and *425,000.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (YAR)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project;   4 months
(b)  Appraisal mission;               July 1984
(c)  Negotiationsz                    January 23-24, 1985
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness;   August 31, 1985
II. Specila IDA ImpUlementation Actions
1.  IDA assistance in the recruitment of experts and placement of
trainees overseas (para. 75), and
2.   Close IDA involvement in advising on proposed new procedures
and monitoring project performance (para. 75).
III. Special Conditions
None



Yemn Arab RenubilC
Technical Assg4tanca Pralmet
firgani2atign Chart af ih
Central Plinnina Dr onigakik
Minister of Developent
*                         - - - - - - - -  I-DeutyI
Assistant Deputy-
ChajLrnn
_ .    _             _ _ _ ; _ _ _ _ _ _ _       - LLIJ                  -   _   _ .   _- I- -   - - - - - - - -
General        tProjects 11     _Planning &               Follow-up           tega; Affairs        -Technical      _liatstistics        D ata BWank     lAdm 1nstra-
QQRarVrent= 3       oans&I                                   ollo Rsuarch  and   and Public          Cooperatlon                          & Central         tion and
Innnstm nt   l                       .laf    I  t   I    I cnrnfgg=s             I  armatain        Ftnanc
QiauirLmnta       Project           National          - Investient Budget    - Legal Affairs         Technical        - Production    - Computins        - Accounts
- Preparation    - Planning and                                                   - Assisstance
A Evaluation      Progranming      - Loan Accounts          - Exoepttons                            - National       - Oocuftnta-      _ Persomnel    w
Bilateral          Accounts         tion              Affairs       o
_ Project           Sectoral and    - Follow-up               - Public              Cooperation         * Finncial
Programing    - Resional                                      Relations           and Coordina-                        Print Shop        Adini-
Planning                                                        tion Councils   - Foreign                            - strative
Trade                              Affairs
- Human Resources                                               - Training,
Planning                                                        Scholarships       nnst1c                              Secre-
and Con-           Trade,                           - tarial  ,
- Research and                                                    feretces         - Transport                           A rchives
Studies                                                                            Comn1ica-
tions
- Social
Statistics
Population
- Studies
Center
---  - - -functional responsibility
C.-



- 31 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 6
Development Planning in the Yemen Arab Republic
The Central Planning Organization
Background
1.       The interest in national planning in YAR developed almost immediately
following the 1962 revolution which started the country on its path away from
its medieval isolation under the Imamate toward the development of a modern
state. A rudimentary planning function was initially entrusted to the Ministry
of Economy in 1963. Three years later, a High Council for Construction and
Development was decreed, and in 1968, a High Planning Council-a ministerial
planning commission--which was supported by a Technical Office. These early
arrangements, however, remained essentially inoperative due to the domestic
political turmoil that characterized the country in the 1960s. The planning
that was undertaken was confined to some limited short-term objectives and the
preparation of individual projects.
The Central Planning Organization
2.       With the stabilization of political conditions and the growing aware-
ness of the need for better institutional arrangements for planning, the Cen-
tral Planning Organization (CPO) was established in 1972. The High Planning
Council 1/ maintained its responsibility for charting the country's long-term
economic and social objectives and for instituting the broad elements of the
policy framework required to meet these objectives. At the technical level,
the CPO was gradually built up with the support of a team of expatriate
advisors financed by the World Bank (through two grants) and the Kuwait
Fund. 2/ UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany also provided technical
assistance. The early days were characterized by the excitement of building a
new institution which was to play a central role in the development of modern
Yemen. Therefore, a number of qualified Yemeni graduates were induced to join
the organization and were trained in planning techniques.
3.       Structure.  From the beginning, CPO was intended to have a special
status. Its Chairman was given a cabinet rank as Minister of Development and
it was closely associated with the Office of the Prime Minister. It soon
started acting and was viewed as a "super ministry" that not only coordinated
the activities of the main economic ministries and agencies but played a
central role in defining their programs and approving many of their activities.
1  This council is chaired by the Prime Minister and includes the Minister
of Development and Chairman of CPO (as its Deputy Chairman), and the
Ministers of Finance, Economy and Industry, Agriculture and Fisheries,
and Supply and Trade.
2/ Kuwait Fund for Economic and Social Development (KFESD).



- 32 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 6
4.       Initially, CPO consisted of five departments (planning, projects,
foreign aid, statistics, and administration) that reported directly to its
Deputy Chairman and, through him, to the Chairman. Since then, a number of
positions and departments have been created, mainly by splitting the original
Projects Department. It now has an Assistant Deputy Chairman and consists of
eight General Departments; Projects and Loans; Technical Cooperation and
Conferences; Follow-up and Investment Budget; Legal Affairs and Public Rela-
tions; Planning and Research; Statistics; Data Bank and Central Information;
and Administration and Finance. I/
Functions
5.       The statutory functions of CPO are wide ranging and exhaustive.  The
main functions can be subsumed under the following broad categories:
(i) planning and budgeting
- preparation of medium-term national economic development
plans;
- preparation of annual national economic development plans;
- preparation and submission to the Ministry of Finance of
chapters four and five of the budget dealing with capital
expenditures and associated recurrent expenIi*ures, respec-
tively;
(ii) proiect-related
- review and evaluation of project proposals for approval
before their inclusion in the plan or budget;
- monitoring of project development and implementation;
- coordinating and finalizing financing arrangements for all
development projects;
- approval of financial aid agreements related to projects with
all multilateral and bilateral sources;
- approval of all disbursements against all such financial aid
agreements;
- approval of all contracts (civil works, consultants, etc.)
related to all foreign assisted projects;
1/ An organigram of CPO is presented in Annex IV.



- 33 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 6
- approval of all requests for training to be financed under such
projects;
(iii) monitoring and evaluation
- follow-up and evaluation of plan implementation (physical and
financial);
- monitoring and evaluation of the external debt situation;
(iv) statistics/data processing
- preparation, processing and publication of a wide range of statis-
tics, including national accounts, demographic data, production,
financial, balance of payments and trade accounts; and
- conducting economic and demographic surveys (e.g., household
budgets, fertility, etc.)
6.       The Planning and Budgeting Process.  The planning process in YAR has
been, and is likely to continue to be, in a state of continuous evolution.
As experience is gained and a larger number of qualified Yemenis become
available, the process becomes more involved and sophisticated. At present,
the main steps involved in the preparation of medium-term plans are the
following:
- The High Planning Council, on the basis of draft proposals
prepared by CPO, agrees on the broad strategic orientation that
the Plan should adopt.
- CPO issues guidelines to line ministries/agencies outlining the
format and main categories to be addressed by these agencies'
submissions to CPO. These submissions are expected to in-
clude: a review by the agency concerned of achievements, in
relation to targets, during the previous plan period; a pro-
posed sectoral strategy and a set of supporting policy measures
for the plan under consideration, in line with the Plan's
overall strategic orientations as approved by the High Planning
Council; projections for the plan period of sectoral targets
regarding such aggregates as production, value added, employ-
ment, etc.; and a proposed investment program consisting of
ongoing and new projects and specifying, for each project, some
key features (essentially in a project card), including esti-
mates of capital and recurrent costs (broken down into foreign
and local components) for the plan period.



- 34 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 6
In some cases, agency submissions are either incomplete or
totally unavailable, in which case CPO drafts the relevant
chapter or completes it.
At this stage the agency submissions are essentially uncon-
strained as far as the size of the proposed investment program
is concerned.
- While the agencies are preparing their submissions, CPO, in
coordination with the Central Bank of Yemen and the Ministry of
Finance, prepares a first-round macroeconomic framework for the
plan which includes projections of production, consumption,
savings, balance of payments, budgetary position, etc. This
framework provides the total amount of financiiag available to
support any proposed investment program and anticipated plan
expenditures in general.
- Concurrently, and on the basis of the broad strategy approved
by the High Planning Council, CPO prepares a draft chapter on
the plan's overall strategy and main policy framework.
- Once the agency submissions become available, they are dis-
cussed individually in technical committees that include CPO,
the Ministry of Finance and the agency concerned. Both the
General Departments of Planning and of Projec;s of CPO are
represented in these discussions; the first is primarily con-
cerned with matters of sectoral strategy, sectoral projections
and overall sectoral financing requirements, the latter with
the details of the proposed project portfolio. The Ministry of
Finance is concerned with the financial aspects of the proposed
program.
- On the basis of the discussions with line agencies, an initial
draft plan takes shape and goes through a number of iterations
to ensure mutual consistency with agency submissions and CPO
views, and internal consistency among the components of the
plan document. In case of conflict between CPO, the Ministry
of Finance or the line agency, an attempt is made by the
Development Committee 1/ of the Cabinet to resolve such a
conflict. In case of further escalation, conflicts are
ultimately resolved by the High Planning Council headed by the
Prime Minister.
1/ A Cabinet working committee headed by the Minister of Development and
including the Min-sters of Finance, Economy and Industry, Trade and
Supply, Agriculture, Electricity and Water, Information, Youth and the
Chairman of the Yemen Minerals and Oil Resources Corporation.



- 35 -
Annex V
Page 5 of 6
- Once a draft plan is agreed upon by the High Planning Council,
it is submitted for approval to the Cabinet and, subsequently,
to the People's Assembly.
7.       Thus, the main links in the medium-term planning process is between
CPO and the line agencies, in the presence of, but not with the active inter-
vention, of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The link essentially tries to
establish a conveyance of views regarding sectoral strategies and policies and
the investment program. Within CPO, the main actor during the plan prepara-
tion exercise is the Planning General Department and the main internal inter-
action is with the Projects General Department which is vested with the func-
tion of reviewing the evaluation of project proposals, and the Follow-up
Department which would have monitored and evaluated the implementation of the
previous plan.
8.       The annual budgeting process is similar to the medium-term planning
process except that the Ministry of Finance instead of CPO plays the lead role
and the scope of the exercise is more limited since it is confined to the
public sector and public finances. As with the plan preparation process, the
budget preparation process starts with the issuance of guidelines, this time
from the Ministry oE Finance, to line agencies.  The emphasis in this case,
however, is not so much on sectoral strategies and policies and the consis-
tency of the public finances with the macroeconomic framework, as on detailed
expenditures requirements for the single year in question and the means of
financing such expenditures. The impact of the budget on the rest of the
economy, or the effect of the rest of the economy on the budget, i.e., the
macro/budgetary link, has, until recently, been absent; but this is und.r-
standable, given the limited experience in planning and budgeting in YAR.
9.       Again, as with the planning process, submissions by line agencies to
MOF are discussed in technical budgetary committees including representatives
from MOF, CPO and the line agency concerned. If conflicts arise, they are
escalated for resolution by the High Budget Committee, ehaired by the Minister
of Finance and including the Minister of Development and two other ministers
on a rotation basis.
Project Review Process
10.      A very important and integral part of both planning and budgeting is
the preparation, evaluation and approval of projects to 'e included in the
plan/budget. Typically, the treatment of projects differs depending on their
size which falls into one of three loosely defined categories: large (cost
greater than YRls 40 million), medium (roughly between  MRls 10 and 40 mil-
lion), and small (Less than YRls 10 million).
11.      Project proposals are normally initiated in the line agencies.  For
the large projects which typically benefit from assistance from multilateral
or bilateral aid donors, assistance from these donors often takes place at the



- 36 -
Annex V
Page 6 of 6
project identification stage and the Government relies on the donors' own
project evaluation cycles for its own evaluation. As the main interlocutor
in YAR for these donors, CPO plays a central role in the choice of projects
to be assisted by the various donors. The Projects an" Loans General Depart-
ment is responsible for performing this role, but the Deputy Chairman and
Chairman of CPO take a very active interest in this matter.  Feasibility
studies for such projects are normally required by the Government and the aid
donors alike.  Such studies, which are usually carried out by external con-
sultants, are reviewed for the Government by the line agency concerned and
the Projects General Department of CPO. Depending on the importance of the
project, it may also be reviewed by the Development Committee of the Cabinet
before presentation for the Cabinet's approval and subsequent presentation
for the Assembly's approval before it is signed by the President. The vehicle
normally used for this process is the approval of loan/credit agreements with
exteraal financiers assisting in the financing of the project. For medium-
sized projects, normally financed exclusively from local sources, evaluation
studies are also required before including them in the budget. These couid
take the form of full feasibility studies carried out by external consultants
or the line agency concerned, or more limited studies involving a modest
analysis of costs and benefits.  The small projects, also referred to some-
times as 'local initiative projects", are usually approved on a common sense
rule-of-thumb basis with very limited requirements for analysis.
12.      The primary responsibility for preparation of the investment budget,
and correspondingly for the inclusion of any project in that budget, lies
with CPO. The role of CPO in preparing the annual investment budget has not
yet been fully developed and formalized but is at present the subject of
discussions between CPO and NOF. However, the current participation of CPO
in the budget preparation process has ensured that, by and large, projects
considered for approval and inclusion in the budget originate in the
medium-term plan and, therefore, are consistent with the sectoral and broad
economic development strategies.
13.      Following agreement on the inclusion of a project in the plan, the
initiative for the further development of the project and its consideration
for inclusion in the budget in a particular year lies, generally, with the
line agency. The latter step requires the agreement of both the Ministry of
Finance and the CPO during the budget preparation process; otherwise, respon-
sibility for project review and approval lies with the CPO, which includes
review by CPO of developed project proposals, tender and contract proposals,
and post-contract project monitoring, including approval of all expenditures
related to the project. Agreement to acceptance of tender is subject to the
approval of the High Tender Committee, while agreement to proposed contracts
is subject to the advices of the General Department of Legal Affairs.



Yamn rab Renublit
Taehnleal Auslstaaiea Pralact
Protect !fim1mluntatiflf ihj33MDr o
Data Bank__ ___                                                                                                                                 ___ _
Senior Specialist (1)                                                                      -                                               2 yeatS
Technical Specialists (2)                                                                                                                  2 years each
Short-term Training
- Group I  (2)                                                                                                                           6 months each
- Group 2  (2)                                                                                                                           6 months each
- Group 3  (2)                                                                                                                           6 mnths each
- Group 4  (2)                                                                                                                           6 months each
- Group S  (2)                                                                                                                           G months each
- Group 6  (2)                                                                                                                           6 months each
Fellowship Program
- Group I  (3)                                                                                                                           2 years each
- Group 2  (2)                                                                                                                           2 years each         w
- Group 3  (2)                                                               .   .                         _                             2 years each          4
Overseas Management rrainin                                                                                                                12 months
Plannina and Research
Short-term Training
- Group 1 (2)                                                                                                                            3 months each
- Group 2  (2)                                                                                                                           3 months each
Prolects
Cost Specialist  (1)                                                                                                                       2 years
Short-term Training
- Group I  (2)                                                                                                                           3 months each
- Group 2  (2)                                                                                                                           3 months each
Leaal  ffairs
Contract Specialist  (1)                                                                     _                                             2 years
Short-ternm Training
- Group I  (3)                                                                                                                           1-3 onths per   tJ
- Group 2  (2)                                                                                                                           trainee



Follow-Up
IDA Specialist  '                                                          _ -                                   l                     l   years
Short-term Training
- Group 1 (2)                                                                                                                           3 months each
- Group 2 (2)                                                                                                                            3 months each
I,chnical Cogneration
TA Specialist                                                                                _                                             2 years
Short-term Training (12)                                                                                                                   I I month each
General
Hanagemcnt Consultants                                                                                                                     6 months
Unspecifiod Consultants                                      __       --_ _                                                                6 months
Short-term Training
- Hanagement      (8)                                                                                                                    I month each
- Administration (4)                                       _                                                                             1 month each
EouiL mnt PrgeurenLt
1/ Provided on a grant basis by
IDA outside of the project
Board Presentation 3/85
Project Cmpletlion 6/89
_ . . _ . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-, , 
N| c



- 39 -
Annex VII
Yemen Arab Republic
Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
USs '000
FY           QUARTER          QUARTERLY         CUMULATIVE
1986              1               400                 400
2               800               1,200
3               300               1,500
4               400               1,900
1987              1               300               2,200
2               300               2,500
3               300               2,800
4               300               3,100
1988              1               350               3,450
2               350               3,800
3               350               4,150
4               350               4,500
1989              1                50               4,550
2                50               4,600
3                50               4,650
4                50               4,700



- 40 -
Annex VIII(a)
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Cost Specialist for the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
Terms of Reference
1.       The cost specialist will be one of a number of specialists to be
appointed under an IDA-assisted Technical Assistance Project aimed at
strengthening the capabilities of the Central Planning Organization (CPO).
2.       The CPO is the principal economic planning organ of the country
and has among its tasks, the main responsibility, in coordination with
other ministries and agencies, for preparing, monitoring, follow-up and
evaluation of economic plans and annual investment programs; evaluating,
approving and monitoring all investment projects; coordinating and
finalizing the financing arrangements for development projects; approving
all capital expenditures; and preparing and publishing national statistics.
3.       The individual technical ministries/agencies are responsible for
the preparation of feasibility studies as a basis for initial project
approval by the CPO, and for the subsequent project development and
implementation of approved projects. Project evaluation, approval and
monitoring by the CPO is the responsibility of the General Department of
Projects and Loans (GDPL). The GDPL is at present receiving technical
assistance from two economists funded by the Federal Republic of Germany in
the economic evaluation of projects. However, the Department lacks
expertise in developing and applying cost estimating and control techniques
as an input to economic evaluation and subsequent project monitoring.
4.       The cost specialist will be required to assist and train
designated staff in the GDPL in:
(i) developing and applying techniques and -riteria for a cost
estimating and control system related to evaluation,
approval and monitoring of public sector investment
projects;
(ii) advising the technical ministries/agencies on streamlining,
and standardizing to the extent possible, the
project-related cost data to be submitted to the CPO at the
various stages of the project cycle;
(iii)  establishing a cost data bank as a basis for cost
estimating and subsequent review and approval of projects;
(iv) establishing a system of reporting to the General Depart-
ment of Follow-up and Investment Budget on cost and
physical progress of projects;



- 41 -
Annex VIII(a)
Page 2 of 5
(v) coordinating with the General Department of Follow-up and
Investment Budget and the Generai Department of Planning
and Research in forward programming of project expenditures
and related updating of the five-year public investment
plan as a basis for decisions on annual programs; and
(vi)  coordinating with the General Department of Legal Affairs
and Public Relations, which will have the advice and
assistance of a contracts specialist, in identifying
procurement issues and developing and applying improved
procurement practices.
5.       The cost specialist will also be required to work with other staff
in identifying and advising on measures to improve coordination and
complemen:arity between the key General Departments of the CPO, and in
establishing a strong working relationship with other ministries.
6.       At least three qualified national staff members will be designated
to work directly with the cost specialist. To ensure that the training of
national staff is adequately addressed, the cost specialist will be required
to develop a training plan, to include, as a complement to on-the-job
training, periodic seminars/workshops. Such seminars/workshops would
typically be of one day's duration, at not more than three-month intervals,
and include a review of progress to date and planned action for the follow-
ing three months. The arrangements for the seminars/workshops should ensure
the involvement of the designated national staff members in the presenta-
tion of selected topics. Following each seminar/workshop the cost special-
ist should prepare written guidelines as a basis for the subsequent actions.
7.       The duration of the contract will be for two years, subject to
three months notice of termination in writing within the period of the
contract, should the performance of the specialists not prove satisfactory.
8.       The specialist will be required to provide CPO, copy to IDA, a
full progress report on his activities and achievements every six months
from the time of commencement of his employment. In addition, he will
produce a final progress report covering the full pe-:od of his employment.
9.       A review of progress will be undertaken every six months, follow-
ing receipt of the specialist's report, with the participation of the Deputy
Chairman of the CPO, the Director-General of the GDPL, the designated na-
tional staff, the specialist, and IDA. The review will take into account
the anticipated phased completion of activities as set out in the attached
schedule. The schedule is approximate only. It will be interpreted
flexibly and may be modified as circumstances warrant. The major consid-
eration in assessing performance, however, will be the degree of progress



- 42 -
Annex VIII(a)
Page 3 of 5
in the training of the national staff, including the degree to which the
necessary transferance of expertise is being achieved during the duration
of the specialist's assignment.
10.      The qualifications required for the appointment are as follows;
(a)    Good knowledge of Arabic (spoken and written);
(b)    Approved university degree-level qualification in civil
engineering or in chartered quantity surveying;
(c)    Wide experience in the development and use of cost esti-
mating, including criteria for varying project types--
buildings, infrastructure, aud services-and in the appli-
cation of cost control systems;
(d)    An ability and willingness to work closely with national
staff and other expatriate specialists; and
(e)    An ability and necessary experience to train national staff
on-the-job, to identify training needs, and to formulate
proposals for appropriate formal and informal training.



- 43 -
Annex VIII(a)
Attachment
Page 4 of 5
Schedule of Tasks
Stage I - 6 months
With GDPL staff:
-  listing the types of projects to be processed;
-  consulting with other specialists on current process of econo-
mic evaluation of projects and determining cost data require-
ments as input to evaluation;
-  consulting with technical ministries on current problems/delays
in review process-within the technical ministries and in CPO;
-  determining the respective roles of the CPO and the technical
ministries in project processing and monitoring;
-  framing procedures for project cost processing by CPO from
feasibility study stage to contract award stage, and subsequent
post-contract monitoring stage;
-  developing a cost estimating and control system;
-  developing standardized cost reporting forms-cost plan, cost
checks, cost analysis and post-contract cost reporting;
-  establishing a system of reporting to the General Department of
Follow-up and Investment Budget on cost and physical progress
of projects.
Note:    Systems and procedures should be introduced in a simplified form
appropriate to the circumstances and institutional capabilities in Yemen,
but designed for refinement and expansion as capabilities are developed.
Stage II - 6 months
It is expected that through their involvement with the cost
specialist in the develonment of the cost system and procedures, the
designated counterparc national staff would be familiar with the rationale
and methodologies involved a' the end of Stage I. The primary task of the
cost specialist during Stage II will be to provide on-the-job training and
backstopping to the national staff in the application of the cost control
system and procedures, and, in addition, to assist the GDPL;



-44 -
Annex VIII(a)
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
- in developing a Cost Data Bank, including the mechanisms for
expanding and updating the data bank.
- advising the technical ministries on the project-related cost
data and the analysis of such data required as an input to the
cost control system and the development of the data bank.
- in coordination with the General Department of Legal Affairs
and the expatriate contracts advisor, in identifying procure-
ment issues and in initiating more effective procurement prac-
tices.
Stage III - 6 months
It is expected that at the end of Stage II new cost estimating and
control system will be operational, and national staff will have developed
a capability in the application of the cost control system and procedures,
but with a continuing need for on-the-job training and backstopping by the
cost specialist to cope with the variety of projects to be dealt with by
the CPO. The cost specialist, in addition to performing this primary
function, will also assist the GDPL in:
(i) advising the technical ministries in developing more effec-
tive cost planning and control procedures;
(ii) implementing more effective procurement practices throughout
the public sector;
(iii) developing and expanding the cost data bark.
Stage IV - 6 months
This stage will be one of consolidation, with training and back-
stopping by the cost specialist continuing but on the basis that his
services will be phased out and the national staff will have the capability
to operate the established system and procedures at the end of this final
stage.
Note;    Throughout all stages the cost specialist will be expected to
cooperate with national staff and other expatriate specialists in advising
on measures to improve coordination and complementarity between the General
Departments of CPO and between CPO and other agencies.



- 45 -
Annex VIII(b)
Page 1 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Contract Specialist for the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
Terms of Reference
1.       The contract specialist will be one of a number of specialists to be
appointed under an IDA-assisted Technical Assistance Proiect aimed at
strengthening the capabilities of the Central Planning Organization (CPO).
2.       The CPO is the principal economic planning organ of the country and
has among its tasks, the main responsibility, in coordination with other
ministries and agencies, for preparing, monitoring, follow up and evaluation
of economic plans and annual investment programs; evaluating, approving and
monitoring all investment projects; coordinating and finalizing the financing
arrangements for development projects; approving all capital expenditures; and
preparing and publishing national statistics.
3.       The Legal Department of the General Department for Legal Affairs and
Public Relations (GDLAPR) in the CPO has a wide variety of functions (see
attachment) which include: reviewing and offering legal opinions on agreements
and contracts with construction firms and suppliers, bilateral and interna-
tional agencies, and agreements related to technical, economic, cultural and
commercial cooperation. While staffed with qualified personnel, the Legal
Department does not have the experience or expertise to address effectively
the increased volume and complexity of issues arising in the review of agree-
ments and contracts, as well as the complexity of procurement issues.
4.       The contract specialist will be required to provide advice, training
and backstopping to designated staff of the Legal Department in reviewing
tender and contract documentation, and in developing aad applying improved
documentation and procurement procedures. In this context, working closely
with the national staff and providing on-the-job training to such staff, he
will be engaged in the following tasks:
Stage A - About 6 Months
(a) Identifying legal and other provisions which govern tender and
contract documentation.
(b) Reviewing such documentation used by public agencies in YAR and
classifying, by type 1/ and by agency or group of agencies,
1/   Civil works, furniture and equipment and engineering/architectural
consultants, separately for infrastructure, buildings and services
contracts.



- 46 -
Annex VIII(b)
Page 2 of 6
those clauses which have common application and those in which
there are significant variations between agencies.
(c)  Reviewing available data on procurement issues and their causes
and carrying out such further analysis as may be deemed necessary
as a basis for recommendations on improved procurement practices.
(d) Specifically, identifying problems and weaknesses in the design
and application of tender and contract documentation by public
agencies.
(e) Advising on improved procedures for reviewing tender and con-
tract documentation and providing guidelines for national staff.
Stage B - About 6 Months
(f) Taking account of the findings during stage A and in the light
of good international procurement practices  preparing draft
standard tender and contract documentation_7appropriate to:
i)  Local competitive bidding and international competitive
bidding;
(ii)  Varying types of contracts as referred to in the footnote
on the previous page; 1/
Ciii)  Special agency requirements i.e. specifying any tender
procedures or clauses which may be deemed to have special
application to individual or categories of agencies (e.g.
quasi-commercial agencies).
(g) Providing support and advice to the Legal Department in seeking
views, including those of IDA, on the proposed draft documenta-
tion, and in discussions with concerned bodies, including the
High Tender Committee, and public agencies concerned in the
application of the proposed new documentation.
(h) Finalizing documentation, taking account of views received.
1/ Documentation should be prepared in English for translation into Arabic by
Government, and reviewed by specialist.



- 47 -
Annex VIII(b)
Page 3 of 6
Stage C - 12 Months
(i)  Advising concerned public agencies in the application of the new
documentation and related improved procurement practices.
(j) Arranging procurement seminars for concerned staff in the Legal
Department and in other public agencies.
(k) Continuing on-the-job training and backstopping of staff in the
Legal Department in identifying and addressing any ongoing pro-
curement issues and problems, and in the application of the
tender and contract documentation.
(1)  Collaborating with national staff in advising the High Tender
Committee on tender and contract issues.
5.       The contract specialist will be required to support the Legal Depart-
ment in coordinating closely with the General Department of Projects and Loans
(and vith an expatriate cost specialist who will be appointed to advise that
General Department), in identifying procurement issues, and in developing
improved tender and contract documentation and procurement procedures. The
contract specialist will also be required to work with other expatriate staff
in identifying and advising on measures to improve coordination and complemen-
tarity between the key General Departments of the CPO, and in establishing a
strong working relationship with other ministries.
6.       At least three qualified national staff members will be designated to
work directly with the contract specialist.  To ensure that the training of
nationals is adequately addressed, the contract specialist will be required to
develop a training plan, to include, as a complement to on-the-job training,
periodic seminars/workshops. Such seminars/workshops would typically be of
one day's duration, at not more than three-month intervals, and include a
review of progress to date and planned action for the following three months.
The arrangements for the seminars/workshops should insure the involvement of
the designated national staff members in the presentation of selected topics.
Following each seminar/workshop, the contract specialist should prepare written
guidelines as a basis for the subsequent actions.
7.       The duration of the contract will be for two years, subject to three
months' notice of termination in writing within the period of the contract,
should the performance of the specialists not prove satisfactory.
8.       The specialist, who will be answerable to the Director-General of the
GDLAPR, will be required to provide CPO, copy to IDA, a full progress report
on his activities and achievements every six months from the time of commence-
ment of his employment. In addition, he will produce a final progress report
covering the full period of his employment.



- 48 -
Annex VIII(b)
Page 4 of 6
9.       A review of progress will be undertaken every six months, following
receipt of the specialist's report, with the participation of the Deputy
Chairman of the CPO, the Director-General of the GDLAPR, the designated
national staff, the specialist, and IDA. The review will take into account
the anticipated phased completion of the activities as set out above. The
timing of activities is approximate only. It will be interpreted flexibly and
may be modified as circumstances warrant. The major consideration in assessing
performance, however, will be the degree of progress in the training of the
national staff, including the degree to which the necessary transferance of
expertise is being achieved during the duration of the specialist's assignment.
10.      The qualifications required for the apppointment are as follows:
(a) Good knowledge of Arabic (spoken and written);
(b) Approved degree-level qualification in civil engineering or
architectural/engineering;
(c) Wide experience in the development and use of tender and
contract documentation for varying project types--buildings,
infrastructure, and services.
(d) An ability and willingness to work closely with national staff
and other expatriate specialists; and
(e) An ability and necessary experience to train national staff
on-the-job, to identify training needs, and to formulate
proposals for appropriate formal and informal training.



- 49 -
Annex VIII(b)
Attachment
Page 5 of 6
Central Planning Organization
Department of Legal Affairs and Public Relations
Functions of Legal Department
A - Preparing and formulating draft laws, decisions, and statutes of
the Bureau, and offering legal opinion to the Head of the Bureau and the Deputy
Director, as well as to any general department chief at the Bureau.
B - Following up litigation and arbitration procedures to which the
Bureau is a partner, and preparing documents and legal memoranda thereof.
C - Studying the legal aspects of agreements and contracts pertaining
to technical economic, cultural, and commercial cooperation, as well as the
agreements and contracts of the consulting and executive companies, offering
opinion regarding their amendment, addition, or cancellation, and participating
in the relevant negotiations.
D - Studying and reviewing agreements and contracts with Arab and
friendly countries, international and regional organizations, specialized
funds, and project consulting and executive companies, to which the Bureau is
a party.
E - Preparing, formulating, and submitting draft agreements and
explanatory memoranda in cooperation and coordination with the Projects, Loans,
Technical Cooperation, and Planning Divisions at the Bureau, presenting them
to the Council of Ministers, and participating in their discussion with the
People's Assembly.
F - Following up procedures to speed up the issuance of the legal
documents with the competent authorities, to conclude agreements and begin
their execution on the specified date for each, along with the preparation of
signed authorization documents and a follow-up of the procedures of ratifica-
tion by the competent authorities, in cooperation and coordination with the
other concerned general departments at the Bureau.
G - Organizing the records of all agreements, keeping their docu-
ments, and following up any amendments or additions and cond-ucting a timely
updating of their data.
H - Participating with the competent authorities, including the
Legal Office and the Supreme Commission for Tenders and Procurement, in setting
the systems, controls, and statutes of measures and draft law pertaining to
the execution and supervision of the development projects, as well as



- 50 -
Annex VIII(b)
Attachment
Page 6 of 6
participating with such authorities in setting the standard forms of contract
general and special terms, in cooperation and coordination with the concerned
divisions at the Bureau in charge of following up the execution of projects.
I - Obtaining all laws, decisions, and statutes issued by the Coun-
cil of Ministers for the various ministries and organizations, and keeping a
current file of these documents, collecting documents pertaining to interna-
tional, Arab, a-ad regional organizations, and filing all reports and decisions
pertaining to :he Republic and issued by the international, Arab, Islamic
conference, as well as all interntional and regional organizations.
J - Following up the discussions of the Consulting Council and the
People's Assembly, as well as the various related committees, and collecting
all decisions pertinent to the Bureau's functions.
K - Obtaining signature forms of the authorized officials for drawing
from loans ane aids, and for signing agreements.
L - Studying customs duties and tax exemption applications with
regard to the needs of the development projects and the concession applica-
tions submitted by the consulting and executive companies, and offering legal
opinion therecl.



- 51 -
Annex VIII(c)
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Specialist for the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
Terms of Reference
1.       The technical assistance specialist will be one of a number of
specialists to be appointed under an IDA-assisted Technical Assistance Project
aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the Central Planning Organization
(CPO).
2.       The General Department for Technical Cooperation and Conferences
(GDTCC) of the CPO has among its designated tasks:
a. Reviewing grant and in-kind aid requests from the various govern-
ment agencies under technical cooperation programs w-.th UN
organizations and specialized agencies, as well as bilateral,
-egional and Arab organizations; consulting on the requests with
other concerned General Departments in the C'O; formulating the
final request proposals after review With all concerned parties
and following up with the relevant aid agencies; assisting with
execution and monitoring of performance, including making
arrangements for hi-ing and travel; reviewing execution of agreed
work plans and reporting thereon to the concerned agencies; and
participating in project evaluation.
b. In coordination with other concerned departments and agencies,
participating in identifying training needs and in arrangements
for training, to be funded by external aid donors; arranging for
placement abroad; and monitoring the implementation of the
training programs and the trainees' progress.
3.       The technical assistance specialist will be required to provide ad-
vice, training and backstopping to designated staff of the GDTCC i. developing
and applying improved procedures related to the functions of the General
Department and in collaborating with the line agencies to achieve more effec-
tive management of technical assistance. For this purpose he will be engaged
with GDTCC staff in the following tasks:
Stage A - about 6 months
(a) Identifying and clarifying current practices and procedures
in CPO and in the line agencies related to the design,
implementation and monitoring of technical assistance in the
following areas;



- 52 -
Annex VIII(c)
Page 2 of 4
(i) Assignment of responsibility for technical assistance
management in each agency concerned (with summary
description of responsibilities);
(ii)  Responsibility for TA coordination at the sectoral
level and at the national level;
(iii)  Determining scope and objectives of technical assis-
tance;
(iv)  Framing terms of reference for TA specialists;
(v) Identifying and recuiting TA specialists;
(vi)  Forms and conditions of specialist contracts used;
Cvii)  Monitoring performance of specialists;
Cviii) Determining training needs and programs for local
staff;
(ix)  Identifying sources of training;
(x) Placing trainees in overseas training and monitoring
attendance and progress of trainees;
Cxi)  Tracing the output of training programs.
(b)  In the light of the findings on existing practices, developing
improved procedures/practices in the management and coordina-
tion of TA to be applied by the GTCC, to include procedures
for coordination with the General Department of Projects and
Loans, and with the Ministry of the Civil Service and Admini-
strative Reform, and for coordinating technical assistance
proposals from the various aid donors.
(c)  Similarly, developing proposed revised procedures/practices
and obtaining views of line agencies preparatory to issue by
CPO of guidelines for the management of TA by line agencies.
Staae B - about 6 months
(d)  In coordination with line agencies, developing a register of
specialists in the various sectoral and subsectoral fields,
to include data on sources of expertise by country, by agency
or by institution, as well as on an individual specialist
basis;



-53 -
Annex VIII(c)
Page 3 of 4
(e) Identifying and codifying sources of training abroad, by
specialization as weIl as by type and duration of training;
(f) Collaborating with the General Department of Legal Affairs in
standardizing conditions of contract for consultants;
(g) Continuing support and training of GDTCC staff in the applica-
tion and ongoing refinement of the revised procedures/practices
and in assisting and advising line agencies in the application
of the guidelines;
(h) Collaborating with the National Institute of Public Administra-
tion in conducting a seminar in Management of Technical Assis-
tance for CPO, the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative
Reform and line agencies.
Stage C - 12 months
Xi) Assisting GDTCC in collaborating with line agencies in identify-
ing, selecting and recruiting specialists; and with line agen-
cies and the Ministry of the Civil Service and Administrative
Reform in arrangements for placement of trainees abroad;
(j) Arranging follow-up TA seminars for concerned staff in the CPO
and in the line agencies;
(k) Collaborating with the Human Resources Planning Department of
the CPO in establishing a system to trace the output from the
training programs;
(1) Collaborating with the Ministry of the Civil Service and Admini-
strative Reform and the Ministry of Education in expanding
records on those being trained abroad to include details of
subsequent placement.
4.       At least three qualified national staff members will be designated to
work directly with the technical assistance specialist. To ensure that the
training of nationals is adequately addressed, the specialist will be required
to develop a training plan, to include, as a complement to on-the-job train-
ing, periodic seminars/workshops. Such seminars/workshups would typically be
of one day's duration, at not more than three-month intervals, and include a
review of progress to date and planned action for the following three months.
The arrangements for the seminars/workshops should ensure the involvement of
the designated national staff members in the presentation of selected topics.
Following each seminar/workshop the specialist should prepare written guide-
lines as a basis for the subsequent actions.



- 54 -
Annex VIII(c)
Page 4 of 4
5.       The duration of the contract will be for two years, subject to three
months notice of termination in writing within the period of the contract,
should the performance of the specialists not prove satisfactory.
6..      The specialist, who will be answerable to the Director-General of the
GDTCC, will be required to provide CPO, copy to IDA, a full progress report on
his activities and achievements every six months from tie time of commencement
of his employment. In addition, he will produce a final progress report
covering the full period of his employment.
7.       A review of progress will be undertaken every six months, following
receipt of the specialist's report, with the participation of the Deputy
Chairman of the CPO, the Director-General of the GDTCC, the de-signated national
staff, the specialist, and IDA. The review will take into account the antici-
pated phased completion of activities as set out above. The timing of activi-
ties is approximate only. It will be interpreted flexibly and may be modified
as circumstances warrant. The major consideration in assessing performance,
however, will be the degree of progress in the training of the national staff,
including the degree to which the necessary transferance of expertise is being
achieved during the duration of the specialist's assignment.
8.       The qualifications required for the appointment are as follows;
Ca) Good knowledge of Arabic (spoken and written);
(b) Approved university degree level qualification, preferably
with management/administration as a major specialization;
Cc) Wide experience in the successful management of technical
assistance in developing countries;
(d) An ability and willingness to work closely with national
staff and other expatriate specialists; and
(e) An ability and necessary experience to train national staff
on-the-job, to identify training needs, and to formulate
proposals for appropriate formal and informal training.



- 55 -
Annex VIII(d)
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Central Planning Organization
Senior Adviser/Computer Specialist for the
General Department of the Data Bank and Central Information
Terms of Reference
1.       The senior adviser/computer specialist, together with two technical
advisers (computer systems analysts), will be appointed under an IDA-assisted
Technical Assistance Project aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the
General Department of the Data Bank and Central Information of the Central
Planning Organization (CPO).
2.       CPO is the principal economic planning organ of the country and has
among its tasks, the main responsibility, in coordination with other ministries
and agencies, for preparing, monitoring, follow up and evaluation of economic
plans and annual investment programs; evaluating, approving and monitoring all
investment projects; coordinating and finalizing the financing arrangements
for development projects; approving all capital expenditures; and preparing
and publishing national statistics.
3.       The General Department of the Data Bank and Central Information
(GDDBCI) has a wide variety of functions which include; creating and main-
taining a National Data Bank for the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of
national development plans; providing data processing services to meet the
internal operational requirements of CPO as well as the Prime Minister's
Office, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank of Yemen; and providing
support to other ministries mainly through training and distributing interna)ly
developed software packages but also providing a data processing service on a
selective basis. While the GDDBCI has a well-established structure and ade-
quate staff at this stage, its capabilities to process the range of priority
data needed have not been developed. These include: foreign trade data, the
1986 national population census, the 1986 agricultural census, an external
debt reporting system, and a payroll/personnel system. Further needs include:
project monitoring, budget preparation and monitoring, disbursement processing,
etc.
4.       The senior adviser will coordinate the activities of the two technical
advisers and will be required to provide advice and training to GDDBCI senior
staff in developing short-term and a long-term work programs, specifying tasks
to be performed, staff assignments, and schedules, to guide GDDBCI staff in
accomplishing its designated functions. In this context, working closely with
the GDDBCI senior staff, he will be engaged in the following tasks;



- 56 -
Annex VIII(d)
Page 2 of 4
Stage A - About 6 months
(a) reviewing the scope and flow of data and existing data records
processed by the General Departments of Planning, Projects,
Follow-up and Investment Budget, Statistics, and GDDBCI paying
particular attention to the inter-departmental and interagency
coordination of data flow and needs.
(b) identifying potential streamlining and coordinating of data as a
basis for future computerization.
Cc) advising and assisting GDDBCI senior staff in developing a
two-year work program containing tasks to be performed and esti-
mated schedules.
Cd)  preparing a user requirements study and a system specifications
document for the computerization of a selected priority applica-
tion.
(e) establishing operating procedures and guidelines for the exist-
ing computerized application systems at GDDBCI.
Cg) preparing an overall training program for GDDBCI staff.
Stage B - About 6 months
(h) carrying out an inhouse training program on documentation and
systems analysis.
Ci)  training GDDBCI staff in the updating of system documentations
of the existing computerized application systems at GDDBCI.
(j) continuing the identification process of the current operations
within the General Departments of Projects, Follow-up and In-
vestment Budget, Statistics, and GDDBCI aud establishing
operating procedures and guidelines to streamline operations.
(k) training selected national staff on how to conduct a user
requirements study of a selected application system.
(1)  training selected national staff on the preparation of a system
specifications document.
Stage C - About 12 months
(m) continuing on-the-job training and backstopping of senior staff
in GDDBCI in project management, systems documentation standard,
and systems analysis techniques.



- 57 -
Annex VIII(d)
Page 3 of 4
(n) continuing the training of GDDBCI senior staff in identifying
new application systems and in the preparation of user require-
ments and system specifications documents.
(o) monitoring the progress of the overseas training program for
GDDBCI staff and updating the training program if needed.
5.       The duration of the contract will be for two years, subject to three
months' notice of termination in writing within the period of the contract,
should the performance of the adviser not prove satisfactory.
6.       At least three qualified national staff menbers will be designated to
work directly with the Senior Adviser/Computer Specialist. To assure that the
training of nationals is adequately addressed, the Senior Adviser will be
required to develop a training plan, to include as a complement to on-the-job
training, periodic seminars/workshops. Such seminars/workshops would typi-
cally be of one day's duration, at not more than three-mnth intervals, and
include a review of progress to date and planned action for the following
three months. The arrangements for the seminars/workshops should ensure the
involvement of the designated national staff members in the presentation of
selected topics. Following each seminar/workshop, the technical adviser
should prepare written guidelines as a basis for the subsequent actions.
7.       The Senior Adviser, who will be answerable to the  Director-General
of the GDDBCI, will be required to provide CPO, copy to IDA, a full progress
report on his activities and achievements every six rmonths from the time of
commencement of his employment. In addition, he will produce a final progress
report covering the full period of his employment.
8.       A review of progress will be undertaken every six months, following
receipt of the technical adviser's report, with the participation of the
Deputy Chairman of the CPO, the Director-General of the GDDBCI, the designated
national staff, the senior adviser, the technical advisers, and IDA. The
review will take into account the anticipated phased completion of the activi-
ties as set out above. The timing of activities is approximate only. It will
be interpreted flexibly and may be modified as circumstances warrant. The
major consideration in assessing performance, however, will be the degree of
progress in the training of the national staff, including the degree to which
the necessary transference of expertise is being achieved during the duration
of the adviser's assignment.
9.       The qualifications required for the appointment are as followsz
(a) Approved qualification as a computer systems analyst;



- 58 -
Annex VIII(d)
Page 4 of 4
(b) Wide experience in the management and development of on-line
computerized application systems and in the planning and manage-
ment of computer centers;
(c) Excellent organizational and analytical skills;
(d) An ability and willingness to work closely with national staff
and other expatriate specialists;
(e) An ability and necessary experience to train national staff
on-the-job, to identify training needs, and to formulate
proposals for appropriate formal and informal training; and
(f) Knowledge of Arabic is desirable.



- 59 -
Annex VIII(e)
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Central Planning Organization
Technical Adviser for the
General Department of the Data Bank and Central Information
Terms of Reference
1.       The Technical Advisers, together with a Senior Adviser/Computer
Specialist, will be appointed under an IDA-assisted Technical Assistance
Project aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the General Department of
the Data Bank and Central Information of the Central Planning Organization
(CPO).
2.       CPO is the principal economic planning organ of the country and has
among its tasks, the main responsibility, in coordination with other minis-
tries and agencies, for preparing, monitoring, follow up and evaluation of
economic plans and annual investment programs; evaluating, approving and
monitoring all investment projects; coordinating and finalizing the financing
arrangements for development projects; approving all capital expenditures; and
preparing and publishing national statistics.
3.       The General Department of the Data Bank and Central Information
(GDDBCI) has a wide variety of functions which include; creating and main-
taining a National Data Bank for the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of
national development plans; providing data processing services to meet the
internal operational requirements of CPO as well as the Prime Minister's
Office, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank of Yemen; and providing
support to other ministries mainly through training and distributing inter-
nally developed software packages but also providing a data processing service
on a selective basis. While the GDDBCI has a well-established structure and
adequate staff at this stage, its capabilities to process the range of priority
data needed have not been developed.
4.       The Technical Advisers w.ill be required, with the :oordination of the
Senior Adviser/Planner, to provide advice and training to GDDBCI staff in
developing their technical skills. In this context, working closely with the
Senior Adviser/Planner, they will be engaged in the following tasks:
Stage A - About 6 months
(a) providing on-the-job training to GDDBCI technical staff on the
conducting of feasibility studies to convert manual systems into
computerized operations.
(b) providing on-the-job training to GDDBCI technical staff on the
preparation of a user requirements study and a system specifica-
tions document for the computerization of a selected priority
application.



- 60 -
Annex VIII(e)
Page 2 of 4
(c) providing on-the-job training to GDDBCI technical staff on data-
base design techniques, teleprocessing monitor software, on-line
programming methodology, telecommunications, networking, and
advanced COBOL programming.
Stage B - About 6 months
(d) advising and training GDDBCI technical staff in implementing a
priority application system.
(e) carrying out an in-house training program on systems operations
documentation and systems operations.
(f)  providing on-the-job training to GDDBCI technical staff on proj-
ect management, application systems development techniques,
system integration techniques, test data design, acceptance
tests, and parallel production run while implementing the
priority application system.
Stage C - About 12 months
(g) continuing the on-the-job training to GDDBCI technical staff in
project management, application systems development techniques,
system integration techniques, test data design, acceptance
tests, and parallel production run while implementing the
priority application system.
(h) providing on-the-job training and backstopping of GDDBCI tech-
nical staff in systems documentation standard, and systems
analysis techniques.
(i)  continuing the training of GDDBCI technical staff in identifying
new application systems and in the preparation of user require-
ments and system specifications documents.
(j) assisting the Senior Adviser in monitorinrg the progress of the
oversea training program for GDDBCI staff.
5.       The duration of the contract will be for two years, subject to three
months' notice of termination in writing within the period of the contract,
should the performance of the adviser not prove satisfactory.
6.       At least three qualified national staff members will be designated to
work directly with each technical adviser. To ensure that the training of
nationals is adequately addressed, the technical advisers will be required to
develop a training plan, to include as a complement to on-the-job training,



- 61 -
Annex VIII(e)
Page 3 of 4
periodic seminars/workshops. Such seminars/workshops would typically be of
one day's duration, at not more than three-month intervals, and include a
review of progress to date and planned action for the following three months.
The arrangements for the seminars/workshops should insure the involvement of
the designated national staff members in the presentation of selected topics.
Following each seminar/workshop, the technical advisers should prepare written
guidelines as a basis for the subsequent actions.
7.       The technical advisers, who will be answerable to the  Director-
General of the GDDBCI, will be required to provide CPO, copy to IDA, a full
progress report on their activities and achievements every six months from the
time of commencement of his employment. In addition, they will produce a
final progress report covering the full period of their employment.
8.       A review of progress will be undertaken every six months, following
receipt of the technical advisers' report, with the participation of the
appropriate Deputy Chairman of the CPO, the Director-General of the GDDBCI,
the designated national staff, the senior adviser, the technical advisers, and
IDA. The review will take into account the anticipated phased completion of
the activities as set out above. The timing of activities is approximate
only. It will be interpreted flexibly and may be modified as circumstances
warrant. The major consideration in assessing performance, however, will be
the degree of progress in the training of the national staff, including the
degree to which the necessary transference of expertise is being achieved
during the duration of the adviser's assignment.
9.       The qualifications required for the appointments are as follows;
(a) Approved qualification as a computer systems analyst;
(b)  Wide experience in the development of computerized application
systems;
(c) Good working knowledge of a data base management system software
package, such as, TOTAL and IDMS;
(d) Good working knowledge of a teleprocessing monitor software
package, such as, NCR TRAN-PRO, IBM CICS, etc.;
(e) Good working knowledge of programming languages, COBOL and
FORTRAN;
(f) An ability and willingness to work closely with national staff
and other expatriate specialists;



- 62 -
Annex VIII(e)
Page4os4
(g) An ability and necessary experience to train national staff
on-the-job, to identify training needs, and to fo;:eulate
proposals for appropriate infomal and formal training; and
(h)  Knowledge of Arabic is desirable.



- 63 -
Annex IX
Page 1 of 5
General Department of Data Bank and Central Information
Computer Systems
Introduction
1.       The existing computer facilities of the GDDBCI consist of an NCR
Criterion 8545 computer system, a Wang VS 80 computer system, and a Wang
OIS-140 computer system. The NCR system is mainly used for the tabulation of
government statistics. The two Wang systems are used in office automation and
word processing applications.
Existing Computer Systems
2.       The existing NCR computer system consists of the following components:
a.   One NCR Criterion 8545 Central Processing Unit with one-million
characters of memory;
b.   Two NCR-658 di-sC drives and controller with a total of
400-million characters of storage;
C.   One NCR-656 disc drive with 9-million characters of storage;
d.   Three NCR-634 tape drives and controller;
e.   One NCR-648 printer at 1200 lines per minute;
f.   One NCR-680 card reader at 600 cards per minute;
g.   Six NCR-7500 key-to-cassette dats entry stations (five
English/Arabic; one English);
h.   One NCR-7300 cassette-to-tape spooler;
i.   One NCR-376 Keypunch machine; and
j.   Six NCR-7900 model 1 CRT terminals.
3.       The Wang VS 80 computer system consists of a Wang VS 80 CPU with six
CRT workstations and three printers. It will not have Arabic capability
initially. The Wang OIS-140 system consists of eight Arabic/English work-
stations and three printers.
Application Systems
4.       The existing application software systems utilize a batch processing
mode. No accounting or other major data processing application system is at
present implemented on this system. The following high priority application



- 64 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 5
systems have been identified and need to be implemented as soon as possible;
foreign trade data, the 1986 national population census, the 1986 agriculture
census, an external debt reporting system, a payrolllpersonnel system, project
monitoring, budget monitoring and preparation, and disbursement processing.
Most of these systems are to be implemented using online, real-time technology.
The real-time, online mode software would provide the CPO management with
greater flexibility in getting the needed information immediately through
computer terminals. To permit the implementation of these application systems.
the existing hardware must be upgraded first.
Additional Equipment
5.       The list of additional hardware items required in upgrading the
existing computer systems is attached (pp. 3-5 of this Annex).
Procurement
6.       The most critical considerations in procuring the new equipment are;
(a) compatibility with the existing equipment; and (b) the availability of
servicing and spare parts.
7.       The manufacturers of the existing equipment (NCR and Wang) are the
only manufacturers which produce equipment which is compatible with the exist-
ing installations.  In addition, the two manufacturers concerned are the only
manufacturers who have sales, services, and spare parts facilities in YAR.
Service coutracts exist for the existing installations snd are providing
satisfactory arrangements for maintenance, repairs, and spare parts. Both
companies have adequate service personnel and spare parts inventory to meet
the requirements of the proposed expanded installations.
8.       Accordingly, the equipment would be procured by negotiations with the
two manufacturers concerned, having regard to the pricing for such equipment
in the Middle East and the size of the proposed installations. At the same
time, new service contracts will be negotiated.
9.       In addition to the computer equipment, proNision is also included for
an uninterruptible power supply system for the computer installations at an
estimated cost of US$300,000. The availability of servicing and spare parts
for this system is an absolute requirement. In the circumstances, and as the
nature of the work involved and its size, would not in any event attract over-
seas competition, the system will be procured through local bidding. At least
three suitable firms are available for bidding locally to ensure satisfactory
competition.



mIemenIfftat ion
CPU uPgrade from NCR 8545 to 8555           $  50,000              The CPU must be upgraded to provide                  4/I5
and 2 million bytes of additional                                  onough processing umer for on-line
wemory.                                                            pragraming.
2         4            NCR 658 ODic drives (200 K8 capacity)        t 250,000             The additional disc drives are rneded           (2)  4/8S
and related cables to Central                                      to support on-Itne data base starase            (2)  9/85
Processor (CPU.                                                    and prooraors training.
3         1            NCR 647 Nigh Speed Printer at (2000 lPM)  $ 1800000                The high-speed prnter fis used to produce            9/85
and related interface hardware,                                    the statistical reports and progromners
training.
4        21            NCR 7900 fodel 3 terminals with cables    $ 210,000                These are terminals that will be plf..ed        16)  4/85
and short-distance modems.                                         in user departieqts for date entry and          (10) 4/06
inquiry purposes.                              (5) 12/86
s   I       NCR 621 multiplexor and dual                 $ 100l 000            This Is the device that interfaces the               4/05
asynchroncous adaptors.                                            terminals to the CPU.
b         6            NCR 6221 Arabic-English Matrix               t  60,000             Printers are to be located In user              (21  9/8O
printers and cables.                                               departments for reports printing.               (3)  4/86
7        IS            Rack-mount modeun and free-standing          $  30.000             These devices art needed to connect                  4/86 6
modems at 1200 bps for remote                                      teminals and printers located in renote
terminals and prlnters,                                            sites (e.g. Prim hinistor's office) to
CPO's computer.
H        30            NCR 7900 Hodel 1 terminals and related    * 1500o0o                Thmes  teminals are used by progrwers           (10) 9/45
multiplexor interface electronics,                                 to enter nd tost program and for                (IO) 9/86
training use,                                   (10) 9/87
9         4            Personal computers and related               $  60,000             These are mainly tran1ing use.  Oiaer                4/I6
software.                                                          bOefits are smll-scale projects in
spreadsheet applications, economics
modelling. etc.
10         i            Wang OIS-H4O Word Processing system         t  dO.000              Thoeo dovices would Increase the word               10/85
workstations and cables.                                           processine capability of CPO and Prime
"inuster's office.  Othr benefits are
olectrontc nl, Inter-office documents
transferrins, etc.
11         5            Wang OIS-140 Word Processing System         $  70.000               *                                                  10/85
printers and cables.                                                                                                             o
17         2            Wang OIS-140 Word Processing system         $ 100,000                                 6                U               10/6S
disc drives (S0 HSI).
13         I            Projector/Audio/Video                       *   5.000              Use for training progrw 9m5



List afrolmma
Xrwle ntat Ion
LI.6I    QuaiLtJ.Y      __  O.[zLcrImttoi___                       L4Ur1                          2s ,*  Ua Iktta1 lar
14         1            A conplete system of uninterruptible       $ 300,000             DUO to unreliable power sw ply sources               9/a5
power supply (UMS system for the                                 this systm would allow orror-faCO
NCR computer, Ian# Ward Processing                               systcc  0eratioms  Pot* that on-line
system.                                                          syst    should not bh  subject to froquent
pr  fails a  datah. can be damed
easily.
iS         1           NCR TRAN-PRO teleprocessing mnitaring    $ 100,000                ThIwU  softwsre packags are reqUired to             4165
software package using to control the                            control a networ of terminals nd printers
network of terinals and printers and                               Wd on-line database retrieval.
TOTAL database manageent system software
package.
TOTAL ... . . . .  * .   , * .         * .l*  j  n
0%
ol
Ph
II



- 67 -
Annex rX
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
Uninterruptible Power Supply Coaponents
1.       Diesel Electric Generator 250 IVA
220V/330V, 50 Hz
Mains-failure operation at site Sans'a
2.       UPS for NCR Computer, 30 KVA input 220/380V 50HZ and output voltage
of 120J230V, 3-phase. 50 Hz
Suitable for 15 min. operation.
3.       UPS for Wang Computer, lOkV& input 220/380V 50 HZ; output voltage
2201380V. 3-phase, 50 Hz,
Suitable for 15 =in. operation
4.       Main Di:stribution Board in Powerstation consisting of:
Ca) Main incoming MCCB 500 Amps 3-phase
(b) Computer outgoing MCCB, 250 Amps 3-phase
Cc) CPO outgoing MCCB 250 Amps, 3-phase
-d) Spare outgoing MCCB 125 Amps, 3-phase
Ce) Spare outgoing MCCB 63 Amps, 3-phase
Cf) Complete with KWH Neter - Voltmeters, Selector Switch
Ammeters. Current Transformers, etc.
5.       Sub-Computer Distribution Board for NCR additional equipment
6.       Sub-Computer Distribution Board for Wang equipment
7.       Computer Main Distribution Board in Battery Room
8.       Underground pover Cable required
(a) from power station to CPO 4x185mm2
(b) from power station to Computer 4x185m2
(c)  from transformer to p.s 4x240=2
(d) new cables from Battery room to Computer
9.       Earthing system for the power station
10.      Repairing broken tiles, etc., with replastering & painting
11.      Installation & Comuissioning Charges including
(a)  Installation & commissioning of all quoted itens from lines 1 to
10.
(b) Shifting of all Distribution boards & 33 KVA
380/220 Transformer to the Battery room.
tc) Re-connection of all airconditioners including 3 nos. 22 tons
ACs.
12.      Voltage Stabilizers
13.      Cables



ISLAMIC                                                44
1z4x;#v¢: Z  IRAO    REP OF  A!I4AiN11AN
IRAN                 .                                                                                        YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
.QA             F Fnl.a<>-ICW A^"5N                                                         IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
PROJECTS:
C) I  A   R   A   L~~~~~~ I A                             ,,.'~~~~~,VJ, ~Agri'culturail
SAUDI ARABIA           'R                                                                                                             Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
of                                                                                         (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CACB)
U    Agricultural Research Centers
E  \                           \   ,!               1 s                     S            [:                               _    PDemonstration Farms
AI,E         A               r                                  .                                                           Grain Starage
T' 15  }                         4                                                     Fisheries
*.~~~~~~~~~~~MAL IA                                                                          ®  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fish Markets
£rHIoPIA|?              --        \ ij  ,/s \.                          '~.~~'.v-t J          .'IL  Industrial
EFMIOPIA .7        ~..*.                                                                                             * Health
A    Education
/  .                     .*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X        -7    Highways
C      cAA!~~~~~~~~YB  A                .              I                               - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~Highway Maintenance
.2  :7 X  2---J  @                 4   Power   Distribution     Areas
-\                     -                                                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Power Stations
I                 I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transmission Lines
r -  -'                                                       V1*e111  Geothermal SupyWtrExploration
\g--~~~~~~~~~~~ L- p[)  Urban Development
ir_  /          .^\   ,  \   \gn   ,'           EXISTING FEATURES.
* g  X   0  \   J-2\  ot       '              '                     Primary Roads
I                                                             - > / \ } 9 \ Secondory Roads
iJt             I , !   ,, b   {  X  U   |  .,>,>-. t   > .                    ' ' Airports
Z~iugh I                                                         4,   Parts
I  I                                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadis
I. \  *   S    i1                                   3     Governofote Copitals
*          I )    ,  t   L -  fA                               *    Nolional Copitals                        I
r, - -,} - -' \ zv 7asl o# \ Provincial Boundories
/                     ( t                           S)nwa% ,    .     .                        --   International Boundaries
X. ~ ~ ~ \
*-/  I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1500
7,,1*e:~~~ K  %-~j-i                                /                     (-A-300
S  .  \  ~< 1X1 {t) 15               /                       I
iAL MAHWEIT                                           M/i                                                                E
irdud~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RED   SEAI                                           'Rjia\  



AA 4    w,  T,                                                                                                                               0        20        40       60
KILOMEIEIRS
RED SEA                                                                                                                                                               ` \  /L, .    S
// ~   ~~~~~~~ ",                                                                                                           PHOllu -.         trs      ,,            I
*  'L'~~~~~A|rlV*A'..Cre{   89|324
24'                                                                                                                       'Fm jecit Coffy3Mted              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FISCAL YEAR
PROJECT                              APPROVED
H righways 1                             1972
/  ihGam  Ag icullture                     1973
* Educotion I1                             t974
~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sana'a Water Supply I   1974
* Small rIndugry Oovoloprmnt               1974
Hoybon                              #~~~~~~~~~ Scuihern UPIamds Rural Development 1  1975
PEOP/              E           E   bIh. o   HRghwa.        1 .                    :   .   1975
* iodadoid  Water Supply & Sewerage      1975
(:~~P  '~~ EM E             * ~Educat,cn ri                           1976-
G roin Storage & Processing               1976
Livestock Credit £ Ptoeia17
Soan'a Wolef supply U1 I Seweraqe        1977
Part DJ*kNt I                              1977
~-                                             )                                              on b becl 814b d cny                            er nny      er K dTiham   Agriculturs U  1971
/   Pojier 0istribyijto                      1979
Tihamo aAgculaurn M         *~           1979
~~~~~~~~'I                                                                                           r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ihama AgrqIculture UI  1950
/                  ~~~~~~Artisoanl Fisheries 1               2980
SoutlWetn UPlands Rural Demlop mant U1    1951
Power It RegWi foca Ienflcneeon         1981
Industrial Development                   2952
I' 7                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADEN        Education 17                             1912  .
Urban'1                                  1982
Bob el Mondeb                     -'Agricultural Rewarch & Developmenit                                                                           196.2
tltghways LV                             1952
Petroleum" a Geothermal                  2982
Health                                  1953
\tp                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~     ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Credit  7 19&3
* !du~~~atlon V ~~1953
Poe M2943-
GUIF  OF   ADENI                                                               ConicalHighlands A       Icultural Development  93
fluemep iesbeenprepredliy he Ve*~earve stR eaiue, lo Muccewverw  ofHighwaysl V'1954.:
VW  adws wd i exchA'e4'y Ac, to krpeWe um ofe FM                                                                                          1984  ~
Geothermal Eupiorotian                   1954 
/~~~~          - I~(S  ~ .   I                            Fwe Carpwortn. The dwenNeueedend 01ebcMdui1eefo an 11W mapdonot                                                                                4 .4
mwifr orft#tp OI rho 1141*B8* wafeiayilaslFnr  C                 50g4pp.J
on me MO91 etituW of arny terdafy or NVt etoreeniaroarW or ecc,letce of eu~A boutderle



