Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17273 LE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$63 MILLION
TO
THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
February 27, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL)
US$1.00 =LL 1530
LL 1000 = US$0.65
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
AFESD       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
BP          Brevet Professionnel
BT          Baccalaureat Technique (Technical Baccalaureate)
CERD        Center for Educational Research and Development
CDR         Council for Development and Reconstruction
ERRP        Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
GTZ         German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HCVTE       High Council for Vocational and Technical Education
IAL         Industrial Association of Lebanon
IDAL        Industrial Development Authority of Lebanon
IPNET       Institut P6dagogique National des Etudes Techniques
IDB         Islamic Development Bank
ISU         Information Systems Unit
MNEYS       Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports
MHEC        Ministry of Higher Education and Culture
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOL         Ministry of Labor
MVTE        Ministry of Vocational & Technical Education
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
NEO         National Employment Office
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SME         Small & Medium Enterprises
TC          Technical Committee
TS          Technicien Superieur
TSU         Technical Support Unit
VTE         Vocational & Technical Education
YWCA        Young Women Christian Association
Vice President:         Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:       Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:       Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager:           Vasilios C. Demetriou



Lebanese Republic
Vocational and Technical Education Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data                               .............................................................1
A: Project Development Objective ...............................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ..................................1
B: Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the Project ..................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............................5
C: Project Description ...............................................................6
1. Project components ...............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................7
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................7
D: Project Rationale ...............................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ..................................................... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 10
5. Value added of Bank support ..............................................................                       11
E: Project Analyses ...............................................................11
1. Economic ..............................................................                                          11
2. Financial ..............................................................                                         11
3. Technical ..............................................................                                         12
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                     12
5. Social ..............................................................                                            12
6. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                          13
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                            13
F: Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                    13
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                    13
2. Critical risks ..............................................................                                    14
3. Possible controversial aspects ..............................................................                    15
G: Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                       15
1. Effectiveness conditions ..............................................................                          15
2. Other ..............................................................                                             15
H: Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                16
I:  Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................................................                              16



List of Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 1 a:  Vocational and Technical Education Policy Statement
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:   Economic Analysis
Annex 5:   Financial Summary
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:   Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:   Country at a Glance
Map         IBRD 29338



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOcIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Sector
Project Appraisal Document
Lebanese Republic
Vocational and Technical Education Project
Date: February 27, 1998                                              [] Draft      [x1 Final
Task Manager: Vasilios C. Demetriou                 Country Director: Inder K. Sud
Project ID: 38687      Sector: Social Protection
Lending Instrument: IBRD SIL                       PTI:        [] Yes           [x] No
Project Financing Data     [x] Loan    []  Credit        [  Guarantee      []  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$63.0
Proposed Terms:                            [x] Multicurrency     [   Single currency
Grace period (years): 4 years     [x] Standard Variable  [   Fixed      []       LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 17 years
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Service charge: NA
Financing pian WS$m):
Source                             Local            Foreign          Total
Government                          5.87               -              5.87
IBRD                               24.75             38.25           63.00
Total                              30.62             38.25           68.87
.....................................................................................--......................---.-- . . . . . . . . . . .   __ -    -....
Borrower: Government of the Lebanese Republic
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education (MVTE)
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):           1999    2000    2001      2002     2003    2004
Annual     5.08    12.81    18.02    16.39     8.40     2.30
Cumulative     5.08    17.89    35.91    52.30    60.70    63.00
Project implementation period: July 1, 1998 to June 30, 2003  Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1998
Expected closing date: December 31, 2003
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex Ifor key performance
indicators):
The objective of the project is to improve the performance of the Vocational and Technical Education (VTE)
system by making it more demand driven and responsive to market needs. This is part of the effort to help the
reconstruction of a war-tom country.



Page 2                                       Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Pr1ect
Progress in achieving this objective within five years will be evaluated on the basis of the following indicators:
(a) percentage of VTE graduates finding employment in their fields within one year of graduation to reach 60%
by mid-Project and 80% by the end of the Project; (b) difference in salary levels of VTE graduates and non-
graduates after 12 months of employment to increase from current 20 to 25% by mid-Project and to 30% by the
end of the Project; (c) unemployment rate of skilled workers to be reduced from current 6.8 to 6% by mid-Project
and to 5% by the end of the Project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project - Report No. 17153-LE
(November 7, 1997).
The Report was discussed by the Executive Directors on December 4, 1997. The strategic objectives of the CAS
are to support: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of infrastructure and institutional development; (b)
envirornentally sustainable development; and (c) upgrading the human resource base and addressing poverty.
The project would help achieve the goals of the CAS with respect to objectives (a) and (c). Specifically:
With respect to objective (a), the Project would assist in:
* Rehabilitating and expanding existing public VTE schools to maximize their efficiency and potential.
* Building administrative capacity in MVTE.
* Increasing managerial autonomy of public VTE schools.
*  Addressing fnancial sustainability issues and exploring appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.
* Improving VTE linkages and cooperation with the private sector through improved representation of the
private sector in advisory bodies such as the Higher Council for Vocational and Technical Education
(HCVTE) and the School Boards. The public/private pilot with the "Model Schools" would be expected to
be responsive to the needs of particular sectors with growth potential.
With respect to objective (c), the Project would assist in:
* Developing a policy for VTE within a broader Human Resources Development framework in cooperation
with the ministries of general and higher education.
* Defining the roles of the public and private sectors with respect to training, and encouraging the private
sector to provide quality training in areas where it has a comparative advantage through improved regulation
and accreditation procedures.
* Addressing poverty issues by expanding VTE access which is affordable by economically disadvantaged
groups.
* Meeting current and expected labor demand by expanding access to VTE and improving its relevance,
responsiveness and quality.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Background
This project is emerging in the aftermath of a 17-year civil war during which most systems collapsed and skilled
workers fled the country. Since 199 1, international agencies have been providing assistance to the reconstruction
efforts, which included rehabilitation of damaged VTE schools.
Lebanese general education is an adaptation of the French system, with six years of primary, three years of
intermediate and three years of secondary, which include vocational and technical training (grades 10-12). The
education sector was reorganized in 1993 into three Ministries: General, Vocational and Technical, and Higher
Education. However, these Ministries have only begun to establish the necessary coordination mechanisms with
each other. The only institution that originally served both general and vocational education (but not higher
education) is the Center for Educational Research and Development (CERD), but its approach is academic and
has not contributed to making VTE more responsive to market needs or developing new curricula for new skills
required by several emerging sectors. More recently, CERD has been concentrating on general education only,
and MVTE has been relying on consultants for related research and strategy formulation.



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                                  Page 3
VTE cycles begin at the intermediate level with Brevet Professionnel (BP) programs on a very small scale. At
the secondary level, the Baccalaureat Technique (BT) is offered in three-year programs in the traditional
industrial trades (mechanical, electrical, electronics, automotive, carpentry, cabinetry, architectural drafting,
interior design, hotel management & food services). Quality problems in the general education system are
forcing VTE schools to provide remedial courses in general subjects. At the post-secondary level, the Technique
Superieur (TS) is offered in similar trades also in 3-year programs. Special certificates and other shorter
programs are also offered at the post-secondary level.
The private sector has played a major role at all levels of education in Lebanon, but its share decreases at the
higher levels. During the 1996-97 school year enrollments in private education represented 83% at the preschool
level, 71% at the primary level, 60% at the intermediate and secondary levels, and 55% at the post-secondary
level. About 25% of enrollment at the secondary level was in VTE of which 65% was in private schools.
With the exception of a dozen NGOs and a few private schools, none offer any training in industrial trades due to
the high capital investment associated with these programs. As a result, most of the training in private VTE
schools is in service-oriented trades (secretarial, commerce, banking, computers) leaving the burden for training
in industrial and construction trades to the public sector and a dozen NGOs. With the exception of the NGOs, the
quality of such training in private schools is generally poor as evidenced by the low examination pass rates of
students (50%). The MVTE administers all examinations nationally.
Sector Issues
Past government efforts to improve VTE lacked coherence due to an absence of a clearly articulated VTE policy.
However, the current administration is actively seeking to provide a well-defined framework to promote a
balanced development of both private and public VTE. The major issues to be addressed in VTE are grouped
into the following three categories:
Institutional
*  Understaffed central management hampering the operations of the Ministry.
*  Lack of a cohesive VTE strategy.
*  Lack of information for planning and operation of the VTE system both public and private .
-  Poor school-based management resulting in high unit costs for VTE training.
*  No cost recovery. The registration fees charged are insignificant and there are no major revenue generating
activities.
Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality
*  Low status of VTE. Most middle class Lebanese aspire to white collar jobs and higher education.
*  Weak linkages to the labor market.
*  Outdated curricula2 and course materials, scarce and outdated resource materials and library books.
*  Rigid and obsolete training in public schools.
*  Small output of graduates from both public and private VTE schools cannot satisfy market demand.
*  Low level of qualifications and technical competence of instructors due to lack of practical experience
among VTE teachers and little exposure to industrial settings among instructors.
*  Overly academic orientation of teacher training.
*  Lack of quality standards, certification criteria and testing mechanisms.
3
*  Absence of private sector involvement in the design of curricula and specific training needs3.
' A local consulting firm was commissioned to conduct a survey as part of project preparation.
2Curricula are currently being revised but have not yet been implemented. Testing and implementation will be carried out during project
implementation.
3More recently, the private sector has been invited to participate in the design of curricula.



Page 4                                          Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
Delivery Mechanisms & Physical Infrastructure
*  Shortage of modem equipment and facilities. Even the rehabilitated schools require further investments to
make them fully operational and responsive to new training. Some equipment, although in good working
condition, is obsolete.
*  Low student/teacher ratios (average of 6.7: 1).
*  Inefficient use of physical resources (low utilization rates for some facilities and overcrowding in others).
*  Lack of standards and norms for physical facilities. New VTE public schools are being built with assistance
from other donors with wide variations in standards used. The range of equipment used in training varies
from school to school.
4
* Inadequate physical information on VTE public and private schools.
Government Strategy
In the early nineties, the Government developed plans to expand the public VTE system to meet the large
shortage of skilled manpower. However, the plan was based on a number of technically flawed studies. For
example, proposals included 100 schools with a student capacity of 118,000. Realizing that these plans were not
justifiable on the basis of student population, they were scaled down to 34 schools with a student capacity of
about 18,000. Loans from the Arab Fund, the Islamic Development Bank and OPEC were obtained to finance
them. In 1996, the National Employment Office (NEO) conducted a survey involving 3,550 enterprises and
40,000 employees which has provided better data for establishing priorities. The analysis is ongoing.
The Government's current target is to increase the participation rate in VTE to 50% of secondary enrollment
from the current 25% in the next 5-6 years. This translates roughly to 62,000 places (50% of 124,000, the
projected secondary enrollment in 2004) of which 32,300 (52%) would be in the public sector. This is
reasonable when compared to similar neighboring countries like Jordan (31%), Egypt (60%) and Turkey (41%).
In the European Union, for example, the less industrialized countries enroll between 19-41% of their secondary
students in VTE. Industrialized countries enroll over 70% of their secondary students in VTE. In Lebanon
during the 1996-97 period, the secondary cycle enrolled 17,600 students in private VTE schools (16%) and 9,500
students in public VTE schools (9%). The post-secondary cycle (TS level and other special certificates) enrolled
5,700 students in private VTE schools and 3,300 in public VTE schools. Enrollment in VTE increased by about
12% in the last three years and is expected to accelerate when more affordable public places are created.
The Government recognizes the need to address institutional and sectoral issues in VTE in parallel with the
above investments in physical infrastructure. However, it lacks the expertise to formulate a VTE strategy and is
seeking Bank assistance to develop a VTE strategy to address the institutional and sectoral issues identified. One
of the most critical issues is cost recovery. The project would explore cost recovery mechanisms such as
charging fees for specially designed training programs. Improved information systems would enable the
Government to calculate more accurately budgetary resources and understand the need for gradual cost recovery
to ensure system sustainability5.
Market Responsiveness. Another critical element is involvement of the private sector in the VTE system to
ensure responsiveness. One of the key aspects of the policy framework to be developed under the project is to
give employers, especially in the private sector, a more active advisory role in VTE policy matters. Private
employers will have substantial representation in all advisory bodies (HCVTE, the School Boards). This would
help ensure that sector policies are responsive to the needs of employers and that training is geared towards the
acquisition of skills in demand.
4A preliminary survey of existing public school sites and buildings was conducted prior to appraisal and was funded by the Japanese
PHRD grant. This and previous surveys of equipment and furniture will form the basis of an information system that will be developed
under the project.
5 Forms of cost recovery would be initiated during project implementation and public schools would be encouraged to run courses outside
the formal BT and TS programs for which fees will be charged. In addition, schools might be allowed to produce goods and sell them to
the public for profit



Lebanese Republic .. Vocational and Technical Education Project                                          Page 5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project as designed would address most of the issues identified above.
Strategic Choices. These were formulated based on an assessment of existing studies carried out by various
local consultants, collection and analysis of data including survey of industries undertaken by the National
Employment Office (NEO), studies commissioned by the project, and through discussions with experts in the
field.
(i) New Construction versus Rehabilitation/Expansion within Existing Schools: Consolidation of existing
training facilities, including a modest expansion and the development of new fields of study within existing
school compounds was the strategic choice over developing new schools. This would achieve significant savings
as each student place would be created at lower unit costs than at new sites6.
(ii) Support to the Public versus Private VTE Schools: Lebanon has an active private and public VTE sector.
As such, it would appear that there is no rationale for creating new publicly funded and administered VTE
schools. However, public intervention is essential for improving the cost-effectiveness, regulation and quality of
the system as a whole. Furthermore, there is a market failure with respect to training in industrial trades. This is
understandable in view of the high costs involved in setting up such training facilities. The system has to plan
for filling the needs of future labor market needs. Most private schools have been unable to respond to the
training needs of the economy because of the high investments involved in setting up training facilities in
industrial trades. The following technical and social factors provide additional justification for project support to
the public sector:
- Most private VTE schools are located in urban areas. Government strategy is to provide VTE training
opportunities for lower income students from rural areas.
*   Majority of VTE students are from lower income families and cannot afford private VTE.
e   There is a high demand for training in public VTE schools.
*   The size and share of the public VTE system is small compared with other similar countries in the region.
Direct Bank loans to the private sector are not feasible because it is Government policy not to guarantee loans to
the private sector. But there will be indirect benefits from activities undertaken by the strengthened MVTE and
specifically from:
*   Improved curricula, better designed training programs, textbooks and teaching aides that MVTE will
develop, which private VTE schools could adopt or purchase.
*  Information and research on market needs, which MVTE will make public.
*  Improved standards, examinations, and certification procedures.
*  Improved accreditation, which may eliminate schools not meeting minimum quality standards.
Other indirect assistance to the private sector would be undertaken through private/public partnerships in the
form of the proposed "Model Schools" 7. These schools would initially focus on fields with export potential such
as: graphic arts, textiles and apparel, agri-mechanics and food technology, and process and control engineering.
Their purpose is to increase VTE output for new specializations related to these growing sectors. They represent
a public-private collaboration that could be extended to other fields.8
Government policy does not permit purchasing of lands for schools. Therefore, all schools are built on government owned or donated
lands. Because of increases in the value of land, new schools are often built on marginally adequate locations and with very restrictive lot
sizes. By contrast, most existing schools are located in very good lots, both in terns of location and size and are superior in most respects
to what is available now. For this reason, the Project aims to fully develop the potential of existing schools before any additional
expansion in new sites is considered.
7With the exception of the major NGOs.
aInterviews with decision makers from the industrial trades, and representatives from industrial associations revealed a strong willingness
to participate in the project These "Model Schools" would also offer more flexible training programs as demanded by employers and
industry who would be involved in the design of such programs for their direct benefit. Cost recovery from these programs may be
feasible and would be explored.



Page 6                                         Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
(iii) Assistance to Vocational versus General Education: General education would benefit from a separate
Bank-assisted project (being developed). Since the new education policy permits movement of students between
the two streams, the rigidities previously associated with VTE no longer exist. VTE is generally costlier than
general education, but a country needs a certain level of technical manpower to develop its economy. The size of
the VTE sector in Lebanon today is disproportionately small in comparison with all of its neighbors and by
international standards. The modest expansion proposed, even taking into account the new facilities being
established by other donors, is warranted.
C. Project Description
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
CoQst
Including
Contin-            uBnk    % Bank
gecies   %f Einain    Financing
Componenkt                     Category      (UISSm)   I.tal         g
(US$m)
Component l1: Institutional Strengthening and   Institution     10.01    15%       9.97       99.7%
Capacity Building through: (a) strengthening   Building
MVTE's management, planning, financial control   Policy
capabilities, marketing and research, and school-
based management; (b) developing VTE policies
including defining public/private sector roles in
training, improving cost recovery, and increasing
women's participation in the labor market; (c)
campaigns to improve the image of VTE and
public attitude towards it; and (d) establishing and
maintaining a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)   Project
in the MVTE.                                   Management
Component2: Improvement of Relevance,          Institution       17.12   25%       17.11      99.9%
Responsiveness and Quality of Training through:  Building
(a) addressing current and expected training   Policy
demand (formal training and modular or short-term
accelerated training) including development of
training programs that would attract women into
more productive jobs; (b) developing quality
standards; (c) developing modem curricula; and (d)
improving pre- and in-service training of teachers.
Component3: Delivery Mechanisms                Physical         41.74    60%      35.92       86.0%
Improvement9 through: (a) improving the        Institution
efficiency of the existing VTE schools by      Building
rehabilitating, expanding, and re-equipping them;
and (b) developing new fields ("Model Schools")
in sectors with growth potential in partnership with
the private sector.
Total         68.87  100%       63.00      91.5%
9 Project-supported physical expansion will be limited to a modest scale of: (a) 4,000 additional student places by upgrading and
expanding existing facilities; and (b) 800 student places in "Model Schools" to be established within existing school compounds in
consultation with the private sector. These "Model Schools" will provide training in new fields in high demand.



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                            Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
* Improving management and planning of VTE.
* Strengthening the regulatory framework for VTE.
*  Ensuring responsiveness between labor market needs and proposed training.
*  Enhancing coordination between the private and public sectors.
3. Benefits and target population. The project will provide economic, social and related benefits:
Economic Benefits
*  A larger skilled labor force through the expansion of the system.
*  Improved linkages to labor market needs, resulting in better employment opportunities for VTE graduates
and in meeting the employers' skills demands.
*  Higher labor productivity through better quality and more relevant training.
*  Increased tax revenues from increased numbers of VTE graduates with higher earnings.
*  More efficient use of public and private funds through reduced unit costs of training.
*  Reduced unemployment by retraining unemployed workers in skills that are in high demand.
Social Benefits
* Increased participation of women in the labor market.
* Greater equality of educational opportunity for economically disadvantaged groups, by expanding public
VTE schools in economically under-developed areas.
* Higher wages for workers.
Other Benefits
* Creation of new small enterprises by VTE graduates through entrepreneurship training.
- Improved national image of VTE.
* Introduction of modular training, making VTE training more flexible.
Target Populations
S Students from disadvantaged groups and lower income families who are the main users of public VTE'0.
* Women who would be attracted to new fields of specialization and into more productive jobs (for example:
graphic arts, food technology, textile design).
- Workers who need to be retrained in new skills.
* Potential entrepreneurs among VTE graduates, employed and unemployed workers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Executing agency: The Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education (MVTE) will be the executing agency.
The existing Technical Support Unit (TSU), created recently to implement the remaining activities under the
Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), will be strengthened to become a full fledged
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for this Project. The PIU will be staffed with: (a) a Project Director, (b) a
Technical Education Officer, (c) a Finance Officer, (d) a Procurement Officer, and (e) an Architect". On the
administrative side there will be an Executive Secretary, a Computer Operator and other administrative support
staff, all of whom will receive training in office management procedures and familiarization with the Bank's
procedures.
Project coordination: The PIU would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of all project activities and
would report directly to the Minister of MVTE. The PIU will hold regular meetings with the Director General of
MVTE to discuss and report progress of project activities and seek guidance concerning the Project. Annual
implementation plans will be formulated in consultation with the technical staff of the Ministry. In addition, a
Technical Committee (TC) will be established for each major project component or activity to work closely
'0 Private VTE education is relatively expensive in Lebanon.
" The PIU staff will work closely with CDR staff responsible for the procurement of goods and civil works, and related supervision.



Page 8                                        Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
with the PIU to ensure sound technical design. Three major TCs12 will be formulated to deal with parts A, B, and
C of the Project Others will be formulated as the need arises during project implementation. The TCs will
review annual plans, TORs and selection criteria for consulting services, and technical proposals prepared by
consultants. The TCs will present their recommendations to the Minister and the Director General of MVTE. At
the school level there will be a School Coordination Unit (SCU) comprising school staff assigned to coordinate
activities to be carried out in their respective schools.
Project oversight: MVTE would have the responsibility of project oversight and policy guidance in consultation
with the existing HCVTE, which is expected to become more active in providing policy direction to the sector.
The HCVTE includes members from the other two ministries of education (General Education and Higher
Education), as well as the ministries of Labor, Social Affairs, and the private sector (trade union representatives,
industry and employers).
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The P][U would be responsible for financial
management of the project and reporting, following systems and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Project
accounts will be kept for all project-related expenditures following generally accepted accounting principles.
Project accounts will be audited annually, following international auditing standards, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements under SOEs will be reviewed during supervision missions. The annual
audit report would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. The existing
financial management system was reviewed in detail during appraisal and a separate report was prepared which
includes an assessment of the situation and recommendations to improve the financial administration of the
Project. These recommendations would be taken into account when the accounting system for the project will be
put in place after the Project Accountant is appointed (sometime before effectiveness). CDR has an established
system which will be used for the civil works and equipment categories.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Relevant data collection, validation, analysis, and dissemination
would be the responsibility of the MVTE and would be guided by: (a) the VTE Policy Note prepared by MVTE;
and (b) the Implementation Plan in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The semi-annual progress reports
will cover the periods from April-September (to be submitted no later than October 31) and from October-March
(to be submitted no later than April 30). In addition, progress would be monitored through Bank supervision
missions, joint Bank-Borrower annual reviews , the mid-term review, and the progress indicators (Annex 1).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Project Design Alternatives
*  Increase physical capacity through the construction of new schools. This was rejected because some 18,000
new public VTE places are being created with the assistance of the Arab Fund, Islamic Development Bank
and OPEC.
*  Expand training across all existing specializations. This was rejected because it was felt that MVTE should
first establish market needs and priorities for certain specializations through a needs assessment with
employers and industry.
Project Management & Implementation
* Assign project management and execution to the current MVTE staff. Rejected because of limited project
management capabilities in MVTE. Instead, a PIU, working closely with the Ministry was considered a
more practical arrangement, enabling MVTE to hire qualified technical staff to manage the project more
efficiently and gradually transferring its experience and know-how to MVTE.
12 The TCs will comprise: MVTE staff members duly qualified to deal with the subject or activity; PIU staff members; other
technical members (consultants or advisors) as needed; and stakeholders if applicable.
13 The first one will be an Early Implementation Review currently practiced by the Middle East and North Africa Region.



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                         Page 9
* Assign full project management and execution to CDR. Rejected because this option would not permit the
development of implementation capacity within MVTE. CDR will assist in the procurement of civil works
and equipment, in view of its expertise, while MVTE manages all other activities through its PIU.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned)
Project Scope                                 Source and Funding Level
Bank-Financed
Completed. "First Education Project" The project was designed to upgrade   Loan 877-LE, 1977-1986,
Lebanon's education system by constructing and equipping 39 primary, 24    US$6.6 million, of which US$5
lower secondary schools, 3 primary teacher training institutes, and one lower  million was disbursed. The
secondary teacher training institute. However, following the destruction of   project was not audited by OED,
most vocational and technical schools during the 1975-76 war hostilities, the   but was given satisfactory overall
Government requested and the Bank approved the reorientation of the project rating for project outcomes.
towards repairing and re-equipping three technical vocational schools.
Qn;gQinzg. Emergency Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Project (Vocational   IBRD Loan 3562-LE - US$15
Education Component). Providing support for the rehabilitation of existing   million for the Vocational
VTE schools (civil works and equipment), and for curriculum development.   Education Component. The
The closing date is December 31, 1998.                            project is rated: DO=S; IP=S
Other Development Agencies (Ongoing projects)
Financing the design, construction, equipment, and supervision of 15 new  Arab Fund for Economic and
VTE schools.                                                      Social Development (AFESD),
1996, US$50 million.
Financing 39% of the civil works for VTE schools and provision of  Islamic Development Bank
equipment.                                                       (IDB), US$30 million.
Financing construction of VTE schools in Northern Lebanon.        OPEC Fund for International
Development, US$4 million.
Supplying IPNET with equipment, technical assistance, and training services. Lebanese-French Protocols of
1995-1996, FF 25.6 million.
Assistance through GTZ in implementing a dual training program, and  Germany (GTZ), DM 15 million
technical assistance for teacher training programs aimed at upgrading  for the dual system training
technical skills and training methods. Recently, a new agreement was signed  program, DM 5 million for
with MVTE and CDR for the creation of a Vocational College        teacher training, and DM 10
("Fachhochschule") in Beirut.                                     million for the "Fachhochschule".
Other Development Agencies to Other Ministries/Agencies (Ongoing
projects)
Substantial reconstruction assistance to the Ministries of Health, Agriculture   Germany (US$48 million)
and Industry.
Assistance to the Ministry of Health to upgrade basic medical and nursing  United Kingdom
standards in hospitals and clinics and to develop skills of nurse instructors.
Assistance for the development of programs for the disabled.      Sweden
Assistance for the development of programs for women through YWCA.  United States



Page 10                                       Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Lessons learned from overall implementation experience in Lebanon
The need for parliamentary ratification of external loans has delayed effectiveness for most projects. The
average for 11 operations was about 7 months from Board presentation, but the range was from 4 to 12 months.
A key factor in reducing effectiveness delays is to synchronize project processing with parliamentary activities.
This project will be presented to the Board in March, 1998, to take advantage of the early 1998 parliamentary
session to reduce "waiting time".
Loan 877-LE - First Education Project
The project was implemented during the civil war with six Closing Date extensions. About 76% of the loan was
disbursed. The main lesson learned is that even under extraordinary conditions a project can still be
implemented if the project staff are competent and determined to accomplish their goals. In this project careful
selection of PIU staff with experience and good qualifications would assure better prospects for good
performance.
Loan 3562-LE - Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (ERRP)
Under the Emergency Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), the Bank has provided support since
1993 to MVTE for the rehabilitation of existing VTE schools (civil works and equipment), and for curricula
development.
The main lessons learned from this operation were that:
*  The ERRP did not address institutional or sectoral issues, because the institutions involved were not prepared
for policy dialogue at the time of project preparation. The deficiencies are being addressed by the proposed
project which includes substantial institutional and policy development component.
* Establishing management arrangements (the TSU) was a lengthy process. The proposed project is
establishing an interim Technical Support Unit (TSU) under the ERRP which will gradually take over
coordination functionsfor the new project and become afully fledged PIU. This will give the PIU staff a
head start in project implementation. All the key positions are already filled with qualified and
experienced staff.
-  Implementation was subject to setbacks due to changes in the Project description requested by the
beneficiary Ministry (MVTE). This problem will be avoided in the proposedproject by assigning executing
responsibility to MVTE which is the direct beneficiary. In addition, Technical Committees for each major
component, and School Coordination Units at each beneficiary school would ensure that decisions are
based on technical considerations and the users' needs are adequately addressed Implementation
capacity within MVTE would be gradually developed under the Project
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
A series of recent initiatives taken by the Govermnent indicate a serious commitment to the VTE sector.
*  In 1995, the Govermnent adopted a VTE strategy focusing on (a) improving pre-employment and upgrading
VTE programs; (b) providing flexible training paths by allowing bi-directional transfers (from general to
vocational and vice versa); and (c) promoting interaction between VTE institutions and the private sector.
*  A "Manpower Survey" was carried out by the National Employment Office (NEO) involving 3,550
enterprises and 40,000 employees. The MVTE is working closely with the NEO and will be using the data to
establish training priorities.
*  Public VTE recurrent expenditure budget has increased by 25% in the last 3 years. This included: (a) a 30%
increase in the salaries of instructors bringing them at par with private sector salaries; and (b) adequate
provision of consumable materials. In 1997, the recurrent budget structure was 65% salary and 35% non-
salary, which compares favorably with the budget structure in other countries which is often 80% salary.
* MVTE has commissioned several local consultants to conduct related studies and surveys: (a) survey of
public VTE school assets; and (b) survey of private VTE schools. These would be used to establish a
database on enrollments, programs offered, budget, staffing, facilities and equipment, and other resources.



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                         Page 11
5. Value added of Bank support
Bank involvement in this project will improve outcomes by catalyzing lessons of international experience,
improving efficiency and providing strategic direction to the sector. In addition, Bank participation will ensure
that the following opportunities are not missed: (a) improving sectoral coordination, (b) exploring financing
mechanisms with emphasis on sustainability, (c) improving women's participation in the labor market, and (d)
encouraging the active involvement of the private sector.
E: Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the projectfile. See Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):  [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis:     []  Cost           []  Other
NPV=US$76.9 million;            Effectiveness      [Specify]
ERR=15.8%                       Analysis:
The economic soundness and viability of the project was supported by a cost benefit analysis, which incorporated
a sensitivity analysis based on the uncertainty of future wages. The economic benefits are measured by the
incremental earnings of VTE graduates generated by the project. The economic costs include the project
investment and incremental recurrent costs, and opportunity costs (forfeited income by VTE students attending
school).
The project is economically feasible based on the estimated ERR of 15.8%, and its NPV of US$76.9 million
(using a discount rate of 12%). Sensitivity analysis using Monte Carlo simulations shows that the project is
robust with respect to a deterioration in key assumptions. The probability that NPV would become negative or
that the ERR would fall below 10% is negligible.
Unlike education projects in general, most of the benefits of this project are quantifiable. The vocational and
technical education is an "economic" sector having a direct, measurable impact on the economy.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
Financial cost recovery in the public VTE system is presently minimal and difficult to improve under the existing
political enviromnent. Technical assistance under the Project will explore viable mechanisms for improving cost
recovery in the public VTE system. There are substantial benefits accruing to graduates of the public VTE
system as captured in the economic analysis of the Project (Annex 4).
Fiscal impact: Project investments are estimated at about US$68.87 million (including US$3.71 million in local
taxes) over the five year implementation period, 91% of which will be covered by the Bank loan. Recurrent
operating costs (comprising mainly of incremental building and equipment maintenance) are estimated at
US$4.62 million. There will be no incremental staff salaries as the project will not finance new schools and will
gradually increase the student/teacher ratio from 6.7:1 to 12:1. Existing schools will be more cost effective as a
result of: (a) accommodating the 4,800 additional public places (including the 800 new places in "model
schools") in existing school compounds which will result in more efficient operation; and (b) increasing class
size for theoretical subjects.
The annual incremental budgetary requirements for the project are estimated as follows:
1998/99        1999/00         2000/01         2001/02         2002/03       IThereaf
US$0.01 million US$0.40million US$1.11 million US$1.51 million US$1.60 million US$1.60 million
The project is sustainable as the above amounts do not represent an undue burden over existing budgets and are
taken into account in the projected recurrent budgets of the MVTE. The full annual incremental amount after the
project is implemented in 2003 will be about US$1.60 million which represents a 12.8 % increase (in real terms)



Page 12                                       Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
over the 1997 operating budget. The net impact is expected to be less due to diversion of funds from general
education and any cost recovery.
3. Technical
The project was designed in close cooperation with the public and private sector experts and drew on best
practices to ensure that project design was simple and feasible in the Lebanese environment. Each major
component was designed to meet appropriate criteria with respect to: feasibility, flexibility, cost-effectiveness,
sustainability, and responsiveness. Project design would ensure that international and local specialists would
work closely to ensure that related project components and interventions yield the desired outcomes. This would
be accomplished through a well defined Technical Assistance package that would include study visits, training
programs, twinning arrangements, and assistance from national and international specialists. In addition,
consideration was given for incorporation of best practices that can be emulated to help Lebanon meet its needs
for VTE expansion and quality improvement.
4. Institutional
(a) Executing agencies: MVTE created in 1993 is still institutionally weak. Operations are hampered by the
lack of information and limitations in staff with analytical skills particularly in the use of computers. To
overcome this problem the project would finance the fees of local consultants (specialists) for the entire duration
of the five year implementation period. During that period counterpart staff would be trained to take over
towards the end of the project implementation period.
(b) Project management: The recently established TSU under the vocational training component of the ERRP
would become a fully fledged PIU for this Project. Its staff would be trained in all aspects of project
management including procurement, monitoring systems and techniques and financial management. The staff
already selected are of sufficiently high caliber to warrant some degree of confidence, but further orientation and
training would be pursued during the period prior to effectiveness to familiarize them with the Bank's
procedures. CDR staff who are experienced with the procurement of works and equipment and familiar with the
Bank would assist in project implementation.
5. Social
The major social impact issues faced are: access to quality vocational training for the poorer sections of society,
for those in remote areas, and for women. Preliminary assessment confirms that there has been no discrimination
(and none is expected) in access, outcomes and responsibilities to these groups. Therefore, no negative social
impact from the project is expected. As the project expands the public VTE system and enhances the market
potential of graduates, it will benefit the poor who cannot afford private VTE schooling or higher education. The
public VTE system is geographically spread-out encouraging participation by those living in remoter areas.
Incentives and encouragement for higher female enrollment and graduation will be addressed in the VTE
campaigns and image-building component.
Assessment of the main implementation institutions confirmed that there is a strong borrower recognition of, and
commitment to extracting social benefit from the project. The institutional capacity to do so is being
strengthened by the project. The MVTE would collect and analyze data in order to ensure that social impacts are
monitored and addressed throughout the life of the project. Baseline data will be collected during the first
project year.
6. Environmental assessment        Environmental Category []  A     []  B       [x]  C
The proposed project has been cleared for Category C. No adverse environmental impact from the proposed
project is expected. There will be a series of small construction contracts as part of the operation, and
implementing agencies would be required to ensure that appropriate environmental protection measures are taken



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                         Page 13
as part of each construction contract. Training for trades that are likely to be pollution offenders (such as
automotive trades, disposal of chemicals) would be incorporated in the new curricula.
7. Participatory approach           Identification/Preparation    Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups       CON and COL                COL                COL
Private sector/employers            CON and COL                 CON, IS            IS
Intermediary NGOs                   IS and COL                  COL                COL
Academic institutions               CON and COL                 COL                COL
Local government                    CON and COL                 COL                COL
Other donors                        IS and CON                  IS and CON         IS and COL
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
During project preappraisal, a 2.5-day workshop was conducted with a representative sample (30 participants) of
stakeholders who voiced their concerns, and helped to define project objectives and expected outputs. The result
was the project summary presented in Annex 1, which follows the "Logical Framework" method. The summary
describes the CAS objectives, Project Development Objectives, Project Outputs and Project Components
together with the key performance indicators and critical assumptions and risks. These are presented exactly as
they evolved during the workshop.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Institutional Sustainability: The project would contribute to the overall sustainability of the VTE system
through:
(a) Capacitv building activities that would:
* Improve planning and management, strengthen monitoring, and quality control.
* Establish an information system to enable policy formulation and implementation.
* Establish more effective governance.
* Strengthen coordination with other agencies and ministries.
(b) A client-oriented and business-like approach that would:
* Improve the image of the VTE in the eyes of the students and parents resulting in increased VTE
enrollments.
* Establish mechanisms for continuous development of relevant and quality programs.
*  Develop strong linkages with the labor market through MVTE cooperation with the NEO and also through
the direct efforts of the schools to establish liaison with industry and employers in their respective areas.
Financial Sustainabiity: The financial sustainability of the project would be accomplished through:
* Reduction of unit costs, resulting from improved management and introduction of economies of scale in the
VTE schools (increasing their capacity to optimal levels in lieu of building new schools).
* Increased student to teacher ratios.
* Introduction of shorter, more cost-effective training programs for which fees can be charged.
*  Channeling project funds towards cost-effective investments.
* Expanded use of existing VTE schools by the private sector for special fee-paying training programs.
* Improved revenues from fees, production (within acceptable educational parameters) and contributions from
the private sector, which will be explored further in the future.



Page 14                                      Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
2. Critical risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Huik             Biak                    Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project outputs to development objectives
Teachers may not be          NR   New staff evaluation procedures would emphasize the acquisition and
motivated to improve their         use of new skills. This would create an incentive for teachers to
skills through training.           acquire and practice new skills. Interviews with public school
directors and teachers (conducted during project preparation) confirm
that teachers are aware of their shortcomings and want to upgrade their
skills. Moreover, since the majority of teachers are hired on contract
they would have an incentive to upgrade themselves so that their
contracts are renewed on better terms.
MVTE may not use staff skills   NR   MVTE recognizes its weakness in technical areas and there is a plan to
as the basis of job                professionalize all sections of the Ministry. In addition, new
assignments.                       performance evaluation procedures would emphasize the acquisition of
new skills. Therefore, staff would have an incentive to acquire and use
such skills.
Government may not be able    MR   The project will help the Government to strengthen sectoral planning.
to support MVTE expenditures       In addition, the project would have sufficient monitoring indicators
if expansion of the public         and review points through annual plans and budgetary reviews to
sector continues unchecked.        ensure that system expansion is carried out in a controlled manner.
The VTE system may not be    MR   The Government recognizes that it would be difficult to retain quality
able to retain quality teachers   instructors in the VTE system without offering incentives. Several
and instructors.                   schemes are being explored.
Major changes may occur in   MR   In view of the current structure of the Lebanese education system into
the education system that may     three separate ministries, independent decisions that may adversely
affect resource allocations for    affect VTE financing are possible. However, current strong support
the VTE system.                    for VTE reduces the risk for the foreseeable future. Improved planned
coordination efforts among the three education ministries in the future
would also ensure that such a risk is minimized.
VTE certification may not be    NR   Appropriate policies and legislation would be established under the
incorporated as an integral        project to encourage employers to base their hiring and wage structures
aspect of the government's         on the official VTE certification system.
recruitment policy for
technical posts.
Human and material resources   MR   Continuous monitoring and supervision by the PIU and regular reviews
may not be available on a          by the Bank would help identify problems that need government
timely basis.                      attention in a timely manner. The risk is mainly with the provision of
human resources since the Bank Loan would provide a high percentage
of the financing for investment costs minimizing the need for
counterpart funds and incremental budgetary requirements would be
modest.
MVTE may not adopt and       MR   Training of MVTE staff and strict supervision of quality in training
apply quality standards.           programs would minimize the risk.



Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education Project                                   Page 15
Accreditation procedures may    HR    A legal framework with transparent criteria would be set up as the
not be as transparent as               basis for accrediting VTE schools. Regular supervision and re-
desired. Quality standards             accreditation of these schools would also become part of the routine
may not be maintained after            responsibilities of MVTE inspectorate to ensure that standards are
initial accreditation of a VTE         maintained for as long as the schools are in operation.
school.
Overall project risk rating     MR   Risks will be further mitigated by an early implementation review.
Key: HR = High Risk; SR = Substantial Risk; MR = Modest Risk; NR = Low or Negligible Risk
3. Possible controversial aspects
Expanding the public VTE system may be perceived as crowding out private providers of training. However,
although the share of private providers in VTE is about 76%, almost all, with the exception of a few NGOs, are
geared towards service-oriented trades. The few NGOs that provide industrial training, have limited capacity,
are located in urban areas, and charge tuition fees rendering them unaffordable to lower income students. This
market failure necessitates public intervention. The project would assist the Government in defining the
public/private roles with respect to training within a framework of a technically sound VTE policy. This in turn
would lead to a more streamlined and regulated sector approach allowing a synergy of public/private
interventions in areas of comparative advantage.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions14
None
2. Other
None
During negotwitions, the government has confirmed that with respect to:
Accountslaudits
(c) It will keep separate accounts for the project and will ensure that an annual audit is carried out by
independent auditors with respect to: (i) project expenditures; (ii) the two Special Accounts (SAs); and (iii)
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
(d) It will furnish the Bank with the above audit reports within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (Jan-
Dec).
Financial performance
(e) It will provide the required counterpart funds in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Managzemm
(f) It will maintain the PIU, established within MVTE, under terms of reference, and with staff whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank throughout the project implementation period .
(g) It will establish and maintain all technical committees as required by the project.
(h) Coordination teams at each beneficiary school SCU (identified for the first year) will be appointed.
14Based on past Bank experience, signing has taken 1.5 months on average, but effectiveness has taken 7 months on average.
Effectiveness is dependent on Parliamentary ratification and with Parliament in session for only part of the year, the matter is largely
outside the Government's control. Steps have been taken to synchronize the project timetable to the Government's timing.



Page 16                                         Lebanese Republic - Vocational and Technical Education (VTE) Project
Project implementation
(i) It will provide the Bank with semi-annual progress reports (by October 31, covering the period from April
to September, and April30, covering the period from October to March each year) based on an agreed format
(progress, problems/issues, proposed actions to resolve, target dates for critical activities, schedules and cost
estimates).
(j) It will furnish the Bank with an operational plan (by October 31 each year) outlining all activities to be
implemented during the following 12-month period (Lebanese fiscal year - January to December) including
schedules, cost estimates and budgetary requirements (counterpart funds) and resources needed to execute
the plan.
(k) It will carry out, jointly with the Bank, annual implementation reviews in November each year.
(1) It will carry out, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of project implementation on or before April
2001.
(m) It will monitor the agreed list of key performance indicators that relate to project objectives and will report
on these indicators in the regular semi-annual progress reports.
Sectoral policv/regulatory/institutional action
(n) It will develop a national policy on VTE with provisions on: (i) financing of VTE; (ii) reforms in governance
(institutional autonomy and accountability); (iii) quality assurance through improved accreditation and
regulation procedures and performance monitoring of all VTE institutions (public and private) by no later
than December 31, 1999; and (iv) provide the Bank for its review and comment the draft policy document,
and adopt the policy in accordance with an agreed timetable.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The following critical preparatory activities have been carried out:
* Preparation of TORs for the major technical assistance packages.
- Completion of physical surveys of all existing schools.
- Preliminary calculations of additional expansion potential at each existing school.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Vasilios C. Demetriou   Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy    Country Director: Inder K. Sud



Annex 1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Design Summary
(CAS Objective to Bank
CAS Obiectfve                                                                                                              Mission)
1. HumanResources prepared   1. 1               10%  increase of trained   1.1.1  Review of NEO and            1. Viable macroeconomic
to meet challenges of                persons by 2001, 20%  by the          MVTE records, and National   framework
economic development                 end of 2003                           Statistics
2. Political stability
2. Reduce Poverty                   .2;1  Reduction of the                .2 1i1  Review of National
unemployment rate of skilled    . Statistics, and independent
workers to 6% by 2001, and to   reports on employment
5% by the end of 2003, from
the current level of 6.8%
......................................................................  ...........................................................................................................
2.2  25%  difference in salary       2.2.1  Review NEO
level of VTE graduates after 12   statistics, MVTE tracer
months of employment by               system, and National
2001, and 30% by the end of           Statistics
2003, from the current level of
. 20%
........................................................................................   .....................................'.......................    .................................
(Development Objectives to
Project Development Objectives                                                                                         CAS Objectie)
.....................................................I.............................................................................................................................................
1. Performance of VTE                1.1  60%  of VTE graduates            1.1.1  Interview graduates          1. Other sectors (General
system improved                      finding employment in their           review MVTE tracer system           Education and Higher
field within one year of                                                 Education) work in harmony
graduation by 2001, and 80%                                              with MVTE and coordinate
by the end of 2003                                                       their development projects
....................................................... ................ |  ,,,., .,,,,,,,,,, . *among each other
1i2  50%  irncrease in VTE           i  2 1  Review MVTE
enrollment (specific sectors to    records and private audits            2. No major political crisis
be determined) by the end of                                             occurs
2003
3. Growth in the creation of
..................................................................... ...................................................................... ...................................................................
1.3  200 new micro-enterprise    1.3.1  Review MVTE                      new jobs
jobs created by VTE graduates    databases, MOL statistics,
by 2001, 500 new  jobs by the    and MVTE tracer system                  4. Growth in the economy
end of 2003                                                              and access to credit
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-tenn, end of project and full impact.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
......am  ...SNunr                         .... PeOv    mneldca.s                              -Motrn  adCtcaAsumpin    d
Proiect Outguts                                                                                                                             (Outputs to Development
...................................... . ...................................................................................................
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building                                                                              1. Teachers are motivated to
improve their skills through
1. Managementof MVTE                          1 1 aec                            l1                        evw MVTE                      training
strengthened                                  staff in key positions hired by    records
the end of year 2001, and 20                                                               2. MVTE assigns jobs on
total by the end of 2003                                                                 * the basis of staff skills
................................ .. ................                                ..........................................
1.2 60% of MVTE staff.                      . 1.2.1 Review MVTE                            3. Quality of General
trained to improve                            records                                      Education does not
performance in their roles by                                                              deteriorate
the end of 2001, and 90/O by
the end of 2003                                                                            4. Government continues to
support VTE expenditures
1.3 Fully operational VTE                     1.3.1 Review MVTE system  taking into account growth
info-system is in place by end                                                             and planned expansion
of the 3rd project year
5. Government supports
2. VTE  policy developed and   2.1 Draft VTE policy                                          2.1.1 Review MTE                             incentives program for
operational                                   implementation strategy                        records, progress reports                    teachers
completed by end of the Ist
projectyear                                                                                6. VTEcertificationis
formally integrated in the
.......................................................................  ......................................................................  ..................................i;
2.2 New VTE policy                            2.2.1 Review Government   Government's recruitment
approved by government by                     Gazette and MVTE                             policy for technical posts
the middle of the 2nd project    procedures
year                                                                                       7. No major changes occur
at the institutional and policy
R          V..............................................................................................................
3. Image of VTE improved                      3.1 VTE enrollment as a % of  3.1.1 Review MVTE                                             level in the education system
secondary enrollment                          enrollment figures and
(public+private) increases from               Education  Statistics
the current level of 25% to
35% by 2001, and to 50% by
the end of 2003
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......................................................................   ....................................................................................................... 
4. Project activities                       .4.1  Implementation is                          4.1.1  Review MVTE project .
effectively coordinated by the    satisfactory on the basis of                               progress reports, Bank
PIU                                           agreed upon schedules                          supervision reports
............................................................... .................................................................................................................................................
Component 2: Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training Improvement
............................ .............................................................................................................................................................................
5. Training in current and                    5.1 At least 50% of the                        5.1.1  Review entrance
expected demand areas                         growth in VTE graduates will  records, MVTE database
addressed                                     reflect the growth of the                      system
underlying labor market
sectors by 2003



Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
Narratve Sumary                  .y Perora   eldia.r'                                        Oiin  n                            rtia Msmp kw                   n
., .........
6. Quality standards                           6.1 Operational procedures                      6.1.1 Review MTE
developed and adopted for the   and control systems developed   procedures, visit sites
system                                         are functional by the end of
.2003
......................................................................  ........................................................................
6.2 Reduce year I to 2                         6.2.1 Review MVTE
dropout rate from the current    database system, school
25 to 15% by 2001, and to                      statistics
13% by the end of 2003
......................................................................   ...................................                       .......
6.3 Reduce year 2 to 3                           631 ReviewVTE
dropout rate from the current    database system, school
15 to 10% by 2001, and to 8%/   statistics
.by the end of 2003
.............................................................................................................................................  ................................................
6.4 Reduce examination                         6.4.1 Review MVTE
failure rate from the current 50   database system, school
to 45% by 2001, and to 35%                     statistics
by the end of 2003
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
6.5 Increase graduation rate    65r1 Review MVTE
(as a % of initial year                        database system, school
enrollment) from  the current                  statistics
32%, to 37% by 2001, and to
51% by the end of 2003
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0..                                .......................  ......................................................... ..........'
7. Curricula modernized and    7.1  60%  of curricula will be    7.1.1 Review curricula,
upgraded                                       modernized and upgraded by    random school visits, teacher
2001, and 100% by the end of  interviews, MVTE and
2003                                           IPNET records
7;2 A total of 75,000 teacher   72;1 Review MVTE
guides and student manuals                      progress reports, random
printed by 2001, and a total of   school visits, interview
150,000 by the end of 2003                   Istudents and teachers
~~~~~~~~~............................      u  ....                             ...........  ........................... ................... ii.....................
8. Teachers trained                            8.1 20%  of teachers trained in   8 1.1 Review progress
relevant subjects on a yearly                  reports, interview teachers
basis
................................................................w............................ . .................................................
Component 3: Delivery Mechanisms Improved
....................................... ....................... ...'i~.....................................................................
9. Existing VTE schools                      .9.1  Increase the                                9 91.1  Visit school sites,
rationalized and physical and    teacher/student ratio from the    review MVTE information
human resources efficiently                    current 1/6 to 1/9 by 2001, and   databases, interview teachers
used                                         1to 1/12 by the end of 2003                       and administrators, cross-
check with educational
worksheets



Annex I
Page 4 of 9
.Mawr~~~~~~ ~~~~ -v'unmr   Ke P.frac Idators004000000 Moitrig- adT0;0t0t  Critica Assumptionst nd:00i
2  Increase utilization rate of     9.2.1   Visit school sites,
workshops and classrooms to a  review MVTE information
minimum  of 70%  by 2001, and    databases, interview  teachers,
to 80%  by the end of 2003                 cross-check with educational
worksheets
......................................................................               .............................................
.9.3 Upgrade 50% of existing . 9.3.1 Visit sites, review
facilities by 2001, and 100%               MVTE information
by the end of 2003                         databases, progress reports
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                         ..........                ......................................................i-i
10.  Partnerships withprivate             .10.1  "Model Schools"for                   10.1.1   Visitsites, interview
industries developed                       new  fields established and                industry leaders and
operational by the end of the              employers, review MVTE
4th project year                           policies and procedures
..........................................................................................................    .............................................   ...................................
Project Components                                                                                                               (Components to Outputs)
.................. ................................................................................................................................................................................................
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building                                                                 1. Human and material
resources available on a
timely basis
..................................................................................................................................................................................................
1.1-A   Establishing a Planning    Consultants recruited to assist                    Review  progress reports,
and Monitoring Unit in MVTE   . in the design and setting up of                       expenditure (disbursement)               2.  Cooperation from  the
the unit. Local (professional              reports, and Bank supervision    private sector
support) consultants hired. Set
of equipment for the unit                                                           3.  Transparent accreditation
procured (US$0.77 million)                                                          of the private schools
.................................................... .............................. .....................................   .........
1.1-B   Establishing Quality            . Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,                 4.  Adoption and application
and Management Procedures in   in the development of quality                          expenditure (disbursement)               of quality standards
MVTE                                       and management procedures.   reports, and Bank supervision
Local (professional support)             .                                          5.  Cooperation of
consultants hired. Training                                                         beneficiary institutions
workshops conducted
(US$0.81 million)                                                                   6. MVTE support and
continuity of staff in the
l;i1-C   Establishing an                  Consultants recruited to assist            Review progress reports,                  Implementing Team
Information System                         in the design and setting up the    expenditure (disbursement)
unit. Local (professional                  reports, and Bank supervision
support) consultants hired. Set
of equipment for the system
procured (US$0.88 million)
11i. Estabishing Marketing    Consultants recr                     d to assist       Review  progress reports,
and Research Capabilities in               in the development of                      expenditure (disbursement)
MVTE                                      marketing and research                      reports, and Bank supervision
capabilities in MVTE. Field
interviewers recruited. Local
(professional support)
consultants hired. Set of
portable computers procured
(US$1.78 million)



Annex 1
Page S of 9
.a.rative S,mmary              Key Perfo,manc, Indicators.                Mo'i,oring    d               Criti.a ......
Snperv~~~~sion                Ris'~ks%
1.1-E  Strengthening School-    Consultants recruited to assist    Review progress reports,
based Management                    in the design of training            expenditure (disbursement)
programs for school                 reports, and Bank supervision
administrators. Training
workshops (20) conducted
(US$0.18 million)
..   d X ..                  6  ............................................................................................ ................................ !
1.2-A   Develop Strategy for    . Consultants recruited to assist  IReview progress reports,
Implementing VTE Policy             in the development of the            expenditure (disbursement)
strategy (US$0.28 million)          reports, and Bank supervision
1.2-B  Conduct Studly Visits        Ten-day study visits for four        Review progress reports,  *.
for Key MVTE decision               senior officials completed           expenditure (disbursement)
makers                              (US$0.03 million)                    reports, and Bank supervision
1.2-C   Strengthening the           Consultants recruited to assist    Review progress repor s,
Regulatory Framework                in strengthening the regulatory    expenditure (disbursement)
framework (US$0.22 million)    reports, and Bank supervision
1.3-A  Improving the VTE          3 Consultants recruited to advise    Review progress reports,
Image                               on the design and strategy for    expenditure (disbursement)
the campaigns. Media                reports, and Bank supervision
campaigns launched (US$2.70
million)
.......................             ............................................................  ................................
1.4-A  Establishing a PIU    .    Professional and support staff    Review progress reports,
recruited to coordinate project    expenditure (disbursement)
activities. Office equipment,    reports, and Bank supervision
computers including software
and peripherals procured
(US$1.97 million)
................... ....................................................................... ...................... ...................................................................
1.4-B  Training of PIU Staff        Training in office                   Review progress reports,
management, procurement and   expenditure (disbursement)
Bank procedures completed           reports, and Bank supervision
(US$0.07 million)
1.4.-C  Strengthening of PIU    3Consultants recruited to assist  3Review progress reports,               3
in Planning, Monitoring and         in developing planning and           expenditure (disbursement)
Reporting                           monitoring procedures and            reports, and Bank supervision
tools (US$0.06 million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......................................................................  ........................  . ....1   ..
1.4-D  General Consultations    Local consultants recruited to          Review progress reports,
for PIU and MVTE (legal and    assist in various legal and               expenditure (disbursement)
technical)                          technical matters (US$0.06           reports, and Bank supervision
million)
1.4-E  Support for Poject            Annual budget of about              Review progress reports,
Management                          US$0.03 provided for the             expenditure (disbursement)
operation of the PIU and the        reports, and Bank supervision
Technical Committees
(US$0.20 million)



Annex 1
Page 6 of 9
.Narratiavh            :um.                Ke   Perl-ormance Indica tors              000:i:00gES Moioing0 and :0-0:-it040-tS0Cr itka         um ption   and-j;t:
Componentt2: Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training
2.1-A   Methodology for                    Consultants recruited to assist   . Review  progress  reports,
Addressing Current and                     in the development of the                  expenditure (disbursement)
Expected Training Demand                  methodology US$0.05                       .reports, and Bank supervision
.million)
...............................             ...   ...... . ..............    .......,'
2.1-B      Needs Assessment   .            Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
MVTE design and conduct                    expenditure (disbursement)
. needs  assessment  activities             reports, and Bank supervision
(US$1.39 million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............................4...................................................................i
2.1-C   Database Access                    Annual budget of about                     Review  progress reports,
VUS$002 million for  database              expenditure (disbursement)
.        access  provided (US$0 12         reports, and Bank supervision
. million)
.  T    ...5             ............................   ...........................................  .............................................
2.1-D   Establishing School                Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
Boards                                     MVTE design the structure and    expenditure (disbursement)
.cTORs for  the  School Boards             reports, and Bank supervision
(US$009 million)
2.2-A   Defining and                       Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
Implementing Quality                       MVTE deiene and implement   expenditure (disbursement)
Standards                                  quality standards  US$0.40                 reports, and Bank supervision
* million)
~~~~~~~~.             ...................................................................................   ............................................
2.2-B   Defining and                       Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
Implementing Certification and    MVTE define and implement                           expenditure (disbursement)
Validation   rocedures                     certification anda validation              reports, and Bank supervision
lprocedures US$0.54 million)
~~~~~~~~~.             ............. ............................................................................................. .....................i;
2.2-C   Defining and                     .Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
Implementing Accreditation    . MVTE define and implement    expenditure (disbursement)
Vrocedures                                 accreditation procedures                   reports, and Bank supervision
(US$0  54  million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   ...............................................- 1 
2.3-A      Developing Modem.        .      Consultants recruited to assist            Review  progress reports,
Curricula for New Fields                  MVTE develop curricula mn                   expenditure (disbursement)
* new  fields (US$1.51 million)             reports, and Bank supervision
..............................................  ............................................................................................... ..................................
2.3-B   Developing Modem                   Consultants recruited to assist           Review  progress reports,
Curricula for Retraining in Key    MVTE develop curricula for                         expenditure (disbursement)
Sectors                                 . retraining in key sectors                  reports, and Bank supervision
.(US$0.76 million)
2.3-C   Developing Modern                *Consultants recruited to assist             Review  progress reports,
Curricula for In-service                 . MVTE develop curricula for                 expenditure (disbursement)
Training Programs                          in-service training programs               reports, and Bank supervision
(US$0.48 million)



Annex I
Page 7 of 9
0 0t.-.,..,.,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   .........-  
NarraliveSumm ~ ~~~~ .   .... dXyerrnue1-ndi tors.:.....    Moi to.. r....           .n..ri.....A...p......
2.3-D   Developing Modemn               Local consultants recruited to           Review progress reports,
Curricula for Entrepreneurship  . assist MVTE develop curricula    expenditure (disbursement)
Programs                              *.for entrepreneurship  programs    reports, and Bank  supervision
(US$0.11 million)
2.3-E   Development and               .Consultants recruited to assist   .Review progress reports,
Automation of Examinations              MVTE develop and automate                expenditure (disbursement)
System                                  the examinations system                 reports, and Bank supervision*
(US$0.38 million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                             ...   ..........                                        ...   .. .
2.3-F   Development  and                LoConsultants recruited  to assist      Review progress reports,
Production of Teacher Guides   .                M VTE  develop  teacher guides    expenditure (disbursement)
and  Student Materials                  and student materials (US$4.80   reports, and Bank supervision
.million). Printing and
.distribution of 150,000 items
. completed(US$1.50million)
.............. ........................................................ ..........  
2.4-A   Training  of Trainers for   Consultants recruited to                     Review progress reports,
Pre-service Training Programs              develop  pre-service programs         expenditure (disbursement)
* for trainers.  Workshops                reports, and Bank supervision
conducted (US$1.20 million)
.............................................  .................................................................   .........................................................  
2.4-B   Training  of Trainers for   Consultants recruited to                   . Review progress reports,
Retraining Programs                   . develop  pre-service  programs        expenditure (disbursement)
. for trainers. Workshops                 reports, and Bank supervision
. conducted (US$0.60 million)
...................................................................... ............................................................................ .........................................................
2.4-C   Training of Trainers for   Consultants recruited to                      Review progress reports,
In-service Training Programs            develop in-service training              expenditure (disbursement)
programs for trainers.                3 reports, and Bank supervision
3Workshops conducted33
3 (US$0.50 million)          3l
.....................................................................   .......  ...........................................
2.4-D   Training of Trainers for   Consultants recruited to                      Review progress reports,
Entrepreneurship Programs               develop entrepreneurship                 expenditure (disbursement)
programs for trainers. W                reports, and Bank supervision
3Workshops conducted3 
n(US$0.37 million)     mlin
......................................................................  ..............................................  .......
2.4-E   Upgrading of Existing           Ten 2-week workshops for               3 Review progress reports,            3
VTE Teachers                         33 groups of 20 teachers                    expenditure (disbursement)
prconducted annually. Twenty            reports, and Bank supervision
34-week workshops for groups 33
Wof 20teachers conducted
annually (US$2.20m million)



Annex I
Page 8 of 9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                 . . .       ., , , , ,.g. , . ,  . .gl,,,,
Naraiv Summary                  Ke Prfrm nc Iicars                                        Moitrigan   ..                     Crit'Ical Asup ion   d.
........                                                    O~~~~~~Spervision                               Riks
Component 3: Delivery Mechanisms Improved
3.1-A  Planning and Design                    Architectural consultants                      Review progress reports,
Phase for Upgrading and                       recruited to design and                        expenditure (disbursement)
Expanding Existing VTE                        supervise rehabilitation and                   reports, and Bank supervision
Schools                                       expansion of existing VTE
schools. Rehabilitation and
expansion plan completed by
consultants and approved by
MVTE (US$1.52 million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ............................................................ ........ 
3.1-B  Construction Activities   Rehabilitation of existing VTE   Review progress reports,
in Existing VTE Schools                       schools completed (US$13.61    expenditure (disbursement)
million)                                      reports, and Bank supervision
........................ ...............................................................................................................................
3.1-C  Enhancement of                         50% of the library books and    Review progress reports,
Existing VTE School Libraries   other media procured during                                  expenditure (disbursement)
the second project year and                   reports, and Bank supervision
50% in the third year (US$0.54
million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................................................................................................................... ..........''
3.1-D  Educational Materials    Sets of educational materials                                Review progress reports,
for Existing VTE Schools                      procured during the second and  expenditure (disbursement)
* third project years (US$0.32                  reports, and Bank supervision
million)
~~~~~~~...............................................................................................................ii
3.1-E  Furnishing Existing                    Furniture procurement for                      Review progress reports,
VTE Schools                                   existing VTE schools to start    expenditure (disbursement)
by early 1999 (US$1.37                        reports, and Bank supervision
million)
.....................................................................   .................................   ..4..................................
3.1-F  Equipping Existing                     Master lists of equipment                      Review progress reports,
VTE Schools                                   prepared by late 1998.                         expenditure (disbursement)
Equipment procurement for                     reports, and Bank supervision
existing VTE schools to start
by early 1999 (US$11.65
million)
~~~~~~~............................................................................   ..........  ..   ....................................................;..;..
3.2-A  Development of New    *Consultants recruited to                                       Review progress reports,
Fields in Existing VTE Schools  conduct feasibility studies for    expenditure (disbursement)
new fields of specialization                  reports, and Bank supervision
(US$0.86 million)
.........................................  ..................................................  ........................................................
3.2-B  Planning and Design of  Architectural consultants                                     Review progress reports,
Facilities for New  Fields                    recruited during the first                     expenditure (disbursement)
project year to prepare                       reports, and Bank supervision
proposals (US$0.78 million)
~~~~~~~~...................   .....................................................                                       ........................................  
3.2-C  Construction of                        Bidding for works to be invited  Review progress reports,
Facilities for New Fields                     by September 2000 (US$4.43    expenditure (disbursement)
million)                                      reports, and Bank supervision



Annex 1
Page 9 of 9
~~~~~. .......Narlv  u m r                 Ke....rm n .dctr                                       -Momon   anfd                           rtcI        au pin 
.,  ..,  . ..   ,, ...  .f, ...                                                                                                         .   .;.,....,. 
3.2-D  Furnishing of Facilities   Bidding for furniture                                      Review progress reports,
for New Fields                                procurement to be invited by                   expenditure (disbursement)
December 2000 (US$0.45                        reports, and Bank supervision
million)
......................................................................   ,~ .........................................................................................
3.2-E  Equipping of Facilities   Bidding for equipment                                       Review progress reports,
for New Fields                                procurement to be invited by                   expenditure (disbursement)
December 2000 (US$6.52                        reports, and Bank supervision
million)






Annex la
Lebanese Republic
Ministry of Vocatfonal & Technical Education                  *  -   tIj¶
THE MINISTER                                                   ;,
February 6th, 1998
Mr. Jacques Baudouy
Director, Human Development Group
Middle East & North Afrca Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Baudouy,
Please find attached the Vocational and Technical Education Policy
Statement as approved by the Ministry of Vocational and Technical
Education.
Sincerely yours,
Minister of Vocational and
Technical Education
Farouk Barbir



LAoba  Ropublic
Ministry of Vocational & Technical Education
vocational & Technical Education Policy Statement
In accordance with the policy of Ehc Lebanese government in rebuilding the Lebanese
econioimiy, tlhc Ministry of Vocational & Technical Education is planning to fulfill its
rolc as an active party iL aLis process. To achieve its objectives, the ministry adopted
a policy which aims at improving the technical education system with special
cmphasis on ilproving administration, developing modem curricula, improvirig the
quality and efriciency of teachers and supporting students. The new policy originates
from  the nacd of the LUbaucsc economy and the labor market, The general omtlii;cs of
thc new policy arc as follows:
1- dnministration;
1- E-mploying the requihe41 btiff in all the departmcnts of the ministry and activaLing
the  depurtments of planning, research and studies, information and technical
services.
2- Updating  cxisting  adniuisLrative  procedures, employing  specialists with
appropriate skills anid Lraining the present staff.
3- r7ormulating alul crftive system to enhance the links between private schools and
the ministry.
4- Reviewing und upgrading the existing regulations to concur with the policy.
5- DcvelopIng a cooperatioin mioluinism with other ministries.
11- Curricula and TeacWina Staff
I- Taking all the necessary mcasures to jipIceent ihe new govemnmental regulations
which orgaize Llic cducation sector in Lebanon, especially in relation to
Vocatiinal and Technical Education.
2- UptaLing and developing the existing specialization in accordance with the needs
of tho labor market.
3- Producing new schoul text books complianL with modem educational systems.
j Training the existing teaching saff in compliance with the new policy to raise the
efFicicncy and enhance tle capabilities of the teaching body.
5- Activating tLle Tachnical Education Institute to fit the dynamic plans of the
matistry.
6- Establishing accntral library, archive and data base in the ministry.
7- Establishing tcChIical libraies and archives in technical schools.
8.. Modemizing laboratories, workshops and equipment in technical schools.
m1I- Students
1 Incrcasing student wiusolllnnt in technical educatilon at secondary level, to achieve
the targctAcd percentage of all secondary students set by the ministry.
2- Encouraging studeat cnrollment in public technical schools and achieving a
bulanced distribution or students between private and public schools.
3- Regulating thc geographical distribution of students and schools and limiting
migration to urban areas.
4- Making accelcratcd training courses available in all sectors according to the need.
5- Encouraging students to enroll in vocational education at all levels.



Annex 2
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
1.    Given the considerable assistance MVTE is receiving from other donors (Arab Fund, Islamic
Development Bank, and OPEC) for physical expansion (18,000 new places), the Project concentrates in
strengthening institutional and managerial capacities (component 1), addressing relevance and quality
aspects (component 2), and on optimizing existing VTE schools through rehabilitation and selective
expansion to meet emerging needs, and exploring the creation of new "model schools" in collaboration
with private sector industries (component 3).
2.    The project comprises three components: Component 1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity
Building; Component 2. Relevance, Responsiveness & Quality of Training Improvement; and Component
3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement. A detailed description by component, subcomponent and activity
is presented below. Project Summary tables are presented in Annex 3.
Component 1. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building (US$10.01 million1)
(a)    Strengthening Management & Efficiency of the VTE System (US$4.43 million)
(i)    Strengthening MVTE Planning & Monitoring Activities (US$0.77million): Assist the
MVTE to define the needs of its proposed planning unit, to conduct continuous audit and
control of VTE system activities, and to provide guidance when there is need for
adaptation, modification, strengthening, or discontinuation of specific programs/activities.
Technical assistance would be expected to continue throughout the life of the project, in
view of anticipated changes in general education, and its overall impact on VTE. The
Project wouldfinance: international and local experts to assist in the organizational
design of the unit; training workshops; and the salaries of key professional staff (to be
hired on contract basis) to initiate the operation and train permanent staff to take over
planning, quality and control monitoring, information system and research functions.
(ii)   MVTE Quality & Management Procedures (US$0.81 million): Development of quality
assurance operational manuals and procedures based on ISO-9000. The Project would
finance: international specialists to develop the procedures and assist in the
preparation of the manuals; localfacilitators to train personnel concerned with the use
and application of the quality procedures; workshops; and the salaries of key
professional staff (to be hired on contract basis) to initiate the new procedures.
(iii)   MTE Information System (US$0.88 million): Development of a computerized
information system. The system would include a module on infrastructure to help MVTE
keep track of all physical property (buildings, furniture and equipment). It would also
assist in policy formulation with respect to existing schools upgrading, expansion and
maintenance of the Ministry's physical assets, and defining and introducing standards for
their maintenance. The system would monitor various education indicators, such as:
acceptance rates, dropout rates, repetition rates, success rates, efficiency rates including
an overall indicator of efficiency and average time to produce a graduate for each school.
XThis and subsequent statements represent total estimated costs including contingencies.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
The system would also be used to analyze local labor market data for program planning
purposes, and provide student career guidance. The system would be PC-based and
would be configured to link all VTE schools with MVTE. The Project wouldfinance:
international and local specialists to assist in the design and configuration of the
system; computer hardware and software; related training for MVTE staff to operate
the computerized database and other relatedfunctions; and the salaries of key
professional staff (to be hired on contract basis) to initiate the operation of the new
system.
(iv)   Marketing Research & Surveys (US$1.78 million): Designing and conducting four broad
types of surveys: Administrative survy, fielded electronically through the installed
MVTE Information System to address the information needs of the MVTE planners.
Qualiv Survv, aimed at providing a quantitative assessment of the implementation of
quality programs in training (students and teachers), and curricula. Market SurveYvs,
fielded longitudinally to the same representative sample of enterprises over time. The
first year survey would be followed by a similar survey every two years. The survey
would cover issues related to employment, compensation, training, technology, and
Tracer Survy of VTE graduates, aimed to increase the linkage with the labor market,
and to provide each VTE school with adequate and timely feedback on its performance
relative to the labor market. A baseline tracer survey of recent VTE graduates would be
initiated at the start of the project and would be updated annually. The Project would
finance: international and local specialists to design the surveys and draft TORs for
field research; local specialists (market researchers, statisticians) to administer, collect
and analyze the data; printing and dissemination offindings and recommendations;
and the salaries of key professional staff (to be hired on contract basis) to initiate and
operate the new system.
(v)    Strengthening School-Based Management (US$0.1 8million): Providing managerial skills
training to the school principals and administration staff and preparing them for efficient
management of school resources. The Project wouldfinance: international and local
specialists to design the training programs; and a series of workshops.
(b)   Developing VTE policies (US$0.53 million)
(i)    MITE Strategy Developmen (US$0.28 million): Preparation of a VTE strategy
designed to respond to the long-term economic development of the country. It would
address the role of MVTE in relation to the VTE system: its organization, administration,
budget and resources. It would also explore different education alternatives, such as the
modular training system and accelerated training, tD encourage students to enroll in VTE,
and upgrading of teaching staff to improve quality of training. The Govenment's draft
VTE Policy Statement (Annex 1 a) will provide the basis for developing the strategy and
action plan for implementation. Preparations would start by the end of the first year of
implementation and would involve a panel of high level experts with international
experience in strategy and policy formulation in VTE. Separate studies would be
undertaken to explore mechanisms for improving cost recovery, and increasing women's
participation in the labor market and in high-paying jobs. The Project wouldfinance
international and local specialists to assist MVTE develop the strategy; and conduct
related training, and studies in relation to the VTEF system, its organization, budget and
resources.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
(ii)   Study Visits (US$0.03 million): Organizing a series of study visits for senior MVTE
officials to selected countries to observe "Best Practices" of relevance to the Lebanese
VTE system, particularly with reference to the participation of the private sector and
coordination with secondary and higher education, and cost recovery mechanisms. The
Project wouldfinance the study visits andfollow-up activities as needed to formulate
actions based on the lessons learned.
(iii)   Regulatory & Legal Framework (US$0.22 million): The drafting of regulations and
provision of the legal framework to enable MVTE to enact its role as determined in the
MVTE strategy. Regulations for not-for-profit NGO schools, and for-profit schools
operated by the private sector would be included. It would also address issues regarding
the proposed changes to existing laws, regulations, and procedures affecting project
implementation. The Project wouldfinance: international and local specialists to
provide assistance in drafting the regulatory framework; a series of workshops to
enable MVTE staff to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills to perform regulatory
and accreditation functions.
(c)    VTE Image Improvement (US$2.70 million): Preparation and launching by MVTE of
campaigns to disseminate infornation about VTE. The campaigns would aim to correct the
distorted image of VTE, particularly for VTE schools in the public sector. This activity would be
designed to coincide with the deployment of the new VTE initiatives. Various types of local
media would be selected based on an assessment of their intended impact. The Project would
finance: international specialists to assist with the education media campaign and local
specialists to carry out the VTE image campaign; and media costs.
(d)    Project Implementation Unit (US$2.35 million): The existing Technical Support Unit (TSU)
under the Vocational Education component of the ERRP will form the basis of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). Technical assistance would be provided to develop project
management operational manuals, and systems and tools, including progress reports to monitor
implementation progress. Related training would also be arranged for PIU and MVTE staff to
enhance the staff's capabilities and maximize the use of modem technology and computers. The
Project wouldfi nance: salaries of the PIU staff (to be hired on contract basis); office
equipment and computers; trainingforfamiliarization with Bank procedures andprocurement;
technical assistance for planning and management procedures andfor legal aspects; and
operational support for project management activities (supervision, monitoring, etc.).
Component 2. Improvement of Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training (US$17.12
million)
(a)    Addressing Current and Expected Training Demand (US$1.64 million)
(i)    Methodology (US$0.05 million): Development of a competency assessment
methodology applicable to the Lebanese economic environment. The methodology
would determine the mechanism for deriving key competency needs for skilled workers
and for technicians in the major industrial and service sectors. It would also define tools
and approaches required for implementation, as well as regular and flexible mechanisms
for subsequent revision and updating. An integral element of introducing the competency
assessment methodology will be achieved through the introduction of workshops aimed at
disseminating practical information to enterprises and VTE schools on human resources
techniques and tools, the role and impact of training, the application of competency needs
and profiles, and promote training to enterprises (pre-, in-service, and retraining). The



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
workshops would also help schools in understanding the adaptation of competency
profiles into curricula. The Project wouldfinance international and local specialists to
assist in the development of the methodology and to conduct workshops.
(ii)    Needs Assessment (US$1.51 million): A needs assessment would be carried out at the
enterprise level, following the procedures established through the methodology described
above. A representative sample of enterprises would be selected in targeted sectors.
Surveys would be designed, and information disseminated to key decision makers for
hiring and forecasting demand within a given enterprise. Results would be aggregated by
industry, field specialty, and level (BT, TS). The surveys would also collect information
aimed at gauging demand from the private sector for pre-service, in-service training,
retraining, and entrepreneurship programs on a regular basis. Attention would be paid to
the needs of women by identifying specializations that would help them obtain skills for
high-paying jobs away from traditional female occupations. A database would be
established to ensure current updating on the status of the local and regional markets, with
reference to labor demands, exports, industry formations, etc. The Project would
finance: a team of international specialists and local survey specialists, labor
economists, and statisticians who would assist in the data analysis and present findings
at annual seminars; and provide access to local and international databases, and
internet sites.
(iii)   School Boards (US$0.09 million): Each VTE school would establish an advisory School
Board composed of representatives from enterprises, the school's management and
teaching staff, parents, and students. Support staff from the school would serve as
secretariats for the Boards. The Boards would meet periodically to discuss market needs,
skill levels and profiles required, establish procedures for the selection and placement of
VTE students, and play an advisory role in the development and govemance of the
schools. The Project wouldfinance international and local specialists to define the role
of these Boards and to draft operational procedures and TORs; and other incidental
expenditures associated with Board activities.
(b)    Developing Quality Standards (US$1.09 million): Three broad families of quality standards
would be developed. Training Quality Standards would address benchmark definition, and
performance indicators for education quality improvement. These standards would involve
quality of education output, teacher output, and administration efficiency. Certification &
Validation Standards would address the requirements, and would establish the procedures for
VTE graduates certification and validation for pre-service training. These standards would
involve the establishment of the minimum requirements for degree equivalency for local and
foreign VTE graduates, and the certification criteria for in-service trainees. Accreditation
Standards would address the requirements for accrediting VTE institutions both public and private
(NGOs, and private for-profit). These standards would address the requirements for accrediting
schools, and degrees offered, and provide the regulatory framework for accreditation. The
Project wouldfinance international and local specialists to define quality standards,
monitoring of their implementation, and related training.
(c)    Developing Modern Curricula (US$9.53 million)
(i)    Pre-Service New Fields (US$1.51 million): Development of curricula for the new fields
of specialization as well as updating existing curricula. The Project wouldfi-nance
international and local specialists to assist in developing the curricula, and the
development and testing of instructional materials (print and audiovisual).



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
(ii)   Retraining (US$0.76 million): Development of curricula for retraining programs to
provide workers with the skills needed by enterprises. Most employers have expressed an
urgent need to retrain a significant segment of their workers. The retraining would focus
on upgrading and developing skills required for operating new processes and equipment.
The Project wouldfinance international and local specialists to liaise with industries
and MVTE and assist in the design of special training programs.
(iii)  In-Service Training (US$0.48 million): Development of curricula for programs to
upgrade worker's skills. A typical SME can generally send very few employees for
training outside at any given time. Therefore, developing specially designed training
programs to be conducted within the enterprise--focusing on enhancing worker's skills in
the areas of production and quality control--would be cost-effective and respond to
immediate needs. The Project wouldfinance the same group of experts providing
technical assistance in retraining to provide guidance in designing short duration
programs.
(iv)   Entrepreneurship Training (US$0.11 million): Development of curricula for
entrepreneurship training (either in pre-service or in-service) to enable VTE graduates to
start their own SMEs and microenterprises often following some work experience. This
type of training as a complement to technical subjects, would introduce students to the
fundamentals of project design and presentation, cost estimates, contract preparation,
book keeping, invoicing, taxation, contracting, and business law, through the use of PC-
based computer applications (off-the-shelf software). The majority of the Lebanese
enterprises would be characterized as SMEs or microenterprises employing less than 10
workers. Most VTE graduates aspire to be entrepreneurial and owning their own
business. In fact, the vast majority of the enterprises are family owned. Prospective
owner-managers, however, have very little experience managing an enterprise or owning
a business. The Project wouldfinance local specialists to assist in the development of
curricula for entrepreneurship training.
(v)    Examinations Development (and automation) (US$0.38 million): Development of exams
related to the new curricula in three languages (Arabic, English, French). An archive of
questions would be developed and a process would be established for fielding the exam
questions to each school electronically via a WAN (Wide Area Network). The Project
wouldfi nance international and local specialists to assist in the development of
examinations and the creation of an electronic archiving system.
(vi)   Teacher Guides and Student Manuals Production (US$6.30 million): Development and
production of teachers' guides, student manuals, and teaching aides for pre-service, in-
service, and entrepreneurship training. Textbooks would be produced in English, French,
Arabic as appropriate, and would be made available to students at a reasonable cost. The
Project wouldfinance: international and local specialists to develop and test the
materials; and printing and distribution of the materials to all public VTE schools.
(d)   Improving Pre- and In-Service Training of Teachers (US$4.86 million)
(i)    Training of Trainers for Pre-Service Programs (US$1.20 million): Training IPNET
faculty to train teachers for pre-service programs in new industry fields. The emphasis
would be on programs for new fields at the model schools. The Project wouldfinance:
international and local specialists to assist in the design of the training programs; and
related training activities.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
(ii)    Training of Trainers for Retraining Programs (US$0.60 million): Development of
suitable retraining programs for trainers. MVTE would train a select group of teachers to
be designated retrainers. The Project wouldfinance: international and local specialists
to assist in the design of the training programs; and related training activities.
(iii)   Training of Trainers for In-Service Training (US$0.50 million): Designing and
conducting of in-service training programs for IPNET faculty. A selected group of
teachers based on competency assessment would be trained as trainers, and would acquire
industrial experience through practical exposure in nearby industries. IPNET would
monitor and report on the number of trainers trained, number of industrial intemships,
and the quality of training. The same group of specialists employed in the curricula
development for in-service training would be involved in this activity. Technical
Committees would evaluate the program. The Project wouldfinance: international and
local specialists to assess the situation and design suitable training programs; and
related training activities.
(iv)   Training of Trainers for Entrepreneurship Training (US$0.37 million): Designing and
conducting entrepreneurship programs for IPNET faculty to promote self-employment
and the creation of microenterprises, the majority of which are family owned.
Prospective owner-managers, have little experience managing an enterprise or owning a
business. The core group of trainers would visit each VTE school, and offer workshops
and seminars on entrepreneurial management based on the curricula developed by the
specialists mentioned earlier [Component 2(c)(iv), Entrepreneurship Training]. The same
group of specialists would be employed to select and train the core group of trainers. This
training would eventually be integrated into the school syllabus. The Project would
finance: local specialists to assist in the design ofprograms andformulation of a
strategy and plan to implement entrepreneurship training; and related training.
(v)    Upgrading of Existing VTE Teachers (US$2.20 million): Training of current MVTE
teachers based on the training curricula developed by the specialists mentioned earlier
[Component 2 (c)]. It is estimated that 1,500 teachers would be trained according to two
schedules (2-week and 4-week programs). The Project wouldfinance: international
and local specialists to assist in the design of training programs; and related training.
Component 3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement (US$41.74 million)
(a)    Expansion & Retrofitting of Existing Schools (US$29.00 million): The purpose is to explore
ways of optimizing existing facilities. This component would support the preparation of a
complete physical survey of all existing public VTE schools (sites, buildings, equipment, and
furniture). Analysis of the training requirements would follow to establish the extent to which
these facilities meet existing and future needs of the area. The analysis would be aided by the
database developed by the specialists mentioned earlier [Component 1 (a)(iii), MVTE Information
System]. It is estimated that about 3,000-4,000 new places can be created within existing VTE
schools. This expansion would be accomplished at lower costs than constructing new schools due
to economies of scale for management and teacher resource allocations as well as for utilities and
basic infrastructure which already exist. Based on the current developments in curricula which
are increasing the time devoted to practical subjects and decreasing those for theoretical subjects,
schools may have surplus classrooms or boarding facilities that can be converted into light
workshops or labs (library or other uses). Already, boarding facilities at existing schools may be
converted to other uses. The Project wouldfi nance: works for the rehabilitation and selective'
expansion at existing school sites; library books; educational materials; furniture; equipment;



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
andprofessional services (architectural and engineering) for the design and supervision of the
works.
(b)   Development of New Model Schools (US$12.74 million)
(i)    Feasibility Studies & Needs Assessment of Key Sectors (US$0.86 million): The
feasibility of creating special schools in certain growth industries would be assessed
through studies. "Model Schools" focusing on new fields of specialization characterized
as strategic for the economy or with export potential have been identified on a
preliminary basis (for example: graphic arts and printing, clothing, industrial engineering,
agri-mechanics and food technology). These new specializations would create higher
earning jobs and some would be particularly attractive to women. The Project would
finance international and local specialists to undertake the study, and conduct the
dialog with the identified stakeholders.
(ii)   Creation of Four New "Model Schools" (US$11.88 million): Four Model Schools would
be established in collaboration with private sector industries within the compounds of
existing school sites. Upgrading, expansion and modification would take place to
accommodate the specific space and configuration requirements of each school. It is
anticipated that the private sector would be instrumental in securing equipment for the
schools. The school for graphic arts proposed by the graphic arts syndicate could be used
as a pilot. The organization has completed a study to create a school responding to their
needs in skilled workers, technicians and middle managers. This sector is probably the
most competitive at the regional level, including sales to European Union countries. The
Project wouldfinance: works; furniture; equipment; andprofessional services
(architectural and engineering) for the design and supervision of the works.



Annex 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHMCAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs by Project Component
%as    %of
For-     Total
Project Component                       Local Foreign   Total   eign  Base cost
-----In US$ million-------
1. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building
(a) Strengthening Management & Efficiency of VTE System     2.42     1.33    3.75     35          6
(b) Developing VTE Policies                                 0.17     0.30    0.47     64          1
(c) Improving VTE Image                                     1.80     0.44    2.25     20          4
(d) Establishing & Maintaining a Project Management Unit    1.39     0.55    1.95     28          3
Subtotal    5.79     2.62    8.41     31         14
2. Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training
Improvement
(a) Addressing Current & Expected Training Demand           0.51     0.95    1.46     65          3
(b) Developing Quality Standards                            0.28     0.70    0.98     71          2
(c) Developing Modem Curricula                              3.38     4.95    8.34     59         14
(d) Improving Pre- & In-Service Training of Teachers        2.50     1.59    4.09     39          7
Subtotal    6.68     8.19   14.87     55         26
3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement
(a) Upgrading/Expanding Existing Public VTE Schools         8.86    15.19   24.05     63         41
(b) Developing "Model Schools" in New Sectors               3.14     7.59   10.74     71         18
Subtotal   12.00    22.79   34.79     65         60
Total Baseline Cost                                         24.47    33.60   58.06      58       100
Physical Contingencies                                     1.77     2.82    4.59     61          8
Price Contingencies                                        4.38     1.84    6.22     30         11
Total Project Cost                                          30.62    38.25   68.87      56       119
Incremental Recurrent Cost (not included in Total Project Cost)  2.59  2.03    4.62     44         8
Taxes (included in Total Project Cost)                       3.71        -    3.71       -         6
Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Project Costs by Expenditire Category
%as       % of
For-     Total
Expenditure Category                       Local  Foreign   Total   eign  Base cost
------- --In US$ million--
1. Investment Costs
(a) Civil Works                                         7.99     6.46   14.45      45        25
(b) Goods
Equipment                                       1.59     14.30   15.90     90         27
Furniture                                       0.80      0.65    1.45     45          2
Computers                                       0.02      0.15    0.17     90          0
Computer Software                               0.01      0.13    0.14     90          0
Library Books                                   0.14      0.31    0.45     70          1
Textbooks                                       0.49      0.72    1.21     60          2
Subtotal     3.05     16.26   19.31      84        33
(c) Training
Overseas Training                               0.01      0.05    0.06     90          0
Local Training                                  2.50      0.27    2.78     10          5
Study Visits                                    0.00      0.02    0.03     90          0
Subtotal     2.51      0.35    2.86      12         5
(d) Services
International Specialists                       0.91      8.04    8.95     90         15
Local Specialists                               9.89      2.44   12.33     20         21
Project Management                              0.12      0.05    0.17     30          0
Subtotal    10.91     10.53   21.44      49        37
Total Baseline Cost                                           24.47     33.60   58.07     58        100
Physical Contingencies                                  1.77     2.82    4.59      61          8
Price Contingencies                                     4.38      1.84    6.22     30         11
Total Project Cost                                            30.62     38.25   68.87     56        119
Incremental Recurrent Cost (not included in Total Project Cost)  2.59    2.03    4.62     44          8
Taxes (included in Total Project Cost)                         3.71         -    3.71                 6
Note:   Totals may not add up due to rounding



Annex 4
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Estimating the Economic Internal Rate of Return
Economic Rationale for Public Sector Involvement
1.    Lebanon has an active private and public VTE sector. As such, it would appear that there is no
rationale for creating new publicly funded and administered VTE schools. However, public intervention
is essential for improving the cost-effectiveness, regulation and quality of the system as a whole.
Furthermore, there is a market failure with respect to training in industrial trades. This is understandable
in view of the high costs involved in setting up such training facilities. The system has to plan for filling
the needs of future labor market needs.
2.    Intervention. In addition to making up for the private sector gap with respect to industrial
training', there is a strong scope for benefits arising from interventions in areas which, by their nature,
require public sector involvement. These are: (a) regulation, (b) quality-setting through creation of a
good accreditation and examination system, (c) upgrading of curricula in response to change, (d)
development of related course materials and textbooks, (e) provision of improved management of the
public VTE and regulatory system, and (f) other administrative, institutional and regulatory functions.
These externalities accrue benefits to the VTE system: increased quantity of graduates resulting from
better organisation, use of resources and management; increased quality of skills and knowledge
imparted, and; new skills introduced. These benefits will accrue to the producers, who will obtain better
quality workers and to the graduates who will receive higher wages. This is especially true in those
economic sectors that will be of high growth, such as printing, but which require a supply of skilled labor
trained on expensive machinery which private schools may find too risky and costly to invest in.
3.    Poverty Reduction. Another rationale for public sector intervention is the current inequitable
access to vocational training. The project targets the lower income and disadvantaged sections of society
improving the access to quality vocational training. This benefit is included in the quantitative analysis.
Appropraene,is of the Structure of the Project and Intervention
4.    Avenue for Poverty Reduction. The intervention would increase access to skilled careers for the
lower income and economically disadvantaged sections of society. The private sector's ability or
willingness to do this is low.
5.    Conformnity with Local Policy and Goals. This is in accordance with the general tone of the
education and poverty alleviation policy of the Government. The Project's design has been a
collaborative effort between the Bank and MVTE.
6.    Improvement in Use of Resources. Private sector schools would not be supplanted or crowded
out. Instead their efficiency would be enhanced by improved curricula, regulation, examination
structures, etc. Use of physical resources in public VTE schools would be made more efficient.
7.    Model Schools. The model schools would serve as role models for areas in which the private
sector has clearly failed to invest in, for lack of funds or the long and uncertain gestation period before
The private VTE schools, with the exception of the NGOs have not ventured into training that requires high
capital investments.



Annex 4
Page 2 of7
returns accrue. Model schools would introduce new areas and methods of instruction. Preliminary
research conducted by local consultants has highlighted that there will be a large wage premium to
Vocational and Technical Education in certain trades, such as printing, which Model Schools will
concentrate on.
8.    Minimal Intervention. Quality enhancement would be generated by minimal intervention at the
appropriate level: curricula, regulation, accreditation systems, examination systems, etc.
Estimating the Net Benefits of the Intervention
9.    The costs include fixed and recurrent costs accrued by the Government and the World Bank, and
the opportunity cost (forfeited wages while at school) accrued by VTE graduates. The benefits are
captured by the increase in the benefits to graduates. This increase is a function of two aspects of the
project: improved quality of education and an increase in the quantity of VTE graduates.
Uncertainty. Several factors have been considered with respect to uncertainty:
* labor market response to labor quality improvement
* alignment of sectoral supply and demand for skilled labor
* labor quality improvement
* rate of increase in graduation rates
* level of increase in examination pass rates
* time by which targeted graduation rates are achieved
Risk. Major risk factors are:
* Failure to improve institutional capacity
* Inability to improve management and teaching quality
* Ineffective attempts to increase access for the poor
* Macroeconomic instability
* Return of hostilities, internal or external
10.   Monitoring of performance indicators would mitigate the risk associated with the first three
factors. Stringent implementation based on the monitoring of performance indicators would reduce the
risk engendered by these three factors. Strong support by the Government and the constituents of the
VTE system would also contribute to the reduction of these risks. The last two factors should not be a
significant risk, given recent trends and the consensus of positive projections on the future of the political
and economic situation in Lebanon.
11.   Monitoring and Performance Indicators. The indicators are shown in Annex 1. In particular,
the variables whose future values are keen to the financial analysis of the project would be tracked.
These include: wage rates, graduation rates and the recurrent costs borne by the Lebanese government.
These would be used for periodic reviews of the performance of project implementation and the financial
ramifications thereof.
12.   Institutional Capacity. The project improves the capacity of regulatory, management and
implementation institutions.
13.   Adequacy of Policy Environment. The recent thrust by the Government, relevant ministries and
NGOs provide a conducive environment for successful project implementation. The Government has
expanded the VTE system, instituted policies to enhance VTE performance and created avenues for
obtaining information and data on factors affecting VTE schools and their graduates.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
14.   Macroeconomic and Political Stability. Macroeconomic and political stability are anticipated to
hold during the project period. Real wage increments are assumed to be growing at a similar rate with
the real economic growth. An expanding small scale private sector growth will be an important
constituent of employment growth for VTE graduates.
15.   Environmental Impact. With its low physical construction component, the project is expected
to have negligible environmental impacts.
16.   Fiscal Inpact. The project imposes a minimal fiscal burden on the government. For the most
part, the project engenders returns by improving the utilisation of current infrastructure and resources.
Economic Analysis
17.   A preliminary economic analysis was based on a cost-benefit study. Although additional
benefits could be shown in a cost effectiveness analysis, no attempt has been made at quantifying them in
the absence of additional information needed.
18.   During appraisal the mission decided on the need to incorporate sectoral level supply and
demand issues (labor market, goods market, and quality of factors). Following discussions with MVTE,
private sector representatives and other stakeholders, the mission was apprised of the need to incorporate
the sectoral shifts expected in the future in the Lebanese economy. These shifts are of paramount
importance in the economic analysis because the returns to vocational education and the investment
needs of providing vocational education differ dramatically across sectors. As a corollary, part of the
project can be seen as allowing the Lebanese labor market to plan for and achieve projected sector-by-
sector growth scenario of skilled labor. However, due to the paucity of data on wages labor demand and
on the path of wages at the sector level, the mission's economic analysis was unable to fully capture the
sectoral differences. In the analysis provided in this annex, the mission did not undertake an inter-
sectoral analysis due to the above mentioned lack of data.
Cost Benefit Analysis
19.   The benefits are the estimated streams of income earned by VTE graduates, and non-VTE
graduates (unskilled workers) over a 30 year period. The costs are the investment and recurrent costs
associated with the project including opportunity costs. The net benefit is the difference between
benefits and costs. The economic internal rate of return (ERR), and net present value (NPV) were
estimated based on the net benefit and a discount rate of 12%. Simulations indicated that ERR
dependent highly on two broad parameters: income disparity between VTE and non-VTE graduates, and
graduation rate.
Income Disparity Between VTE and Non-VTE Graduates
20.   Income disparity is estimated as the difference in income by the two groups over the assumed 30
year period. This disparity was in turn highly dependent on the starting salaries of the two groups, and
their projected growth over the 30 year horizon. For VTE graduates, three subgroups were included.
The first includes graduates of the new growth schools (Model Schools), who start at a slightly higher
wage level. The second group includes graduates from existing schools in addition to the new schools
funded by the bank. The third group includes graduates from the VTE schools funded by other non-bank
sources. Starting wages were based on two labor survey studies conducted by CRI in Lebanon. The



Anmex 4
Page 4 of 7
average hourly rate for a skilled worker (basic salary, excluding social allowances) was found to be
US$3.08, and the range between US$2.50 and US$3.61. The corresponding average hourly rate for an
unskilled worker was found to be US$1.79, and in the range between US$1.53 and US$2.22. Future
wages would be monitored closely during project implementation. Currently, there is a wage bargaining
process taking place in Lebanon between the Government, the business communities, and the General
Confederation of Trade Unions on an annual basis. This process is aimed to reach an agreement on wage
adjustments. Unfortunately, the process does not have clear modalities and regulations governing the
linkage between the rate of inflation and the rate of wage adjustment, the structure of wage brackets, and
the minimum and maximum amount of wage increase. The current labor law is generally considered
obsolete, and there is a plan pending that would decree new legislation.
Grduation rate
21.   The graduation rate (expressed as a % of first year enrollment) is currently very low,
approximately 32%, due to high dropout rates and high final exam failure rates. Simulations showed that
IRR was also highly dependent on the graduation rate.
Economic Rate of Return
22.   The economic internal rate of return (ERR) was estimated by using Monte Carlo simulations.
The ERR for the realistic scenario is 15.8%, which corresponds to a net present value (NPV) of $76.9
million. Figure 1, shows the confidence level for the IRR for the most likely scenario-- realistic wage
increase and realistic achievement of the graduation rate goal. The IRR lies in the band of 13.5% to
17.9% at the 95% confidence level.



Annex 4
Page s of 7
Figure 1
Economic Rate of Return
.013                    .
.000
12.00 %       13.54%                15.81h           17.89%    1 9.00%
II  *  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sensitivity Analysis
23.    Sensitivity analysis of ERR shows that it is highly correlated to the wages of VTE graduates
(bank sources) and VTE graduates (Model Schools), Figure 2. The NPV lies in the band of US$29 to
US$130 million.
Figure 2
Sensitivity Analysis: Economic Rate of Return
Measured by Rank Correlation
Hourly rate VTE graduates Bank Sources  .56
Hourly rate VTE graduates Model Schools  .64
Hourly rate VTE graduates      .46
Hourly rate non-VTE graduates  .1
-1t      -0.8       0         0.5



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
The distribution for NPV, under the realistic wage and graduation rate scenario, is shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3
Net Present Value
.048
,036    ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . .   ..   ..   .   .   ..  -..-..--..--..--.......-    --  
024    - --------.  . .   .   .............   s  .
227  274     3.1       S                          ~41                       4l    ! m
.012   -- - -. - - - - -                                               -  --  --  --  -- -- -  --
0               S29m                     Si7m             St10m              15 Ssm
T'he distributions used in the wage assumptions are shown in Figures 4 to 7.
Figure 4                                                       Figure 5
{~ ~ ~~~a  rldy    VrE qzd9b                                            Hmi r adybVrEaE grdu M bdiSdchol
Figure 6                                                       Figure 7
1i3       1.D       1.87      214       S                      284      a13        401       48        S



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Assumption
Assumption 1: Wage Increases of VTE Graduates
24.    These increases depend upon the output of the project (for example, quality and relevance of
training, image of VTE, etc.) and exogenous features like the state of the economy and the political
situation. A pictorial representation of projected wages and associated cumulative benefits are shown in
Figures 8 and 9.
Figure 8
700MM Model Schools
6uv 6          IEINew Schools OtherSources
E   500l             Existing VTE Schools plus Now Bank Funded_
200
O         2001     2004     2007     2010     2013     2016     2019     2022     2025
z
Year
Figure 9
Projected Wage Levels
12
11
1 0
'9  9
8
7
6
4
3
1998    2001    2004    2007    2010    2013    2016    2019    2022    2025   Year
- - - Non-VTE graduates             -      Bank Sources VTE graduates
_Non  Bank Schools VTE graduates --- Model School Graduates
Assumption 2: Graduation Rate Increase
25.    The project places a strong emphasis on increasing graduation rates. The aim is to increase the
graduation rate from the current level of 32% (expressed as a percentage of initial enrollment) to 57% by
year 2007, and maintain it at this level thereafter.



Annex 5
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million, 1998/99 base year)
Implementation Period               Operational Period
98/99   99/00   00/01    01/02   02/03   03/04   04/05    05/06
Poect Costs
Investment Costs          10.19    16.89   23.11    13.78    4.90        -.
Recurrent Costs            0.0      DA4      1.1     1.51    Le6      Le6      1 60      .6
Total                   10.20    17.29   24.22    15.29    6.50    1.60     1.60     1.60
Financing Sources (%/ of total
prject coa)
IBRD (amount)             10.17    15.45   20.58    12.21    4.59
IBRD (%)                  99.7%   89.4%    85.0%   79.8%   70.6%         -       -         -
Government (amount)        0.03     1.84    3.64    3.08    1.91    1.60      1.60      1.60
Government (%)             0.3%    10.6%    15.0%   20.2%   29.4%    100%    100%      100%
Total (%)               100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%        100%



Annex 6
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    PIU Capacity to Manage Procurement. The five staff comprising the Technical Support Unit (TSU)
created under the ERRP1 would become a fully fledged Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and will take full
responsibility for the coordination of all activities under the new Project. This unit would be strengthened
with the addition of a Finance Officer, and several other support staff as soon as the loan becomes effective.
CDR would procure the civil works and related supervision and goods. CDR has considerable experience in
the procurement of works and goods gained through other Bank-financed projects and is expected to manage
and implement its share of activities without difficulty. The MVTE would procure printing services for
textbooks to be developed under the project, procure consultants' services for the various technical assistance
activities and make arrangements for training. MVTE has experience in printing of textbooks as well as in
technical assistance and training through its existing French and German bilateral assistance programs that
have been going on for several years. A "Responsibility Matrix" agreed upon by MVTE and CDR shows the
respective responsibility for the various activities in the procurement of works and related supervision
services, and goods.
2.    MVTE will benefit from the full-time professional support of the PIU. Therefore, management and
implementation of procurement activities should not pose any difficulty. The PIU staff will receive additional
training in planning and scheduling of project activities, in budgeting and accounting systems and procedures,
in procurement, and office management. The Procurement Officer has already attended a procurement
seminar given by the Bank in May 1997. Pl`U staff are also scheduled to receive procurement training at the
ILO Center in Turin. The PIU has been furnished with Bank Guidelines of procurement for works, goods, and
consulting services and a complete set of Bank standard bidding documents (SBD) (small works, goods, and
consultant contract forms) as well as the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH).
The PIU (TSU) staff have participated in the project appraisal, in scheduling and costing of project activities,
in the preparation of the procurement plan and other project documents, and in the negotiations. Further
training in procurement and disbursement is being planned prior to effectiveness to ensure that the staff is
familiar with all project documents, the Agreement and the project working papers. Procurement of civil
works will be assisted by architectural and engineering firms that would be contracted to design and assist in
the bidding and contracting process and supervise the works. Equipment and training specialists would also
be contracted as needed to provide assistance in the preparation of equipment lists and specifications. This
technical support is budgeted under the project.
A. Procurement Methods(TablesAlandA2)
3.    Project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements and schedule for the
components to be financed by the Bank are summarized in Table Al and Table A2.
4.    All Bank-financed civil works, and goods would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January
and August 1996. Consultant services would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997.
The TSU comprise five staff: Director, Procurement Officer, Architect, Technical Educator, and an Executive
Secretary. They were all selected on a competitive basis and are experienced in their respective fields.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
5.    Civil Works. Around 16 contracts ranging from US$0.3 million to US$1.9 million and totaling about
US$18.03 million would be awarded according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. These
contracts are geographically disbursed across the country and are not likely to interest foreign bidders.
Contractors for all civil works contracts would be prequalified and standard documents acceptable to the Bank
would be used.
6.    Goods. Around 87 contracts for goods (equipment, furniture, computers, software, library books and
textbooks) totaling about US$22.7 million would be procured as follows: Contracts estimated at US500,000 or
more would be awarded according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures based on Bank
Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for the procurement of goods. Contracts below US$500,000 would be
awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures also based on Bank SBDs for
the procurement of goods not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$2 million. Smaller contracts estimated
between US$100,000 and US$250,000 would be awarded according to International Shopping (IS) procedures
not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.7 million. Contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 would be
procured according to National Shopping (NS) procedures not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$1.5
million. Direct Contracting (DC) would be allowed for the procurement of intellectual property items such as
computer software or library books estimated at about US$0.7 million.
7.    Consultants and Training Services. Studies and training financed under the project will be contracted
in accordance with the World Bank Consultant Guidelines of January 1997, revised September 1997.
Services to be contracted include short-term consultants and long-term TA, training services, architectural
services and construction supervision as well as technical and financial auditing. Consultants and training
services in the amount of US$22.45 million and architectural and engineering service contracts in the amount
of US$2.01 million will be procured using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, with the
exception of small contracts where the selection would be based on the consultant's qualification, or where
the nature and locality of the assignment would require single-source selection. During negotiations tentative
agreement was reached to group, whenever feasible, technical assistance and training services into three to
four major packages combining local and international expertise. The winning firms would be expected to
nominate local consultants of their choice. These packaging would be based on technical considerations.
Architectural and engineering services for design and supervision (US$2.01 million) would be divided into
four packages, because of the geographical distribution of the works, and would be procured locally in
accordance with World Bank Consultant Guidelines dated January 1997 revised September 1997.
8.    Use of Standard Documents. All procurement under ICB would use World Bank Standard
Documents (SBDs). For NCB simpler documents would be developed on the basis of the SBDs. All
consulting services would use Standard Forms for time-based or lump-sum contracts as appropriate for the
type of assignment.
B. prior Review Yhresholds (Table B)
9.    All civil works contracts exceeding US$1,300,000 and goods contracts exceeding US$500,000 would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Consultancy contracts of US$100,000 with firms and of US$50,000
with individuals would be subject to prior review by the Bank. These thresholds would account for about
78% of Bank-financed procurement.
Disbursemen
C. Allocation Qf Loan Promd (Table C)
10.   The Bank loan would be disbursed against the expenditure categories as shown in Table C.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
D. Documentationfor Withdrawals. Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than
US$1,300,000 for works, US$500,000 for goods, US$100,000 with consulting firms, US$50,000 with
individual consultants, and US$100,000 for training activities would be presented with full documentation (in
English) for disbursement.
E. Use QfStatements QfExediue 6SOs. Disbursements for contracts not governed by the above
paragraph would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement for training
activities not contracted and valued at less than US$100,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs. During
negotiations assurances would be sought that supporting documentation would be maintained (in English) by
the PIU/CDR and be made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
F. SpecialAccounts (SAs). To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would
establish two Special Accounts (SAs) in the Central Bank, to be operated by the MVTE and CDR under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocation of
US$2.0 million to the SA for civil works, related supervision services, and equipment to be operated by CDR
and US$1.8 million to the SA for all other categories to be operated by MVTE. Initially, the allocations
would be limited to US$1.0 million and US$0.9 million for each SA respectively. The full allocations could
be claimed when disbursements reach US$5 million for civil works, supervision services and equipment, and
US$3 million for the remaining categories. The MVTE and CDR would submit replenishment applications
for their respective SAs on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications would be supported by a bank statement of the SA
and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against the Bank's records. The minimum amount for
applications for direct payment and for special commitment would be 20 percent of the authorized allocation
to the SA. Replenishment of the SA would follow Bank procedures. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report (in English) would be submitted to the Bank
for review within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. These above provisions were agreed upon
during negotiations.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Table A 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method
ICB        NCB        Other      N.B.F
Civil works                               18.03                              18.03
(14.43)                           (14.43)
2. aGo
Equipment                     18.04                   0.45'                  18.49
(16.11)                 (0.40)                (16.51)
Furniture                                  0.91       0.912                  1.82
(0.82)     (0.82)                 (1.64)
Computers                                             0.192                  0.19
(0.17)                (0.17)
Software                                              0.163                  0.16
(0.15)                (0.15)
Books                                                 0.543                  0.54
(0.48)                (0.48)
Textbooks                                  1.05       0.454                  1.50
(1.05)     (0.45)                 (1.50)
3. Technical Assistance and Services
Specialist Services                                   22.44                  22.44
(22.44)               (22.44)
ArchlEngin. Services                                  2.01                   2.01
(2.01)                (2.01)
Project Management                                    0.20                   0.20
(0.18)                (0.18)
4. Trining
3.50                  3.50
(3.50)                (3.50)
Total                              18.04       19.99       30.85                  68.87
(16.11)    (16.29)     (30.60)                (63.00)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
I   Intemational Shopping
2   National Shopping
3   Direct Contracting (intellectual property)
4   National Shopping



Table A 2: Procurement Plan
.....               b   ac.  .....4
Works                             CW                       16                     18.03    NCB                         Prior   Yes for
>US$ l.30   NCB
Phase 1                                                4                       4.03                                                            Feb. 99         Apr. 99           Jun. 99             Jul. 00
Phase II                                               8                       9.00                                                            Sep. 99         Nov. 99           Jan. 00             Jul. 01
Phase III                                              4                       5.00                                                            Sep. 00         Nov. 00           Jan. 01             Jul. 02
Goods                                                                                                                  Prior         No
>US$0.50
.......................................   .................   .............................   ..................................................  ...................  ..................  ......
Equipment                     G                       58                     18.49   ICB/IS
Phase I                                            4                      3.42                                                            Dec. 98    Feb. 99                Mar. 99             Jul. 99
Phase 11                                         17                       6.78                                                            Dec. 99    Feb. 00                Mar. 00             Jul. 00
Phase III                                        29                       5.94                                                            Dec. 00          Feb. 01          Mar. 01             Jul. 01
Phase IV                                         12                       2.35                                                            Dec. 01          Feb. 02          Mar. 02             Jul. 02
.................................... ................................................................. .................................................................
Furniture                      G                      16                       1.82  NCB/NS
Phase I                                            4                                                                                      Dec. 98    Feb. 99                Mar. 99            Aug. 99
Phase 11                                           4                                                                                      Dec. 99    Feb. 00                Mar. 00            Aug. 00
Phase III                                          4                                                                                      Dec. 00          Feb. 01          Mar. 01            Aug. 01
Phase IV                                           4                                                                                      Dec. 01    Feb. 02                Mar. 02            Aug. 02
..................... .................  .......6.........    .............................   ............................ ........   ...........ff..........    ........................... ....................... .............................     ............     .............
Computers                      G                        3                      0.19          IS
Package I                                                                                                                                 May 98    Jun. 98                  Jul. 98            Sep. 98
Package II                                                                                                                                May 00    Jun. 00                  Jul. 00            Sep. 00
Package III                                                                                                                               May 02           Jun. 02           Jul. 02            Sep. 02
S      ar                     G                                                .6              C        ........................... o                          ......                                      .........
Package I                                                                                                                                 May 98    Jun. 98                  Jul. 98            Sep. 98
Package ll                                                                                                                                May 00    Jun. 00                  Jul. 00            Sep. 00
Package III                                                                                                                               May 02    Jun. 02                  Jul. 02            Sep. 02
Library books               G                         2 .                    0.54         DC
Package l                                                                                                                                 Apr. 99          Jun. 99           Jul. 99            Sep. 99
Package II                                                                                                                                Apr. 00          Jun. 00           Jul. 00            Sep. 00
............................. ......   ........G.........  .............................   ......................................   ......................   .....I........I........... . ............   ............    .........................,.............
Textbooks (print)              G                        5                      1.50  NCB/NS
Package I                                                                                                                                 Jun. 98           Jul.98           Sep. 98            Nov. 98
Package II                                                                                                                                Apr. 99    May 99                  Jun. 99            Sep. 99
........................... ................I.................  .............................  ...................................... ......................I......................... ..I.................... .............................
CW  for civil works; G  for goods; CF for consultant firms; CI for individuals; TR  for training.
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t   The number of packages are indicated approximately. Further refinements are being made by the PIU.
3   ICB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for minor civil works), QCBS, QBS, FB, LCS; SS (for sole-sourcing of firmns or individuals), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of
administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).                                                                                                                                                                     00o  O
4     For all competitive bidding procedures for civil works.



5umuijI pue sotitAijo VLjo sdnoi8 aeueuw ol simoeiu  2dA4-vijqwn1
-'munsuoo
o0 ossn<=                                                              OA!: 
_ _OUd                  seua           0os                             U! popnpoul               )3                             8!u!i.lI
so $ssn<=
OUd                     Saab    89 E                                   81                         13                    sinpA!pu1
...........................  .. .......................   ..............  ......................   .............    ........................ .   ... .........  ................................  .......................... ...    '1''............  ......................
98,0                                                                           soipnliS
CO daS               86 130              86 d*S    86 5nY                                                                               06-L1                          9                                                    $VI
EO unf               86 sanV             86 fInf            86 *unr                                                                    0I                              t  BI'u3a/IP
o0 ossn<f-    StIY0                                                    Z I                        ia                           sai
lOUd                                    S1-bZ                          L            I                                   s3lUinsuoJ
* .................... .........................................................................................................................................................................   ........................    .....................
10 doS                Zo unf   Zl hN    Zo idy                                                                                                                                                                    A *SJPUd
TO  doS               10Sunf    IoAUa                       I jdV                                                                                                                                                Al 08U pUJ
00 -do                00 unlf    00 '(vW                    00 jdy                                                                                                                                                IIl 09'POd
00      ~             r0    ~*                                                                    ~~                                                                ~~l~                  O           ~            dJ



Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Country Procurement Assessment Report (to obtain for the file)
2. General Procurement Notice in Development Business (January 1998)
3.    Expenditure Categry &      Threshold jar conitract   Prior Review     Total per
Procurement Method                                                  calmly
(a) Works
NCB                          >250,000             >1,300,000    18,030,000
subtotal (a)                                          18,030,000
(b) Goods                                                 >500,000
Equipment
ICB                  >500,000                            18,040,000
IS                   <500,000                              450,000
Fumiture
NCB                  >100,000                              910,000
NS                    <100,000                             910,000
Computers
IS                   >100,000                              190,000
Comp. Software
DC                      all                                 160,000
Library books
DC                      all                                540,000
Textbooks (printing)
NCB                  >250,000                             1,050,000
NS                   <250,000                              450,000
subtotal (b)                                          22,700,000
(c) Consultant Services
Finns                                              >100,000     20,770,000
Individuals                                        = >50,000     3,680,000
subtotal (c)                                         24,450.000
(d) Training                                             =>100,000      3,500,000
Contracts below the prior review threshold would be disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$              Financing Percentage
1. Works                                  13,110,000     80%
2. Goods                                  17,220,000     100% foreign,
100% local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of other items procured
locally
3. Printing of textbooks                   1,360,000     100% local expenditures (ex-factory
cost)
4. Consultants' services (for                640,000     100%
supervision of works only)
5. Consultants' services under other      25,980,000     100%
parts of the Project and training
6. Project Management'                       180,000     90%
Unallocated                            4,510,000
Total      63,000,000
"Project management" means expenditures under the Project incurred l(i) by the PIU in relation to maintenance
of vehicles and equipment, fuel, utility charges, office supplies, communication and transport costs, and
insurance costs; and (ii) by the Technical Committees in relation to communication and transportation costs and
the costs of reproducing documents.



Annex 7
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                 Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
296,000               251,300 (to date)
B. Project Schedule                        Plannd                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  15                   18
First Bank mission (identification)       02/1996                07/08/1996
Appraisal mission (start)                 08/1997                11/03/1997
Negotiations                               10/1997               01114/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness             03/1998                07/01/1998
Prepared by: The Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education (MVTE) in cooperation with the
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR).
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant TF023035 (JPY 94,000,000 - US$823,373 equivalent)
Funds under the Grant are also used for the Basic Education and CERD. About US$346,000 of the
Grant has been used to prepare this project.
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:              Stage:
Vasilios C. Demetriou      Task Manager                                     I/P/PA/AIN
Hadi Abushakra             Legal Counsel                                    N
Radwan Al-Jabri            Legal Counsel                                    N2
Roland Bachmann            Technical Educator/Curriculum Specialist (consultant) I/P/A
Stephen Bradley            Economist (consultant)                           I/P
Eid Dib                    Architect (consultant)                           PA/A
Randa El-Rashidi           Human Resources Specialist (consultant)          I/P/PA/A/N
George X. Gikas            MngtlInfo. Technol./Priv. Sector Spec. (consultant)    P/PA/A
Vijay Gupta                Economist (consultant)                           A
Mira Hong                  Sr. Staff Assistant, Report Production           PAD
Sergio Jellinek            Logical Framework (consultant)                   PA
Hannah Koilpillai          Disbursement Officer                             N2
Jean-Paul Peresson         Economist (consultant)                           PA/A
David N. Wilson            Technical Educator (consultant)                  PA
George Za'rour             Senior Educator (consultant)                     I/P
Peer Reviewers: Alan Abrahart (ECSHD); Nat Colletta (AFTI1); Indermit Gill (LCC5F); and
Cecilia Valdivieso (PRMGE)
Key:
I=identification; P=preparation; PA=preappraisal; A=appraisal; N=negotiations.
l The original identification mission of February 1996 was cut short due to renewed disturbances. The July 1996
mission was a combined identification/preparation mission.
2 Assisted from Headquarters.



Annex 8
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Implementation Manual (MVTE)
2. Project Cost Tables - Summary and Detail (World Bank Team)
3. Project implementation schedules by component (World Bank Team and PIU)
4. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Packages (World Bank Team and PIU)
5. High Council for Vocational & Technical Education - members list and designation (MVTE)
6. Technical Committees - composition and functions (MVTE)
7. Bank supervision plan (World Bank Team)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Estimating the Economic Rate of Return - working papers (Vijay Gupta & George X. Gikas)
2. Financial Management - Review of Government Accounting and Auditing Arrangements (Hani
Sibai, Beirut)
3. Identification (April 1996) and preparation mission (July 1996) reports (Steve Bradley, Dept of
Economics, Lancaster University, UK)
4. Identification (April 1996 & May 1996) mission report (Roland Bachmann, Director of Ecole
Technicque de Sainte-Croix, Switzerland)
C. Other
1. Diagram of the New Framework of Education (CERD)
2. Organogram of the MVTE Structure (MVTE)
3. Organogram of the PIU Structure (PIU)
4. Lebanese Welfare Association for the Handicapped (SARAFAND)
5. Proposal for Printing and Graphic Arts (Lebanese Graphic Arts Syndicate)
6. Ministry of Finance 1997 Budget
7. Vocational and Technical Education Plan (EDUTEC)
8. Education Enrollment Evolution (EDUTEC)
9. List of Components under the Islamic Development Bank assistance (CDR)
10. Arab Donor Assistance to the VTE Sector in Lebanon
11. Vocational Schools Project - Study (Samir Khairallah & Partners, November 1995)
12. Vocational Schools Project - Executive Summary (Samir Khairallah & Partners, October 1995)
13. The Lebanese Economy in the First Half of 1996 (Chamber of Commerce and Industry)
14. Decree Number 8349, establishing the Directorate of Vocational and Technical Education
15. Statistical Information & Results of Official Exams, 1995-1996 (MVTE)
16. Educational Worksheets for each existing VTE school (MVTE)
17. Geographic Location of Existing and Proposed VTE Schools (CDR/MVTE)
18. Vocational and Technical Education in Lebanon and Labor Market Conditions (Consultation &
Research Institute, October 1997)
19. Overview on Technical and Vocational Education in Lebanon (Directorate General of Technical and
Vocational Education, 1994)
20. The Restructuring of the Lebanese Educational System (Ministry of National Education Youth and
Sports, October, 1995)
21. Vocational and Technical Private Schools in Lebanon (EDUTECH,, S.A.R.L, October, 1997)
22. Physical Survey of Public Schools (M. Rachad Atoui, Architect, October, 1997)



Annex 9
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Statement of Loans and Credits
as of January 31, 1998
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Loan    Fiscal                                                            Original Amount in US$ Millions
No.      Year          Borrower                    Purpose              IBRD   Cancellations Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 4
Active Loans
35620-1    1993   Govemnnent of Lebanon    Emergency Recovery             225.00      0.00          75.77
37690       1994   Govermment of Lebanon    Lebanon Irrigation             57.23      0.00          49.75
37700      1994   Govermment of Lebanon    Ta For Revenue Enhancement      19.94      0.00          17.80
38290       1995   Government of Lebanon    Health Project                 35.70      0.00          34.28
38990       1995   Government of Lebanon    Solid Waste/Environment        55.00      0.00          54.59
39300       1996   Government of Lebanon   Admininistrative Rehabilitation    20.00   0.00          17.84
40650       1997   Government of Lebanon   National Roads                  42.00      0.00          41.25
40920       1997   Government of Lebanon    Agriculture Infrastructure      31.00     0.00          29.50
Development
41120       1997   Government of Lebanon    Power Sector Restructuring     65.00      0.00          56.88
41360       1997   Govermment of Lebanon    Coastal Pollution Control      53.10      0.00          47.83
Total                                                                     603.97      0.00         425.49
Active Loans     Closed Loans       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)         173.21           93.66           266.87
of which has been repaid              4.11           92.11            96.22
Total now held by IBRD and IDA         599.86            1.56           601.42
Amount sold                              0.00            3.45            3.45
Of which repaid                        0.00             3.45            3.45
Total Undisbursed                      425.49            0.00           425.49
Note: The Emergency Recovery includes a supplemental loan of US$50 million.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
as of December 31, 1997
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval       Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993         Uniceramic              1.87     0.00     0.00    0.93    1.87      0.00    0.00    0.93
1993/94/96    Fransabank            16.08     0.00     0.00   14.29   12.69      0.00    0.00    8.41
1993/96       Byblos Bank           14.00     0.00     0.00    15.50    4.60     0.00    0.00    1.40
1993/96      BBAC                    9.00     0.00     0.00    7.50    8.17      0.00    0.00    6.33
1993/96/98    Banque Audi           10.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    9.89      0.00    0.00    0.00
1994         Banque Libanaise        4.01     0.00     0.00    1.42    4.01      0.00    0.00    1.42
1994/96       Libano-Francaise      14.80     0.00     0.00   17.40    5.60      0.00    0.00    3.60
1994/96       SGLEB                 12.30     0.00     0.00   13.90    5.59      0.00    0.00    3.61
1995          CimenterieNatl        20.00     0.00     0.00   30.00   20.00      0.00    0.00   30.00
1995         Lebanese Leasing        6.76     0.75     0.00    6.92    6.76      0.75    0.00    6.92
1997          ADC                    5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997          Bank of Beirut        12.50     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997          Banque Beyrouth       10.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997          Banque Saradar        10.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997          FIML Services         20.00     0.00    10.00   45.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997          Transorient Bank      12.50     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   178.82     0.75    10.00  152.86   79.18      0.75    0.00   62.62
Approvals Pending Commitment
L&m     Eauixy   Q0aa   Par
1997         BANKBEIRUT CL4          0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50
1997          BEYROUTH CL4           0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50
1997         TRANSORIENT CL4         0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00     0.00     0.00   22.50



Annex 10
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL AND TECENCAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Country at a Glance
AL East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         & North  middle-
Lebnon    Africa  Income        Develoment daaond
Populaton mid-1998 (millIons)                         4.1      279     1,125
GNP per capita 199Io (USS)                          2,9B0    Z090      1,750                 Life expancy
GNP.11996 (billions USS)                             1Z1       582     1,967
Average annual growth, 199041.
Population (%)                                        1.9       2.8      1.4                 4 mi
Labor force (%)                                       2.9       3.3      1.8     GNP                            oGmss
Most recent estimate (latest year evalable strce 1989)                           capo,a               /       enroiment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populaton)
Urban population (% oftotal populatfon)                87       57        55
Ure expectancy atbirth (years)                         6        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 me biKths)                 32       54        41
Child mainutrition (% of children under 5)             ..        ..       ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (X of populaton)                  ..       85
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                     8       39
Gross pnmary enrogment f% ofschool-age population)    112       97       104              .Lebanon
Male                                                114      104       105    !Lower-middl4ncome gmUp
Female                                              110       91       101i
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     1995      1S996
Economic ran
GDP (billions US$)                             *-     3.8      11.1     13.0
Gross domestc investment/GDP                  ..       ..    33.0       30.1
Exports of goods and serbces/GDP               ..      ..    11.8       10.9               Openness of eronomy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      ..   -20.8    -17.5
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      ..       4.8      4.4                       T
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..   -2.2    -25.7
Interest paymentslGDP                          .      0.8       0.7      1.       Savings                    Investment
Total deb/GDP                                  ..    24.1      23.9     30.9
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..    11.1        3.5
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..        ..
l         ~~~Indebtdness
197S4S  l1s9864S    199S      1991S  1997-0S 
(average annual growth)
GDP                                22Z8     17.4      8.5       4.0      6.7         -     Lebanon
GNP per capita                       ..      7.2      4.9       0.8      4.8               Lowedbncom. group
Exports of goods and services        ..    13.3      47.4      10.0     14.2    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
11975    1935     199       1996    j Growth asf outt   I tt (%)
(% of GDP)w
Agriculture                                   ,2       ..    12.4       12.4      so
Industry                                      ..       ..    26.5       26.5  ! 0
Manufacturing                                ..       ..    17.3       17.3    so
Services                                       ..      ..    81.1       61.1    -20\
Private consumpton                            ..       ..   106.5    102.0                           na
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..    14.1       15.4
Imports of goods and semices                  ..       ..    85.4       58.4                    GOI   _GOP
197545  1986-96      1995     1996      Growth rats of expots and Import(%
(average annual gmswth) 
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       7.0      0.4   s5o0
Industry                                      ..       ..       1.3      0.4    40
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      1.2       0.4     '. 30
Services                                       ..      ..       3.9      0.4   ! 20               /%A
Private consumption                           ..      8.8       5.0      4.7     10 '° 
General govemment consumption                 ..      6.6       8.2     19.2      a
Gross domestic investment                     ..    27.1       11.0     -0.5   |         III *       3 a4   Is a 
Imports of goods and services                 ..    14.8       11.8      7.2
Gross natonal product                          ..     9.3       6.9      2.4                  EXP0J   _tmperU
Note: 1996 data are preliminaqy estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country On boid) compared with its incormgroup average. If data are ming, the diamond wilt
be incomplete.



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pdcos1975                                         1985      1995      1996        inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                               120
Consumer pries                                      ..       ..      10.6        8.9     1   t
90 
lmpilitGDPdeflator                              19.2     -19.5      10.6        8.9    [ s0 -
40
Govewment fnance                                                                          20
(% of GDP)                                                                                 0
Current revenue                                    ..        ..      16.8       17.3              91    92    93    94    95    96
Currentbudgetbalance                               ..        ..      -8.9      -12.1                   - GDPdef,   _ CpI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..        ..    -18.4       -20.6
TRADE
1975      1985      1995       1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Totalexports(fob)                                   ..       ..       816       783       3000
Uvestock, animal, vegetable products             ..         ..       74         76    | 7.000
Fats and oils                                     .         ..        9          9      6'000-
Manufactures                                                        667        633    jo000
Total Imports (ci?)..                                         .     7,394      7,691     4000
Food                                              .         ..    1,449      1,610     3.0 tw:i                          U
Fuel and energy                                                     636       645       21   11 
Capital goods                                     ...              1,013     1,129          ___________________
Exportpnceindex(199I=100)                           ..       ..       109       107             90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Importpriceindex (1994=100)                         ..       ..       109       106                   nE xports      inImports
Terms of trade (1987=190)                           ..       ..       100       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                                  1975       1985      1995      1996       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                       ..       ..    1,307       1,413       s
Imports of goods and services                       ..       ..    7,267      7,596         ___                   _
Resouce balance                                     ..       ..   -5,960    -6,183           so 90
Net Income                                          ..       ..       433       290      -O
Netcurrenttransfers                                ..        ..    2,391      2,550        s 
Current account balance,                                                                  20 -
before official capital transfers                ..          .    -3,136    -3,343      -25 9
Finandng items (net)                               ..        ..    3,727      4,771       30      
Changes in net reserves                             .         .      -591    -1,428      -35
Memo:
Reserves induding golcl (mill. US$)                ..    4,089      8,076     9,573
Conversion rate (locaL4JS$)                         ..     16.4   1,621.4   1,570.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985      1995      1996    r 
(millions US$)                                                                          | CompostIon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding tnd disbursed              46        870     2,660     4,012
IBRD                                            16        36        113       140
IDA                                              0         0          0         0                      A: 140
D 196
Total debt service                                11        126       498       163                                   E.315
IBRD                                             3         7         11        13
IDA                                              0         0          0         0         G:15
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..        45        45
Official creditors                              -3         6        120       223
Private creditors                                0        -30       388       831
Foreign direct investrent                        ..        ,.    2,933      2,552                                      1708
Portfolio equity                                 ..        ..         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0          0       111       188      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disburserents                                    5          4        51        31      B - IDA    D - Other muKilateral   F - Private
Prindpal repayments                              2         4          4         4      C - IMF                         G - Short-temm
Net flows                                        4          0        47        27                                                   !
Interest payments                                1          3         7         9
Nettransfers                                     3         -2        40        19
Development Economics                                                                                                           119/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29338
35°30                                                  36'00                                                  This  W c    pmdoed b
tl~e MaDes)n (J,it of The
World fBook i,. 1on,d
LEBANON                                                                                                               cot-, d'ninons andl
J ' *        ~~az obrr ink nat  Awn
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL                                                                           \... -°
., g= sk*n of msy Mrniy
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                            i            *oY n"osegmor
olbo       -'AKKAR                                      ce   of such
(,)PROJECT WCATIONS                                                                               >AKKAR>OAkker                                       34°30'
o    SELEaTED CMTES 
C*   GOVERNORATE (MOHAfAZAT) CAPtTALS                    ,TipoliO.         Dr`-0%
N~~~jhgertoI ~~~~~~~~Henrnelo
(1   NATIONALCAPITAL                                                               TRIPOLI          *      ELHcRM L (°t)
CAZA BOUNDARIES                                           t,kO R T hNL E B A  N O N
CheLko                 ZGHARTA\. - 
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                0 EL KOURA                                        |o
-       I- tNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   (       f       J>-          a       .         t,
11Z5  CHAR1 I\                           S A     -l     r ~
WATERCOURSES                    Breen             o -                          Echr, 
0     5    T0   15   20   25 KILOMETERS              O                             . -J
BAALBECK                \o
0        5          0       iSMItLES                        -Afqe                          j                                     t
KESROUANE    M       UN TEnIbeck
34°00                                                                        LEBANON 0               X       -                              (                         34O00'
(f3(jj4BHo@   D~KK   -                                                                 A 
d  }RrO5jIM       MOttj                      *'cleSReyrk           -           -.*e 
. .              oSr    AIO   _,~~~ 0Slrte~Ou  ZHE r                                     PROJECT LOCATiONS:
8KheleA0Clfb,fu
oAlE5              -;                          J            Exissting VTE Schools sto
.'ohmleu  OCwio                    b'/r               '    5                  e upgradedl/expandedl
'ETIRU D  oer    ,                                    nd ayr .1<  .   JBEIRUT & MOUNT LEBANON:
BIU-  DierIK       ,E ocr  .        ki                                    1 -IndustrialTechnicalInstitute/OK
.Ho        DK - - .- o- '    .                      -s                        2 - Technical Institute for Tourism/DK
J h "       O~Be,t ed Oi-6  . 5             Khyeruh  593-High Technical School barCommercial Sc. & Tourism/DK
O   .EL CHOUF  4'       ,            'l  r                                       .P.N.E.T./DK lDehwonehl
Eer1                          E  EKAA OHAR3I             _.                    5- .P.N.E.T./BH lBirHassonf
a           ,                                      s       ~      ~~~~~~~ 6  laboratory Technical Institute/DK
R-.  }         M k M                        .7 - Infirmary National Inshtute.DK
HSa,d, f   ,  0 -- .,f'                        8  Arts and Crahs School/OK
SEJ~ ~ j...                 28 *. -  e  El Ahme    AClYA            ,10 - Hotel Management Institute/OK
.czzine~                  >ar'                                           11 ZAHotel Management Sch:ol/BH
Jehrenr9       JEZZI~AEY                                                         12itecnica VTEh Schools/ to
3310~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sorlue0'                                                                       -3crni> ahha 13i AIaltaun Technical High School
, nAIDA<>SFSabaf JZZNEf 14 - Bar2 Technical  High School
®Surufand       i       -,         0     ae                                                        16K- Hommana     l STechnicalHighSchool
15 - labor Eat aryTechnical HnsighuSchoo
.2  NABATIYE     I           r-                                                      NORTH:                School
.  f '<, 3   1  8ar;  HASBAYA  *                 17 -TDpauma Technical Hign School
'                                    IO - Hote 18 Management IHitufehDK
Ne,e,h   Jez    22   Y                                                        19Hotel AMmaraTemnSchnicl/BHihSol
,s,9  ,SOC5  -T H  L E+B A  N  p  N        -   -,                                         20- ZghortaTechnicalHHigh School
33,31                                                          oRachoiy. t t                      21 - Saicla Technical High School
Seers4                    / JMARJAYOUN   *    o..                                                              22-Maria Aziz Technical High School/Jezzine
SOUR                              / -    \  g                                                       23 - Nabatieh Technical High School
SAKDA6> ,                                                                                 24- Jwaya Technical High School
\                                                                                     I  5 - Beet JElKa r Technical High School
Ti6ninO     ~      '                                                                  26 - SaraHand Technical High School
/                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~BEKAA:
E,  ,  IlNf JEIHL   t27 - Zahleh Technical High School
28 - Mchgharo Technical High School
Bent Jbeie 929 - Dar Amec r Technical High School
00,                                    21 ~~~~~~~~~~3- HSrmea Technical High School
SOUR                                                                                                  -     ,    I  31 - Bednayel Technical High School
BI N T          35J3B                                                   36EOO             32 - Bekaa Technical & Professional Insttute
FEBRUARY 1998



