                  Document of
                The World Bank




                                             Report No: 29120

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (CPL-42980 TF-23131)

                      ON A

                     LOAN

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 29 MILLION

                     TO THE

               LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                     FOR A

LB - VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT




                  June 25, 2004

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
                                 LL 1.0 = US$ 0.0007
                                US$ 1.0 = 1,500

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CDR                        Council for Development and Reconstruction
CPPR                       Country Portfolio Performance Review
DGVTE                      Directorate General for Vocational and Technical Education
DO                         Development Objective
EDP                        Education Development Project
EMIS                       Education Management Information System
ERRP                       Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
GEP                        General Education Project
HCVTE                      Higher Council for Vocational and Technical Education
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IP                         Implementation Progress
IT                         Information Technology
MEHE                       Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MNEYS                      Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
MVTE                       Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education
PCD                        Project Concept Document
PIU                        Project Implementation Unit
PM&E                       Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PSU                        Professional Support Unit
QAG                        Quality Assurance Group
RFP                        Request for Proposal
SME                        Small and Medium Enterprise
TA                         Technical Assistance
TOR                        Terms of Reference
VTE                        Vocational and Technical Education




                         Vice President:   Christiaan J. Poortman
                     Country Director:     Joseph P. Saba
                       Sector Manager:     Regina Maria Bendokat
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Bassam Ramadan

                                          LEBANON
             LB - VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Summary of 2001 Project Budget Change                                   42
Annex 9. Summary of 2003 Project Budget Change                                   43
Annex 10. Revised Project Design Summary                                         46

Project ID: P038687                                                  Project Name: LB - VOCATIONAL & TECH.ED
Team Leader: Bassam Ramadan                                          TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: LB - VOCATIONAL & TECH.ED                                L/C/TF Number: CPL-42980; TF-23131
   Country/Department: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (77%); Central government administration
                            (16%); Tertiary education (7%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Social risk reduction (P);
                            Education for all (P); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1996                                     Effective: 07/01/1998                06/03/1999
     Appraisal: 09/03/1997                                         MTR: 06/27/2001                  06/27/2001
      Approval: 03/19/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND HIGHER EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:                Michal J. Rutkowski                            Jacques F. Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Bassam Ramadan                                 Vasilios C. Demetriou
ICR Primary Author:             Roger Pearson; Bassam Ramadan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Introduction

The following Implementation Completion Report (ICR) has been prepared in atypical circumstances. The
purpose of this introductory paragraph is to establish the context within which the project was
implemented, and to provide a rationale for the approach adopted by the ICR team. The Vocational and
Technical Education (VTE) project was appraised in 1998, and was to be implemented by the Ministry of
Vocational and Technical Education (MVTE). A complementary project for the general education sector
was appraised in March 2000 and was to be implemented by the Ministry of National Education Youth and
Sports (MNYES). Subsequently these two ministries were integrated under a single Ministry of Education
and Higher Education (MEHE). The VTE project suffered delays in implementation due to a 17-month
gap between loan negotiations and effectiveness, coupled with a weak implementation environment. This
resulted in a restructuring of the loan in June 2001 at which time, serious weaknesses in the project design
previously identified by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), became increasingly apparent. Progressive
re-focussing by the Task Team during implementation resulted in March 2003 in the preparation of a
revised Project Design Summary with a revised Project Development Objective and associated indicators.
Following re-structuring of the project, solid implementation progress was achieved. There was however
insufficient time remaining before the loan closing date to complete all activities, consequently discussions
were in hand to seek a two-year extension. During July 2003, it was agreed with the government that the
parallel General Education Project (GEP) would also be restructured and that the objectives and
sub-components of the two projects would be harmonized within a common sector-wide approach. It was
further agreed that rather than seeking an extension to the VTE loan, uncompleted activities would be
subsumed under the GEP loan which would be provided with a two year extension. In consequence, the
ICR has been undertaken recognizing that work is ongoing in a number of areas essential to achievement of
the revised development objective. As will be noted from the text which follows, the original development
objective and supporting project components were not in any way achievable in the context of a country
emerging from a war-torn situation, thus resulting in the need for major restructuring. Based on this fact,
coupled with activities ongoing under the GEP loan, evaluating project achievements against the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) Development Objectives (DO) would inevitably result in the project being
unsatisfactory at all points. This is considered to be neither helpful in terms of capturing relevant lessons
learned, nor to provide a realistic assessment of the substantive progress which has been made and is
ongoing. Consequently, the ICR team has adopted the position that the assessment should take place
against the revised DO, which better reflects the purpose and intent of the project as restructured in 2001.

As noted above, the Lebanon VTE Project was identified during a period when the country was emerging
from the aftermath of a 17-year civil war, as a result of which most public services collapsed, and a
massive out-migration of skilled and educated workers occurred. This was accompanied by damage to
physical infrastructure, a weakening of institutional capacity to support the education system, staffing by
unqualified instructors, and a lack of equipment and teaching supplies within the respective training
institutes. As a final introductory remark, it is noted that although the civil war in Lebanon ended in 1991,
the confessional, regional, feudal and cultural frictions that caused the war remain. This factor continues to
be the defining constraint to institutional change and development in Lebanon and has been reflected in all
Bank lending experience where issues such as parliamentary approvals, staff appointments, participation in
committees, or approval of documents are frequently delayed or distorted by the prevailing socio-political
construct.




                                                      - 2 -

Against this background, the strategic objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1997 were
to support (a) rehabilitation and expansion of infrastructure and institutional development; (b)
environmentally sustainable development; and (c) upgrading the human resource base and addressing
poverty. The PAD identifies that the project would help in achieving the goals of the CAS with respect to
objectives (a) and (c). Specifically:

With respect to objective (a), the Project would assist in:

     l Rehabilitating and expanding public VTE schools to maximize their efficiency and potential.

     l Building administrative capacity in MVTE.

     l Increasing managerial autonomy of public VTE schools.

     l Addressing financial sustainability issues and exploring appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.

     l Improving VTE linkages and cooperation with the private sector through improved
          representation of the private sector in advisory bodies such as the Higher Council for Vocational
          and Technical Education (HCVTE) and the School Boards. The public/private pilot with the
          "model schools would be expected to be responsive to the needs of particular sectors with growth
          potential.

With respect to objective (c), the project would assist in:

     l Developing a policy for VTE within a broader Human Resource Development framework in
          cooperation with the Ministries of general and higher education.

     l Defining the roles of the public and private sectors with respect to training and encouraging the
          private sector to provide quality training where it has comparative advantage through improved
          regulation and accreditation procedures.

     l Addressing poverty issues by expanding VTE access which is affordable by economically
          disadvantaged groups.

     l Meeting current and expected labor demand by expanding access to VTE and improving its
          relevance, responsiveness and quality.

At the time of project design, the VTE sector was characterized by an absence of clear policy or strategic
objectives; ineffective governance structures; fragility of institutional management and capacity; and weak
labor market linkages, all of which may be considered as prerequisites to an efficient and effective VTE
system.

Against this background, the Project Development Objective in the PAD states: " The objective of the
project is to improve the performance of the VTE system by making it more demand driven and
responsive to market needs. This is part of the effort to help reconstruction of a war torn country."
Achievement of this objective was to be measured through increased rates of employment of graduates,
increases in VTE enrolment, and the creation of micro-enterprise employment by VTE graduates.

While being broadly consistent with the CAS goals, the project development objective is considered to be
generic in nature and to lack focus on the core policy and institutional development issues that needed to be
addressed in order to achieve systemic improvements in relevance, responsiveness, and efficiency. It is
similarly evident from the range of CAS linked sub-objectives identified in the PAD, that the project
concept was multi-dimensional in nature, involving detailed engagement with internal and external



                                                     - 3 -

stakeholders. Recognizing the limited capacity available in the MTVE at that time, it is considered that the
project concept was over-ambitious and of consequent high risk.          With respect to the PDO related
indicators shown in the PAD, these indicators do not measure the required progress in institutional change;
do not address qualitative improvement; and, the projected increases in graduate employment are not
founded on any documented baseline data. Other output indicators shown in the Project Design Summary
are similarly either un-measurable or limited to process as opposed to result.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project experienced long delays in effectiveness primarily attributable to government concerns
regarding the complexity of the project and the magnitude of resources dedicated to Technical Assistance
(TA). Following effectiveness, implementation continued to be slow up to the point of a Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR) mission in June 2001. This mission concluded with agreements being
reached between the Bank and the Government to cancel or reduce the scope of a number of project
components. This resulted in a downsizing of the loan from US$63 million to US$29 million. It was the
view of the CPPR mission that, while the project had been scaled back in scope, the Project Development
Objective remained essentially unchanged, and in consequence, there was no requirement to undertake a
formal restructuring for Board approval. It is the view of the ICR that while this assessment was basically
correct, it would have been helpful if sharper focus had been brought to the DO at that time, coupled with a
redefinition of the key performance indicators.        This became increasingly apparent during project
implementation and was subsequently addressed by the Task Team who developed a revised Project Design
Summary in March 2003. The project development objectives specified in the revised design summary
shown in Annex 10 included the following: (i) VTE policy environment improved; (ii) VTE system
management and planning improved; and (iii) VTE system program profile, operating procedures, and
physical assets are realigned with labor market requirements.The foregoing objectives and associated
indicators are considered to better reflect the priority needs of the sector while also being realistic,
achievable and measurable.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project design included the following three components as detailed below:

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. (US$10.01 million)
This component included four sub-components, having objectives related to (i) strengthening management
and efficiency of the VTE system; (ii) developing VTE policies; (iii) VTE image improvement; and (iv)
establishing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

The above sub-components were further divided into sub sub-components having the following objectives
and financial resource allocations:

       i. assist the MVTE to define the needs of its proposed planning unit in order to conduct continuous
            audit and control of VTE system activities (US$0.77 million);

      ii. develop quality assurance operational manuals and procedures based on ISO-9000 (US$0.81
            million);

      iii. develop a computerized management information system to assist in policy formulation, and the
            monitoring of education performance and efficiency indicators (US$0.88 million);

      iv. design and undertake four broad studies to guide policy formulation (US$1.78 million);

       v. provide managerial skills training to school principals and administrative staff to prepare them
            for efficient management of school resources (US$0.18 million);



                                                     - 4 -

      vi. draft a legal and regulatory framework (US$0.22 million); prepare and implement a VTE image
           campaign (US$2.7 million); and

     vii. establish an effective PIU (US$2.35 million).

Component 2. Improvement of Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training
This component included four sub components having objectives related to (i) addressing current and
expected training demand; (ii) developing quality standards; (iii) developing modern curricula; and (iv)
improving pre- and in-service training of teachers.

The above sub-components were further divided into sub sub-components having the following objectives
and financial resource allocations:

       i. develop a competency assessment methodology applicable to the Lebanese economic
           environment (US$1.64 million);

       ii. undertake an employment needs assessment at the enterprise level (US$1.51 million);

      iii. establish advisory boards at each VTE school (US$0.09 million);

      iv. develop training and accreditation quality standards (US$1.09 million);

       v. develop curricula for new specializations and upgrade existing curricula (US$9.53 million);

      vi. develop curricula for retraining programs (US$0.76 million);

     vii. develop curricula for worker upgrading (US$0.48 million);

     viii. develop curricula for entrepreneurship training to start their own Small and Medium Enterprises
           (SME) (US$0.11 million);

      ix. develop an electronic database of examination questions for the new curricula (US$0.38 million);


       x. develop and produce teachers guides, student manuals and teaching aides (US$6.30 million);

      xi. train trainers for pre-service programs (US$0.60 million);

     xii. train trainers for in-service training (US$0.50 million);

     xiii. train trainers for entrepreneurship training (US$0.37 million); and

     xiv. upgrade of existing VTE teachers (US$2.20 million).

Component 3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement.
This component included two sub-components having objectives relating to:

       i. the expansion and retrofitting of existing schools (US$ 29 million); and

       ii. the development of new model schools (US$ 12.74 million).

It is apparent from the range and scope of project sub-components described above, that at the time of
project preparation, the VTE system in Lebanon was in need of fundamental renewal. While the project
components are broadly aligned with the DO outlined in the PAD, they are considered to be overly complex
and essentially unachievable within the context of the capacity of the Directorate General of Vocational and
Technical Education (DGVTE) who, at the time of loan appraisal, had a total staff complement of 32
employees. Questions must also be raised regarding the ability of a PIU to prepare bidding documents,



                                                      - 5 -

manage technical committees, manage TA providers and consultants, and facilitate adoption of the outputs
from so many project sub-components. As a final observation on the scope of project components,
accomplishment of the development objective demands a progression of implementation that requires some
components to be completed as a prerequisite for initiating others. Taking into account Bank procurement
processes, together with internal administrative processes in Lebanon, it is the assessment of the ICR that
all project components could not realistically be implemented within the duration of the loan if such a
logical progression was to be maintained.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the period between completion of loan negotiations in January 1998, loan effectiveness in July
1999, and the CPPR mission in June 2001, little progress was made on project implementation.
Consequently, during the course of the mission agreement was reached between the Bank and the
Government to downsize the loan from US$63 million to US$29 million.                 Downsizing of Project
Component 1 was achieved through eliminating sub-components relating to quality and management
procedures; marketing research and surveys; school based management; regulatory and legal framework;
and image improvement. The total value of TA activities under Component 1 was reduced from US$10.01
million to US$2.62 million. Downsizing of Project Component 2 was achieved through elimination of TA
related to quality standards and the establishment of school boards. Resources allocated to other TA
activities were also significantly reduced, resulting in a reduction of TA for Component 2 from US$17.14
million to US$7.49 million. Downsizing of Project Component 3 was achieved through the elimination of
resources for new model schools resulting in reduction in this component from US$41.74 million to US$21
million.

Reduction in the size of the loan was accompanied by agreement to consolidate a number of smaller
components into packages that addressed rehabilitation needs, strategy, labor market needs assessment and
tracer studies, curriculum and examinations, and training. Detailed re-scoping of the Terms of Reference
(TOR) for all TA components was undertaken during a Supervision Mission in September 2001. The ICR
considers the agreement to reduce the scale of the project and consolidate sub-components, to have been a
logical and practical measure, better aligned with both sector priorities and the capacity of DGVTE and the
PIU. A comparative summary of loan components and associated financial resource allocations is provided
in Annex 2 to the ICR.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Following project identification, a Project Concept Paper was prepared, and a Review Meeting convened
on October 15, 1996. Based on the summary of comments provided by 8 reviewers, key concerns raised
included: the projected size of the loan; absence of government policy for the sector; a fragile institutional
environment; weak understanding of the labor market; and, potential sustainability of the investment.
These issues were to be addressed during project preparation and appraisal, resulting in a PAD dated
February 27, 1998. On October 11, 1998, MNSHD was advised by QAG that the VTE project had been
selected for "Quality at Entry In Depth Assessment". The assessment process was rigorously conducted
during November and December 1998, resulting in 5 of the 8 applicable elements being rated "Marginal", 3
of the 8 elements "Unsatisfactory", and an Overall Assessment rating of "Unsatisfactory". While MNSHD
staff vigorously challenged the QAG assessment, project implementation experience has validated the
concerns raised by those who reviewed the project concept, and the QAG team. The ICR concurs with the
quality at entry rating as "Unsatisfactory".




                                                     - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As noted in the Introduction, the ICR team has undertaken its assessment of achievement against the
project as restructured in 2001, together with the revised DO and associated performance indicators. The
revised DO included the following three elements: (i) VTE policy environment improved; (ii) VTE system
management and planning improved; and (iii) VTE system program profile, operating procedures, and
physical assets realigned with labor market requirements. The ICR rates achievement of the first element
to be "satisfactory". This is seen in Ministerial direction that has adopted a sector-wide approach to
development including a harmonized approach to the common pillars of strategic planning, organizational
development, sector financing, and the development of a common Education Management Information
System (EMIS). A VTE policy framework has been completed and is being used as the foundation for the
development of a VTE strategic plan. The ICR rates the second element to be "satisfactory". This is seen
in ongoing strategic planning activities, and the establishment of a Development and Planning Unit in
DGVTE. The ICR rates the third element as incomplete and therefore "unsatisfactory", recognizing that
ongoing activities under the restructured GEP loan are expected to contribute towards further progress in
this area.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: VTE Policy Planning and Management
Following restructuring, Component 1 included the following three principal elements: (i) formulation of a
VTE sector strategy; (ii) development of a Vocational Education Management Information System (EMIS);
and (iii) developing the mandate, organizational structure and operational procedures for a Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation (PM&E) unit to be established in MEHE.

VTE Strategy
The project design recognized the need to establish a policy framework and sector strategy as the primary
touchstone that would guide the framing and implementation of all other project components. Consequently
this element was retained during restructuring, and given prominence during all subsequent supervision
activities. Work was initiated during 2001 when MEHE established a working group to prepare a VTE
policy framework. Stakeholder groups were formed, issues and options discussed, and a national workshop
convened. Finally, a strategic framework document was prepared, approved by the Minister and ratified by
the Council of Ministers. The strategic framework articulated a series of policy objectives under the
following thematic headings: (i) orientation of the sector, access and equity; (ii) stakeholder and labor
market linkages; (iii) relevance, quality and efficiency; (iv) governance, finance and accountability; and (v)
institutional capacity and development. This work, guided by a team internal to MEHE, was effectively
accomplished and comprises a "satisfactory" outcome that provides the necessary guidance to an external
TA team that was subsequently engaged to prepare the sector strategy itself.

Delays were subsequently experienced in the revision of the TOR for the TA assignment, and the
processing of consultant selection procedures. This was further aggravated by delays on the part of the
consultant who finally fielded their team during October 2003. At the time of preparing the ICR, measures
are in hand under the restructured GEP project to coordinate the work of the two consulting teams who are
preparing the general education and vocational education sector strategies, with a view to issuing an
integrated sector wide document. The TA is however incomplete, and therefore "unsatisfactory" in terms
of progress at loan closing.

Development of a Vocational Management Information System
The purpose of this sub-component was to establish a computerized system for the VTE sector in Lebanon.



                                                     - 7 -

An Information Technology (IT) Task Team was established by MEHE and TOR developed to undertake a
needs assessment and proposed system design. The deliverable provided by the selected consultant
includes all necessary information upon which to formulate TOR and technical specifications for hardware
and software procurement. At the date of loan closing initiatives are in hand to integrate the technical
specifications prepared for the VTE and GEP information systems into a single procurement package.
Recognizing that the objective to build and commission an operating EMIS has yet to be achieved, the
component is rated as "unsatisfactory" at the output level.

Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
The purpose of this sub-component was to develop a framework for the mission, mandate, structure,
functional organization, staffing and operating procedures of a PM&E Unit that will support MEHE in
implementing a development plan for VTE in Lebanon. Recommendations made by the selected consultant
were put on hold by the former Minister pending a wider reorganization by the ministry. During a
supervision mission in October 2003, establishment of the PM&E unit was identified as a condition for the
consideration of further restructuring of the loan. MEHE have subsequently established a Development
and Planning Unit, staffed principally by former members of the PIU. This sub-component is rated as
"satisfactory".

PIU and Capacity Building
The original project design assigned executing agency responsibilities to the MVTE. The mandate assigned
to the PIU in the PAD was to be "responsible for day-to-day coordination of all project activities and
would report directly to the Minister of MVTE". The sub-component of the project relating to the PIU was
designed to support the following:

       i. establish a PIU and recruit 5 core staff members;

      ii. train the PIU staff in office management, planning and procurement;

      iii. engage consultants to strengthen the PIU in PM&E;

      iv. recruit local consultants to assist in various legal and technical matters; and

       v. provide operating funds for the PIU and Technical Committees.

The PIU was formally established in January 2000 and initially comprised a Project Director, a Technical
Education Officer, a Finance Officer, a Procurement Officer and an Architect. Initial training was carried
out locally and at the ILO Center in Turin. During the period January 2000 to June 2001, little progress
was made in project implementation which, combined with other factors, resulted in downsizing the loan.
Progress achieved during the next four months was such that the project status was upgraded to
satisfactory. In March 2002, the PIU itself was restructured with the former Technical Education Officer
assuming the role of Project Director. Since that date, the PIU has focused vigorously on the preparation
of bidding documents for TA assignments, managing technical committees, ensuring consultant deliverables
were fully consistent with both contractual requirements and MEHE objectives, and coordinating with
DGVTE to engage the relevant departments in the implementation of TA activities. Within the context of
the specific objective of the sub-component, and those issues over which the PIU had control, the outcome
of this component is rated as "satisfactory".

Component 2: VTE System Capacity Development
During restructuring, Component 2 activities that were retained were those that focused on increasing the
quality and relevance of program design and delivery. This included: (i) undertaking tracer studies,
employment needs assessment, and competency profiles; (ii) assessing laboratory and workshop equipment



                                                      - 8 -

needs; (iii) piloting the development of an automated examination database; and (iv) undertaking
pedagogical and occupational training of teaching staff.

Tracer Studies and Needs Assessment
The purpose of these studies was to: (i) develop a profile of prospective VTE graduates and tracer studies
of existing graduates; (ii) identify the characteristics of the labor market in Lebanon and undertake an
employment needs assessment; and (iii) develop competency profiles for 40 occupational specializations in
high demand.     Work carried out by the selected consultant under the tracer study component covered in
excess of 10,000 students and graduates. Issues examined included the students academic background,
socio-economic background, reasons for selecting the VTE option, perceptions of teaching methods,
curricula and equipment, employment experience relative to the specialization studied, wage levels, and
other issues relevant to the internal and external efficiency of the VTE system.          The labor market
component provided an overview of the current status of Labor Market Information in Lebanon, together
with projections obtained from a country-wide survey of employers in the respective economic sectors.
Competency profiles were developed using a DACUM approach. Capacity has been built in DGVTE, and
the training centers through their participation in undertaking tracer studies, needs analysis, and DACUM
committees. The PM&E unit is currently using the information to formulate recommendations relating to
changes in the program framework. In this context, the sub-component is rated as "satisfactory".

Assessing Laboratory and Workshop Equipment Needs
The objective of this TA study was to develop an equipment procurement distribution and maintenance
process that would ensure that all VTE schools were provided with the tools and equipment necessary to
achieve the learning outcomes specified in the approved curricula. The contracted TA team began the work
by undertaking a comprehensive survey of existing equipment in each of the VTE schools. All equipment
was bar-coded and an asset management procedure developed. This was followed by the establishment of
32 curriculum committees comprising staff of DGVTE schools, who were tasked to identify all tools or
equipment necessary to achieve the specified learning outcomes. Variances between available and required
equipment were documented, and technical specifications for inclusion in bidding documents prepared. The
systems developed are now being used by DGVTE for asset management and as the basis for equipment
procurement as funds become available. This sub-component is rated as "highly satisfactory".

Piloting the Development of an Automated Examination Database
The purpose of this sub-component was to examine the potential for increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the administration of examinations through the development of an electronic database of
examination questions, together with a parallel review of teachers guides and student manuals. The subject
selected for pilot development was electronics, using curricula recently upgraded by UNESCO. A
comprehensive database of questions of different types and degrees of difficulty was developed in order to
evaluate student learning outcomes at all points of the curriculum. Administrative protocols regarding
access, management or modification of the database were developed, and user training completed. Pilot
testing was satisfactorily completed by DGVTE and the system is ready for expansion to accommodate
other subject areas. DGVTE personnel were active collaborators in the preparation of questions, and have
demonstrated an ability to use the system effectively following completion of training by the TA provider.
This sub-component is rated as "highly satisfactory".

Undertaking Pedagogical and Occupational Training of Teaching Staff.
The objective of this sub-component was to upgrade the capabilities of the national vocational teacher
training center, train a group of Master Trainers in various disciplines, and finally train 2500 vocational
instructors. At the date of loan closing, TOR for the selection of a TA provider had been prepared with no
objection being provided by the Bank. The activity is to be completed under the restructured GEP loan.


                                                     - 9 -

The activity is incomplete at the time of loan closure, and therefore rated as "unsatisfactory".

Component 3: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Equipment Procurement
Decisions arising from project restructuring included canceling the construction of new vocational schools,
and limiting civil works to the rehabilitation of existing schools.       It was also agreed to restrict the
procurement of equipment to that which was urgently required to achieve basic learning outcomes as
specified in the revised curricula. Outputs from these activities are discussed below.

Rehabilitation of Existing Schools.
Following a survey completed by a civil engineering consultant, 30 schools in four regions of the country
were identified as requiring rehabilitation. In December 2002, five contracts were awarded to four separate
contracting companies. Three of these contractors performed satisfactorily, while the fourth undertook the
work with extensive delays.       Supervision reports from the supervision consultants were timely and
professional. All work was eventually complete by loan closing date. In addition to civil works, 25 schools
within the system were provided with generators to serve as either main or standby sources of electricity.
Procurement was undertaken by CDR with all generators subsequently installed. This sub-component is
rated as "satisfactory".

Equipment Procurement.
The objective of this sub-component was to build on a study undertaken by UNESCO and to purchase
equipment in support of the electronics discipline. Bidding documents were launched by the Council for
Development and Reconstruction (CDR), and bids received. The resultant bid evaluation deemed all bids
received to be non-compliant. Following completion of the Equipment Needs Analysis TA study, priorities
changed and it was agreed to use the allocated funds for the procurement of urgently needed basic
instructional equipment in five core discipline areas. Technical specifications for this equipment were
prepared by DGVTE forwarded to CDR for procurement action. CDR subsequently recruited a consultant
to review these specifications, resulting in minor modifications. At the closing date of the loan, no further
action had been taken.      The sub-component is incomplete, and therefore rated as "unsatisfactory".
Equipment procurement is to be completed under the restructured GEP loan building on the output from the
Equipment Needs Analysis TA.

Objective/Outcome Conclusion
Outputs from the TA activities completed by the loan closing date are all rated satisfactory or highly
satisfactory.  Those to be completed under the restructured GEP loan are in a satisfactory state of
readiness. At the outcome level, a measure of capacity has been built in DGVTE and training centers
through participation in technical committees, assisting TA providers with data gathering, pilot testing,
undertaking training and supporting curricula revisions. This capacity needs additional strengthening in
order to support the introduction of systemic change. In terms of achieving the DO, the ICR rates the
achievement as "unsatisfactory" as of the loan closing date. Based on progress during the past two years
however, a satisfactory rating could be anticipated following the completion of outstanding activities under
the restructured GEP loan.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The cost benefit analysis in the PAD was based on the estimated streams of income earned by VTE
graduates and non-VTE graduates (unskilled workers) over a 30-year period. Costs included the project
investment and recurrent costs together with opportunity costs. The economic internal rate of return (ERR)
and net present value (NPV) were based on the net benefit and a discount rate of 12%. Simulations
indicated that the ERR was highly dependent upon the two parameters of (i) income disparity between VTE
and non-VTE graduates; and (ii) graduation rate. Income disparities were based on two labor survey



                                                    - 10 -

studies carried out in Lebanon which showed that the average hourly rate for a skilled worker was US$3.08
with the corresponding rate for an unskilled worker US$1.79. Graduation rates were projected to increase
from 32% to 57% by 2007. Building on these baseline rates, incremental wage differentials were then
estimated for graduates from Bank funded schools, and for those from the project model schools. Using
these figures, the ERR was estimated to be 15.8% corresponding to a NPV of US$76.9 million.

It is apparent from tracer studies and labor market demand analysis carried out during the course of the
project that the foregoing approach did not take account of many of the factors surrounding vocational
training and the labor market in Lebanon. Firstly, the simulation assumes that all graduates immediately
find employment. The labor market demand analysis at the cautiously optimistic level for the period 2003
to 2008 shows a surplus of 2215 graduates. Secondly, the simulation assumes that all graduates will find
employment at the skilled worker level. This is clearly not the case. The tracer study shows that the wage
differentials between VTE graduates and non-graduates are marginal, and that many graduates find
employment as unskilled or semi-skilled workers. This situation is further illustrated by the fact that less
than 50% of graduates find work in the specialization studied. The PAD simulation also does not take
account of the rapid expansion of the VTE system proposed by government at the time of preparation, and
the associated consequences for employment of graduates and wage impacts. It is the view of the ICR that
the economic analysis shown in the PAD was seriously over-optimistic. While improved data is available
as a result of project activities, additional surveys would be necessary to develop projections having a high
level of reliability.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
While estimating a financial rate of return is not applicable, the PAD estimates the fiscal impact. This is
undertaken by estimating recurrent operating costs and making assumptions regarding increased
efficiencies associated with reducing the student teacher ratio. The PAD indicates that "the project is
sustainable as the above amounts do not represent an undue burden over existing budgets and are taken
into account in the projected recurrent budgets of MVTE". This statement was made within the knowledge
that the government had negotiated loans from other sources that would see a doubling of total enrolment of
the VTE system. It is the view of the ICR that in light of this knowledge, the question of financial
sustainability and economic viability should have been more rigorously examined at the system-wide level.
Outputs from the sector financing study that is to be commissioned under the restructured GEP loan will
provide the information required for more rigorous and reliable analysis to be conducted in the future.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institution holding principal responsibility for the management and administration of the VTE system
in Lebanon is the DGVTE which reports to the MEHE. As noted previously, DGVTE was seriously
understaffed at project inception, with little having changed at the time of closing the loan. The DGVTE
approved staffing level currently comprises 246 positions, of which 201 are vacant. Recognizing this
situation at the time of restructuring, the project supported the establishment of a Professional Support Unit
(PSU). This unit was staffed by a Coordinator and twelve professionals assigned to work in the areas of
PM&E; Automation of Examinations; Labor Market and Tracer Studies; VTE Equipment; Information
Systems; VTE curriculum; and Teacher Training. The purpose of establishing the unit was to serve as a
bridge between the TA providers and DGVTE as the respective TA activities were being implemented, and
that the PSU staff would subsequently be transferred into DGVTE where they would lead the
implementation of new activities built on TA outputs. While PSU staff developed some skills, the initiative
was not successful on two counts. Firstly, the PSU Coordinator provided weak leadership and a low level
of guidance to the staff, and secondly, DGVTE were unable to engage PSU staff at the end of their
contractual appointments due to a continuing public service hiring freeze. Three of the PSU staff remain as
members of the newly established VTE Development and Planning Unit.



                                                      - 11 -

At other levels, a measure of institutional development has occurred through the participation of MEHE,
DGVTE and Training Center staff members in various project activities. These include membership of
technical committees responsible for evaluating TA proposals; committees established to coordinate TA
provider activities and evaluate their deliverables; undertaking training related to asset management and the
examination database; and collaborating on the identification of information and procedure flows for the
Vocational EMIS.       One of the more significant institutional development outcomes has been the
establishment of a Development and Planning Unit within DGVTE that has a reporting relationship to the
Minister. This unit is led by the former PIU Director has a mandate that focuses on the formulation of
system reform initiatives built on the findings and recommendations of the respective project TA
assignments.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although the civil war in Lebanon ended in 1991, the confessional, regional, feudal and cultural frictions
that caused the war remain. At the present time, social and political stability is achieved through
maintenance of this confessional balance in all aspects of political and institutional life. It is this factor that
has become the defining characteristic and, in many cases a defining constraint to institutional change and
development in the country. In terms of project implementation, issues such as parliamentary approvals,
staff appointments, participation in committees, approval of documents, can result in severe
implementation delays, and can be traced back to institutional cultural behavior conditioned by the
prevailing socio-political construct. The impact of this factor was seriously underestimated during the
project design phase, and calls for sober consideration in all project activity in Lebanon.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the course of project implementation, the designated implementing agency, the Ministry of
Vocational and Technical Education was amalgamated with a newly established Ministry of Education and
Higher Education. Other cabinet changes resulted in the project being implemented under the mandate of
three different Ministers. Recognizing that ministerial approval in Lebanon is required at detailed levels of
decision making, any change in Minister incurs inevitable delays in project implementation. Each
Ministerial change was accompanied by changes in Ministerial Advisors resulting in changed priorities,
philosophies, and reporting relationships. The cumulative effect arising from ministerial changes were
delays such that the completion of project activities prior to the loan closing date became unachievable.

The fragility of the DGVTE was identified during project preparation. Government assurances were given
in October 1999 that 18 additional staff members would be engaged by DGVTE. Failure to fill these staff
positions was identified in a supervision mission in May 2000, and again followed up in January 2001,
when no action had been taken. The rationale provided was the imposition of a public service hiring freeze
beyond the control of the Ministry. The consequence however was the absence of capacity within DGVTE
to collaborate meaningfully with TA providers or to absorb the output from their work. It is within this
context that the Task Team agreed to support the establishment of the PSU discussed under paragraph 4.5.
As noted previously, the PSU was less than successful, reinforcing the imperative to have a minimum level
of institutional capacity in place prior to initiating project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation arrangements identified in the PAD designated the MVTE as the executing agency with a
PIU to be established reporting directly to the Minister. All three Ministers who held office during the
course of the project took the position that ministerial approval was required for all details of project
implementation. This fact introduced a disconnect in the management of the project between responsibility,


                                                       - 12 -

authority and accountability. That is, while the Minister exercised authority, responsibility was placed with
the PIU, together with accountability for maintaining schedules and achievement of results. Similarly,
DGVTE as a primary beneficiary had no direct role or responsibility in project implementation. In an effort
to address this issue, the Task Team recommended the establishment of an Executive Committee, chaired
by the Minister, and comprising the Director Generals of General Education and Vocational Education as
well as the Project Directors from the two education projects and CDR. This committee was established
with clear Terms of Reference and a bi-monthly meeting schedule. The Committee fulfilled its intended
function during the first few months of operation, then progressively failed to meet. In consequence the
project suffered from a lack of rigor, and an absence of clear project management process, at all stages of
implementation, resulting in cumulative delays.

A second impediment to effective project implementation was the role played by CDR as the procurement
agency for civil works and goods. In the case of the VTE project, CDR was responsible for procurement of
generators for schools, rehabilitation works and instructional equipment. As the central procurement
agency for the whole country, CDR is overloaded. Their performance was aggravated by an absence of
clear business standards, and a lack of commitment to principles defined in a responsibility matrix
established early in the life of the project. In the case of equipment procurement, technical specifications
prepared by the PIU were modified by DGVTE, who forwarded them to CDR, who retained a consultant,
who again reviewed and amended the specifications without reference to the end user, all of which
consumed time and effort with no positive result.

Technical Committees to support consultant selection, proposal evaluation, evaluation of consultant
deliverables, and implementation support were established by the Ministry at an early stage of project
implementation. Recognizing that this work was incremental to existing duties, a stipend was paid out of
counterpart funds for participation. While the committees provided valuable support to the functions
identified above, in a number of instances committee members abused their mandate either through
extending the approval process to enhance their stipend, or refusal to approve consultant deliverables due to
disagreement with other committee members. This issue remained unresolved throughout the project and
was the cause of a number of significant delays in project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
During the course of the project three events occurred impacting on scope and financing. The first event
arose from the June 2001 CPPR mission when the project budget was reduced from US$68.89 million to
US$33.17 million. As noted previously in the ICR, this was attributable to the 17 month delay in loan
effectiveness coupled with implementation delays and mutual agreement between the Bank and the
government that the level of TA was beyond the absorptive capacity of MVTE. A summary of the 2001
project budget change is provided in Annex 8. The second reduction in the project budget occurred in June
2003 as a result of agreements reached between the government and the Bank to refocus the investment on
core issues related to policy, strategy, planning, and institutional capacity building necessary to complete
upgrading of the instructional cycle. Project changes at this time were also predicated on a two year loan
extension. A summary of the 2003 project budget change is provided in Annex 9. Finally, based on
agreement between the government and the Bank to consolidate and harmonize the activities of the two
education sector loans under a common "Education Development Project" (EDP), it was agreed to close the
VTE loan, and complete outstanding VTE related activities, under the EDP project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Both the original and the revised project development objectives focussed on moving the VTE system from



                                                     - 13 -

a supply driven model to a demand driven model. This clearly implies that steps must be taken to place the
employer community in the drivers' seat when it comes to articulating employability skills, employee
competencies, and how they are to be developed. The only component to address this objective in the
original project design was an allocation of US$0.09 million to establish advisory boards at each college.
During restructuring, the component was eliminated. While steps were taken to consult widely with
employers as part of the needs assessment TA, no sustainable forum exists for employers to become a
working partner in the human capital development process. In the absence of such a forum, sustainability
remains an open question.

Government objectives to expand the VTE system in Lebanon were in place during the time of project
preparation. These decisions were taken in the absence of a sector development strategy or knowledge
relating to the quantitative or qualitative structure of the labor market. During the course of implementation
of the Bank funded VTE project, the Government negotiated the following loans and grants:
      l US$50 million from the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development to fund the design,
           construction and equipping of 14 new public VTE schools;
      l US$30 million from the Islamic Development Bank to partially finance civil works and provision
           of equipment for 10 new public VTE schools;
      l US$4 million from the OPEC Fund for International Development to finance the construction of
           4 schools in North Lebanon;
      l US$18.2 million from the Government of Lebanon to cover building and equipping 14 schools;
           and
      l DM 5 million provided by GTZ to assist with introducing the Dual System training model and
           upgrade training methods.

At the date of the ICR, a total of 56 new public VTE schools are being, or will be built, in various regions
of the country. Completion of these schools will potentially double the number of students enrolled in
public VTE programs. This raises two sustainability issues. Firstly, the action would appear to be
contrary to the objective of establishing a demand driven system, and secondly, the question of financial
sustainability has yet to be determined. This latter issue is to be addressed through an education sector
financing study to be completed under the restructured GEP.

Outputs from TA assignments related to tracer studies, needs assessment and competency assessment have
thrown into sharp relief the misalignment between the VTE program framework and the requirements of the
labor market. Addressing these misalignments will call for the elimination of some programs, changing
regional distribution of program delivery, reducing program durations, and other factors that will have
political implications. As has been noted previously in the ICR, socio-political stability in Lebanon is
largely determined by ensuring the maintenance of traditional political or confessional interest.
Consequently if program changes are made, they are likely to be made cautiously, against blended labor
market and political criteria. This does not represent a positive environment for the sustainability of
outputs.

Issues contributing positively towards sustainability include the establishment of a Development and
Planning Unit at DGVTE. This unit has a specific mandate to work with project outputs and formulate
recommendations to the Minister regarding measures that will enhance relevance, quality, and efficiency of
the system. The Development and Planning Unit will also be responsible for information management and
IT development, as well as performance monitoring and evaluation of the VTE system. Other positive
elements include: (i) a policy framework is in place which provides direction for the VTE system; (ii) the
TA activities either have addressed, or will address under the restructured GEP loan, all components of the
instructional cycle necessary for reform of the system; (iii) the PIU ensured that all TA assignments


                                                      - 14 -

adopted a practical focus with realistic deliverables that could quickly be translated into operational
change; (iv) there was broadly based participation by DGVTE and training center staff in project
components such as needs assessment, Vocational EMIS, automation of exams, and the analysis of
equipment needs which helped to build readiness for implementation.

Given the continuing fragility of the institutional environment, together with expansion of the system in
response to social demand, and the absence of strong mechanisms for engagement with the employer
community, the ICR assesses sustainability as "Unlikely".

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements need to be discussed within the context of the decision to close the VTE loan being
taken concurrently with a restructuring of the GEP loan, and a harmonizing of loan components under a
coordinated sector development approach. Outputs from this work will include: (i) complementary sector
strategies for both general education and vocational education; (ii) an analysis of public and private
financing for both education streams including a sustainability analysis and recommendations for
adjustments; (iii) an organizational review of MEHE and related institutions together with
recommendations relating to adjustments that would more effectively serve the management and
administrative requirements of the two education streams; and (iv) an operational EMIS also serving the
two education streams.       In addition, instructor training, extension of the examination database and
equipment procurement will be completed.

Following completion of the foregoing activities, the indicators that should be used to monitor transition to
regular operations are those associated with the project development objective as shown in the Revised
Project Design Summary provided in Annex 10. As noted previously in the ICR, MEHE has established a
Development and Planning Unit, which includes a monitoring and evaluation function. Follow up on the
project performance, measured against the indicators referenced above, will be undertaken and reported as
part of Bank supervision of the restructured GEP loan.

The underlying purpose behind restructuring of the two education sector loans in Lebanon was a
recognized need to firmly establish the knowledge base and institutional capacity, prior to embarking on
sector reform program activities themselves. The need for reform, and the imperative to facilitate school to
employment amongst growing numbers of youth is clear. The ICR recommends that an impact evaluation
be undertaken within a two-year period, and decisions regarding follow-up project activity be made on the
basis of findings at that time.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification of the need for assistance to the VTE sector arose from support provided to MVTE through
the Bank funded Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (ERRP) which included
rehabilitation of VTE schools and curriculum development. Building on this work, an identification
mission was fielded and a Project Concept Document (PCD) prepared. The PCD was widely circulated,
resulting in responses from 8 peer reviewers. These responses identified numerous issues that would need
to be addressed during project preparation. Recurring themes related to weak justification, undocumented
labor market demand, absence of government policy for the sector, weak employer community linkages,
financial sustainability, and unclear mechanisms for enhancing relevance and responsiveness. The PCD
Review Meeting consolidated these themes and recommended that the project preparation team revise the
document and focus on (i) reducing the scale of the project; (ii) assisting the government to articulate a
policy for the sector; (iii) building capacity, and (iv) strengthening collaboration with employers. Project


                                                     - 15 -

preparation was subsequently undertaken with the assistance of a PHRD grant. A limited number of
reports are on file regarding preparation activities, a draft PAD was prepared and an Appraisal Mission
scheduled for October 1996 with Loan Negotiations to take place in January 1997.                 Prior to loan
negotiation, the Project Advisor provided a highly critical review of the PAD. Issues raised included:
inconsistency between activities and objectives, unjustified project rationale, financial sustainability,
economic analysis, implementation arrangements, and the feasibility of introducing required regulatory
change.    It is apparent from a review of the PAD that the comments were subsequently addressed
cosmetically as opposed to substantively. The ICR regards failure to address the foregoing essential
elements of sound project design, as the first of a number of fault lines in the lending process.

In November 1998, the project was selected for Quality at Entry - Intensive Review. The QAG report
issued in December 1998 rated the project as marginal on 5 of 8 elements and unsatisfactory on the
remaining 3. The supporting text again identified weaknesses in project design, fiscal sustainability, flawed
economic analysis, over-ambitious loan size, lack of coordination with other donors/lenders, and lack of
alignment between objectives and project components. These comprise recurring themes from the point of
project identification. Although, the region responded elaborately to the QAG assessment in an attempt to
address its concerns, the fact that no concrete steps were taken to address these issues immediately
following release of QAG findings is regarded as a second fault line.

Following a 17 month delay, the project became effective on June 3, 1999. In a follow-up letter to a
mission to Lebanon that occurred between May 30 and June 4, 1999 the Bank indicated to the Government:
"we believe that the original orientation of the project emphasized existing industrial programs without
adequate analysis of their need or relevance to the labor market and the national economy. Thus we have
serious reservations about proceeding with implementation of all project activities as outlined in the
Project Appraisal Document. We also conclude that the Technical Assistance component of the project
should be revised both in content and in size in light of the needs assessment and in line with the
absorptive capacity of the Ministry. Based on the above I would like to suggest that your colleagues at
the Ministry revise the work plan they had prepared and transmit this revised plan to the Bank for
review". It is apparent from the record that, while having identified structural weaknesses in the project, no
concrete action was taken by the Bank to support a reorientation of project activities.

A CPPR mission fielded in July 1999 noted lack of progress on implementation. Preparation for a CPPR
mission in June 2001 recommended closing the loan. This position was vigorously opposed by the
government, resulting in a compromise position to significantly reduce the size of the loan, and particularly
to reduce the magnitude of TA. It is the view of the ICR that this would have been the time to engage in a
formal restructuring of the project and to support this restructuring with technical assistance that would
re-orient the PDO, re-scope each component and address all outstanding project implementation issues.
This did not occur, thus placing the burden on the PIU to restructure all TA activities and associated TOR
while continuing to implement ongoing project activities.

Subsequent to downscaling the project in June 2001 the Bank provided a high level of TA support through
supervision missions. This was primarily of a remedial nature however, which could have been obviated
had a more proactive position been taken at the time when structural weaknesses in project design were
first identified. In light of the above, the ICR rates Bank performance in project identification, preparation
and appraisal as "highly unsatisfactory".

7.2 Supervision:
A review of the project supervision history indicates two phases, each having a different orientation.
During the first phase, from appraisal to the point of loan restructuring in 2001, supervision occurred



                                                     - 16 -

approximately every six months and essentially reported on progress or lack of progress. There is little
evidence of vigorous engagement with the ministry during this period, or of the provision of support that
would assist in resolving issues arising from the characteristics of the project design referenced above.
Similarly, during the first phase, the project ratings for both DO and Implementation Progress (IP) changed
from satisfactory to unsatisfactory with no concrete remedial action being recommended.             Following
restructuring, the Bank adopted a much more proactive position with supervision missions taking place
every three to four months. Similarly, this second phase included the provision of a significant level of
analytical, technical, and advisory support to the PIU and the Ministry.         This support was provided
through a team having skill sets in economics, IT, technical and vocational education, procurement, and
financial management. Following restructuring, the project was upgraded to satisfactory based on changed
objectives and very substantial progress being achieved in implementation of the project components.
Satisfactory status was maintained up to loan closing, based on progress achieved and prior understanding
that a two year extension was to be requested. Bank management supported the Task Team Leader in the
field and participated in missions during two critical stages. Throughout the difficult history of the project,
borrower and Bank relationships were maintained in a constructive environment. In light of the above, the
ICR rates overall supervision as "satisfactory".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall lending and supervision performance of the Bank is rated as "unsatisfactory". The basis of this
evaluation is: (i) while a significant level of resources were provided for project preparation through both
Bank funds and a PHRD grant, there is little evidence in the project files to indicate a critical analysis of
the policy environment and institutional capacity, or the design and validation of mechanisms that would
effectively engage the employer community in moving towards a more demand driven VTE system as
envisaged by the project objective; (ii) project appraisal and loan negotiations moved ahead without having
addressed critical issues identified by the Project Advisor; (iii) a proactive position to address QAG
identified weaknesses was not adopted until a critical stage was reached in the lack of implementation
progress; (iv) early supervision efforts were not sufficiently proactive to resolve challenges arising from
gaps in project design.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Constructive working relationships were established between MVTE and the Bank through implementation
of the VTE component of the ERRP project. Project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant, and
guided by Bank staff with full participation by MVTE.            During preparation, MVTE assembled all
requested data, facilitated workshops involving training center staff, employers, and the staff of related
ministries. MVTE also supported scoping studies for physical rehabilitation and school expansion. GOL
should nevertheless have taken advantage of the resources available through project preparation, to ensure
that the project design was underpinned by a more substantive analysis of policy options and strategic
objectives for the sector. GOL should also have been more explicit in terms of the regulatory, financial,
and institutional constraints that would inhibit implementation of outputs from the wide array of TA
activities upon which the project design was founded. Within the context of the responsibilities of the
borrower during preparation, Borrower performance is rated as "unsatisfactory".

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Political commitment was maintained at a high level throughout the duration of the project.
Implementation occurred however, under the tenure of three different Ministers, each introducing different
priorities. Ministerial support was positive amongst all three Ministers, but ministerial engagement with
the minutiae of implementation, frequently delayed decision making and retarded progress.               While
commitment was high at the political level, this did not translate in meeting commitments to build capacity



                                                      - 17 -

at the institutional level, which was a fundamental principle upon which the project was based. As part of
the project design, GOL undertook to engage 18 additional staff members from the point of project
inception. These staff members would form the core group to implement outputs from consultant TA. Up
to the date of loan closure, no new staff were engaged by the Ministry to fulfill this function. During the
latter stages of the project, DGVTE became more constructively engaged with project activities, creating a
positive environment for implementing sector reform. Progress will nevertheless be constrained by the
continuing limited capacity. Based on the foregoing, the overall government implementation performance is
rated as "unsatisfactory."

7.6 Implementing Agency:
In accordance with the project design, implementation responsibilities were assigned to MVTE with
coordination of activities being undertaken by a PIU. The PIU was established as an extension of the
Technical Support Unit created to implement the VTE components of ERRP. The PIU was initially staffed
with a Project Director, a Technical Education Officer, a Procurement Officer, and an Architect. Other
staff were added during the course of the project to fulfill specific functions. Early training was provided
to the core staff in Bank project processing procedures, and an efficient PIU office established. A Financial
Officer who was to have been appointed at the start of the project was not recruited until two years after
effectiveness, resulting in these responsibilities being undertaken by the Project Director.        Following
recruitment of the Financial Officer, the accounting software developed during project preparation with the
support of the PHRD grant was upgraded, and timely financial reports prepared. Up to the point of
restructuring, the incumbent Project Director was challenged by the political environment surrounding
implementation. This resulted in a GOL decision to change leadership. The newly appointed Director
adopted a strong result oriented approach to implementation, which enabled TA assignments central to the
project objectives to be launched and completed.          The Project Director, together with the technical
committees and DGVTE ensured that all consultant deliverables were coordinated, practical, and delivered
outputs that could be operationalized.       Within the context of an extremely difficult implementation
environment, the performance of the implementing agency is rated as "satisfactory".

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as "unsatisfactory" based upon: (i) failure to meet commitments to
staff   DGVTE      at   agreed   levels;  (ii)  failure   to   meet   effectiveness conditions    relating  to
sectoral/policy/regulatory/institutional action; and, (iii) failure to ensure an implementation environment
that included timely decision making and readiness to operationalize project outputs.

8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of this evaluation, the project provides the following key lessons:

     1. The negative social and economic impacts arising from a labour force that is growing significantly
         faster than employment in the MENA region have been well recognized. This places the issue of
         developing skills for employment high on the development agenda. It is similarly well recognized
         that investments in the VTE sector to date have achieved a comparatively low level of success on a
         worldwide basis. Common factors contributing to those VTE projects that did not achieve their
         development objective would include: (i) a strong political expansionary dynamic in the country,
         retarded by an equally strong institutional inertia. This results in the distribution of meager
         investment resources over a wider ground with little increase in external efficiency; (ii) an absence
         of, and/or inability, to recruit professionals having the range of technical, managerial, and
         leadership skills necessary to facilitate change in a multi-stakeholder environment; and (iii) the
         absence of effective mechanisms to fully engage employers as partners in the human capital



                                                     - 18 -

   development process. These facts suggest that: (i) the sector should remain a sector of focus for the
   Bank agenda for the MENA region; (ii) investments should not be made in the absence of an
   explicit and coherent policy environment; (iii) investments should clearly adopt a reform orientation
   as opposed to a development orientation with government giving specific commitments to
   implementation of a reform agenda as a pre-requisite to borrowing; (iv) investments should be
   progressive, focusing during the earlier stages on building the knowledge base to guide reforms and
   develop the institutional capacity to implement them; and (iv) channel part of the investment
   through the development of employer based institutions in order that they become effective partners
   in the reform process.

2. As noted above, the VTE sector is commonly used to serve a blend of social and economic
   objectives. In Lebanon, this is seen in objectives expressed by government at the time of project
   preparation, to expand the number of places in VTE programs from 44,000 to 100,000. This
   proposed expansion was clearly unfounded and not based on an identified labor market or
   economic demand, but primarily based on a need to absorb a growing youth population, and
   provide them with some form of employment linked skills. When designing VTE projects, the
   policy objectives should be clear in order that characteristics of the system and the design of
   programs can be articulated accordingly.

3. The VTE sector is complex, involving many internal and external stakeholders. Consequently, in
   project design there is a temptation to address all sector development issues simultaneously. This
   approach is considered inappropriate, as there is a logical hierarchy of issues that must be
   addressed sequentially as opposed to simultaneously. In the case of the VTE project, the absence of
   a sector strategy, followed by gaps in institutional capacity, coupled with the absence of knowledge
   regarding financing of the system, left other TA components with no foundation. This suggests
   that interventions in the sector should be founded on identified and prioritized strategic gaps in the
   system, long term, and progressive as opposed to attempting to "fix" the system through the lens of
   a single project.

4. The principal client for VTE graduates is the employer community. No VTE project should be
   initiated without being able to irrevocably demonstrate through the project preparation process, an
   employer community commitment to partnership. This may call for the establishment of specific
   project components to breathe life into mechanisms such as a locally relevant model of employer
   sector councils. It must however be a central theme and not a peripheral activity. While there was
   reference in the Appraisal Report to the issue of employer linkages, no resources were provided in
   the project to undertake what is an important but difficult, and frequently frustrating process.

5. The project design process should include a sector wide assessment of financial sustainability in
   order to guide the investment. The financial assessment in the VTE PAD limited its analysis to
   estimating the incremental costs associated with the VTE project alone. While it was recognized
   that other borrowing was taking place that would double the enrolment in public VTE schools,
   these incremental recurrent operating costs were not addressed. In a difficult sector such as VTE, it
   is apparent that project design should be founded on a deeper level of sector analysis.

6. The project design process should place greater emphasis on analyzing the internal characteristics
   of the implementation environment. This would include specific assessment of the range and depth
   of technical competencies, the characteristics of the regulatory framework, internal cultural
   behavior, information and decision making processes, financial resources, and prior experience in
   project implementation. The project design should subsequently include components that support
   institutional change and development from within if sustainability is to be achieved.

7. More rigorous management processes should be adopted by the Bank to guarantee that peer review


                                                - 19 -

         comments are substantially addressed in project design. While the regional management team
         responded to the QAG review, no action was taken to undertake additional work on the ground that
         would validate the original design or indicate areas for revision. A negative QAG review on quality
         at entry should trigger a mandatory series of actions to address issues raised.

    8. The benefits of project monitoring and support from the regional field office should not be
         underestimated. The availability of the TTL in the field to provide guidance at the ministerial
         level, resolve differences at the institutional level, or provide technical advice at the operational
         level enabled valuable outputs from a troubled project to be captured and sustained.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.       Introduction

The World Bank funded Vocational and Technical Education Project was approved by the Bank Board of
Directors in January 1998. A Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was issued on the 27th of Feb 1998 with
a designated date of loan effectiveness of July 1998, and closing date of 31st of December 2003.

Following completion of loan negotiations, significant delays were experienced in approving the Loan
Agreement. The loan was finally endorsed by the Lebanese parliament in April 1999 with the project being
declared effective on the 3rd of June 1999. This comprised an 11-month delay from the anticipated start
date, effectively reducing the life cycle of the project from 5 years to 4 years.

The initial value of the loan was US$63 million, and the total project value US$68.87 million. Since
declaring the project effective in June 1999, the project experienced major challenges due to factors that are
summarized below:

Assumptions: The project design was based on the following assumptions:
1. The decree that established the Ministry of Vocational and Technical Education would be implemented
    in terms of staffing with the approved complement of 269 staff. This proved not to be the case.
2. No activities other than the WB project would be implemented during the life cycle of the project.
    Consequently, no assessment was made regarding expansion of the VTE system attributable to other
    activities, and that any further development of the system would be based on outcomes from the VTE
    project. In fact, rapid expansion of the system took place based on resources provided by other donors,
    without any development plan being in place.
3. The project would conclude within 5 years and that a follow on project would be designed based on
    results achieved.
4. The existing staff at DGVTE coupled with those of the PIU, and some assistance from CDR would be
    sufficient to guarantee successful implementation of the project components.
5. The absorptive capacity of DGVTE would be adequate to achieve the project outcomes.
6. A receptive environment for change and development was in place.
7. Political and social stability would be maintained.

All subsequent experience indicates that most of the foregoing assumptions were neither well-researched,
nor based on solid government commitment. Based on the foregoing, it is apparent that the project
objectives as designed were unachievable. Additional detail is provided later in the document.

Efforts to implement project activities between June 1999 and June 2001 proved to be extremely difficult.
Difficulties occurred at all fronts. On the one hand, the World Bank changed the supervision team from



                                                      - 20 -

those who originally designed the project. This resulted in a lengthy debate about the quality of the project
design and the project objectives. Changes arising resulted in revising the work plan and re-identifying
priorities many times. On the other hand, the ministry had difficulty in supporting the PIU to launch project
activities. In October 2000 there was a change of cabinet and resultant change in Minister, putting all
activities on hold for several months. In June 2001 the project objectives were again reviewed and the loan
was downsized from US$63 to US$29 million, leaving enough funds to carry out a number of key
activities. At this time, the PIU was also restructured. In view of the foregoing, it is considered that the
project effectively commenced in June 2001.

Following loan downsizing, the PIU tried to build a comprehensive implementation plan. This proved to be
difficult as many of the project activities are closely related, with some being pre-requisites to others. It was
acknowledged at that stage that the project objectives could not be achieved within the remaining duration
of the project.

Basis for the ICR.
In order to provide a relevant assessment of the results achieved by the project, it is necessary to establish a
consistent baseline and timeline. Recognizing the challenges identified in the foregoing paragraphs, what
was the actual life of this project? Five years, four years or two years? What do we measure the
performance against? Bank procedures for the preparation of the ICR require the evaluation to be
undertaken against the original objectives and project timeline shown in the PAD. This is inconsistent with
the Aide Memoire issued following the World Bank Mid Term Review Mission of Sept. 30th- Oct. 4th
2002 where it is identified that "Having reached an impasse in mid -2001, the project was restructured
and downsized. Consequently any assessment of progress should be made from the point of
restructuring"

Despite the above statement and despite the fact that the project was upgraded to satisfactory in Dec 2001,
and despite the fact that all following supervision missions acknowledged the progress of project activities
and the high quality of deliverables, a sudden change in bank policy during June 2003 resulted in a decision
to close the loan in December 2003. The assessment in this report is therefore based on the revised
objectives and the duration of the implementation period.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objectives
The Feb 27, 1998 PAD indicates that the objectives of the CAS would be to support:
     (a) rehabilitation and expansion of infrastructure and institutional development;
     (b) environmentally sustainable development; and
     (c) upgrading the human resource base and addressing poverty.

The PAD further identifies that the project would help achieve the goals of the CAS with respect to
objective (a) and (c). Specifically:
With respect to objective (a), the Project would assist in:
    l Rehabilitating and expanding existing public VTE schools to maximize their efficiency and
         potential.
    l Building administrative capacity in MVTE.
    l Increasing managerial autonomy of public VTE schools.
    l Addressing financial sustainability issues and exploring appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.
    l Improving VTE linkages and cooperation with the private sector through improved representation
         of the private sector in advisory bodies such as the Higher Council for Vocational and Technical
         Education (HCVTE) and the School Boards. The public/private pilot with the "Model Schools"


                                                      - 21 -

         would be expected to be responsive to the needs of particular sectors with growth potential.

With respect to CAS objective (c), the Project would assist in:
    l Developing a policy for VTE within a broader Human Resources Development framework in
         cooperation with the ministries of general and higher education
    l Defining the roles of the public and private sectors with respect to training, and encouraging the
         private sector to provide quality training in areas where it has a comparative advantage through
         improved regulation and accreditation procedures.
    l Addressing poverty issues by expanding VTE access which is affordable by economically
         disadvantaged groups.
    l Meeting current and expected labor demand by expanding access to VTE and improving its
         relevance, responsiveness and quality.

Under normal circumstances and in a country that has a functional VTE system, the above indicated project
objectives may be considered achievable. During project preparation however the policy objectives and
structure of the Lebanese VTE system had not been clearly established. The old pre-war system was still in
place. 15 years had passed without any modification or development. Experience has shown that it was a
fundamental mistake to build on the dysfunctional system that was in place at the time of project
preparation as opposed to engaging in basic system reform.

Another major hurdle to project implementation is that no prior consideration was given to the legislative
and regulatory environment. Legislation should have preceded implementation as the achievement many
objectives required legislative and government support in order to effect implementation. The project design
left this issue to be addressed during implementation. Recognizing the period of time required to develop
legislation and approve the associated regulations, the absence of prior consideration proved to be another
fundamental error. As examples, it is hard to build required capacity at DGVTE before changing the laws
of the civil service board or to establish an information technology unit before legislating it into the existing
ministry structure. Bearing in mind the foregoing, it is apparent that the project objectives that were
expected to be achieved during the intended five- year duration were over-ambitious and unachievable.

3.2 Revised Objectives
In light of those implementation experiences that identified the non-achievability of the original project
objectives, the Bank team who took over project supervision following restructuring in 2001, established a
reasonable set of revised project objectives. In summary the results to be achieved from the restructured
project were expected to be as follows:
1. VTE policy environment improved
2. VTE system management and planning improved
3. VTE system program profile, operating procedures, and physical assets are realigned with labor market
    requirements.

3.3 Original Components
Project components as outlined in the original PAD included:

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building (US$10.01 million)
     (a) Strengthening Management & Efficiency of the VTE System
         (i) Strengthening MVTE Planning & Monitoring
         (ii) MVTE Quality & Management Procedures
         (iii) MVTE Information System
         (iv) Marketing Research & Surveys


                                                     - 22 -

        (v) Strengthening School-Based Management
    (b) Developing VTE policies
        (i) MVTE Strategy Development.
        (ii) Study Visits
        (iii) Regulatory & Legal Framework
    (c) VTE Image Improvement
    (d) Project Implementation Unit

Component 2. Improvement of Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training (US$17.12
million)
    (a) Addressing Current and Expected Training Demand
        (i) Methodology
        (ii) Needs Assessment
        (iii) School Boards.
    (b) Developing Quality Standards
    (c) Developing Modern Curricula
        (i) Pre-Service New Fields Retraining
        (ii) In-Service Training
        (iii) Entrepreneurship Training
        (iv) Examinations Development (and automation).
        (v) Teacher Guides and Student Manuals Production
    (d) Improving Pre- and In-Service Training of Teachers
        (i) Training of Trainers for Pre-Service Programs
        (ii) Training of Trainers for Retraining Programs
        (iii) Training of Trainers for In-Service Training
        (iv) Training of Trainers for Entrepreneurship Training
        (v) Upgrading of Existing VTE Teachers

Component 3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement (US$41.74 million)
    (a) Expansion & Retrofitting of Existing Schools
    (b) Development of New Model Schools
        (i) Feasibility Studies & Needs Assessment of Key Sectors
             1- Feasibility Studies & Needs Assessment of Key Sectors
             2- Creation of Four New "Model schools"

Total Loan Value: US$63 million

3.4 Revised Components
Following restructuring, the project components included the following:

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building (US$2.6 million)
    (a) Strengthening Management & Efficiency of the VTE System
        (i) Strengthening MVTE Planning & Monitoring
        (ii) MVTE Information System.
    (b) Developing VTE policies
        (i) MVTE Strategy Development.
    (c) Project Implementation Unit

Component 2.       Improvement of Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training (US$7.49


                                                    - 23 -

million)
    (a) Addressing Current and Expected Training Demand
         (i) Needs Assessment
    (b) Developing Modern Curricula
         (i) Examinations Development and Automation.
    (c) Improving Pre- and In-Service Training of Teachers
         (i) Upgrading of Existing VTE Teachers

Component 3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement (US$21 million)
    (a) Expansion & Retrofitting of Existing Schools
         (i) Conduct School Surveys
         (ii) Rehabilitate existing Schools
         (iii) Expand Existing schools
         (iv) Conduct equipment Surveys
         (v) Equip Existing schools

Total Loan Value: US$29 million

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective
The following outcomes were achieved based on the revised project objectives:
1. VTE policy environment improved: A strategy framework was developed through a rigorous and
    systematic process. Policy development activities were initiated. The ministry adopted the strategy
    framework.
2. VTE system management and planning improved: A framework, operational procedures and mandate
    for a planning monitoring and evaluation unit was developed. The ministry did not fulfill its obligations
    and supply the required staff and resources to undertake the VTE planning and management activities
    as designed.
3. VTE system program profile, operating procedures, and physical assets are realigned with labor
    market requirements. Necessary studies to align the system with labor market were conducted,
    physical assets were identified, needs were determined, new systems for asset management and
    responsiveness were developed. Further analysis of outcomes remains to be done prior to undertaking
    required adjustments to the program profile.

Significant progress was made in moving towards achievement of the revised project objectives. Time
however was the decisive factor, leading to incompletion of some of the activities which were under
implementation at the time of closure. It is again repeated that effective implementation occurred during the
period June 2001 (following restructuring) and June 2003. Thus, measuring the outcome/achievement for a
5-year project over a 2 years period is not logical, and does not represent a balanced assessment of progress
made during the foreshortened implementation period. It is the view of the government that, given one more
year, the revised objectives would have been achieved.

4.2 Output by Components

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building (US$2.62 million)

Strengthening MVTE Planning & Monitoring: Recognizing the importance of this activity in increasing
DGVTE capacity, an RFP to contract a TA provider was launched in November 1999. Procurement
procedures up to the point of contract signature were completed by October 2000 when a new government


                                                     - 24 -

came into office. Following a review, the newly appointed minister decided to re-launch the activity. The
Bank, despite the inevitable and significant delay to the project approved this decision. The activity was
launched again during 2001, with a contract being awarded on the 21st of March 2002.

During the course of implementing the technical assistance activity, the sensitivity of the issues raised,
including changing management procedures at DGVTE and bringing in new staff caused extensive delays.
These delays were attributable to the legal issues that needed to be resolved before drafting a framework
and a mandate. A draft final report was submitted and accepted in May 2003. The GOL did not however
meet its obligations through legislating, resourcing and staffing the unit. Although the required study was
essentially completed, the outcome was not in line with the development objectives.

MVTE Information System: A call for proposals to develop the characteristics of a MIS for VTE was
initially launched in 2001. Progress was seriously delayed due to the poor quality of proposals received and
to the extended evaluation procedures undertaken by the technical committee appointed by the ministry.

During the April 2002 Bank mission, lengthy discussions took place with the bank team on how to proceed
with the activity. The VTE PIU requested integrating the GEP and the VTE-MIS as one activity, the bank
team did not accept this proposal and recommended moving ahead with the VTE information system as
originally proposed. Despite the dissatisfaction of the ministry team with this decision, the activity was
launched and a contract signed on the 4th of Dec 2002 for the design phase. This work was completed in
October 2003. During the June 2003 mission, the bank requested that the VTE and GEP IS systems be
integrated into a single system due to potential duplication of the sub-systems. This approach was adopted
after restructuring the GEP loan and is now in process. It was finally recognized by all parties that it is
essential to have a single information system for all education. Despite the excellent outcome from phase 1,
the activity is incomplete, due to closure of the loan.

MVTE Strategy Development: Developing a sector strategy was considered to be the key activity for
successful implementation of all other project components. The activity was first launched in Nov. 1999 as
a part of a package containing strategy, tracer surveys, market survey and competency needs assessment.
Developing the strategy was determined to be a pre-requisite to conducting other studies. The procurement
process was completed up to the point of contract but again was cancelled in October 2000 by the newly
appointed Minister. A review by the bank team in 2001 during project restructuring, recommended
separating the strategy activity from the integrated TA package, resulting in a decision to launch it as a
separate study. Prior to launching the RFP, the bank team requested that the ministry prepare a macro-level
strategy framework for the VTE sector that would guide and inform the work of the selected consultants.
MEHE subsequently developed the requested strategy framework through a systematic sector wide process
involving all stakeholders. This framework was then ratified by the Council of Ministers. A second call for
proposals was launched in 2002. A contract was awarded on 21st of July 2003 following many delays
arising from the work of ministry committees. The inception phase of the activity including a mechanism
for integrating GE & VTE strategies was completed. The activity is now to be completed under the GE
restructured project.

Project Implementation Unit: The project implementation unit was appointed early 2000 after delays by
the ministry in processing the contracts for no objection, and resolving some conceptual issues regarding the
project design with the bank. The initial PIU staff included a project director, a VTE specialist, a
procurement officer and an architect. The financial officer position was not filled until late 2001.

Following project restructuring, the PIU was restructured and the VTE expert became the project director.
This change gave a momentum to the implementation of the project. Having the required technical and


                                                     - 25 -

managerial skills, the new project director contributed effectively to the implementation of the project
activities. A results based approach was adopted and the activities were progressively implemented. This
was not sufficient to maintain time schedules and ensure successful implementation. Although Bank
supervision missions frequently documented redundancies in the PIU, no action was taken by the ministry.
The procurement officer and the newly recruited VTE specialist could not fulfill their duties successfully
and did not have the skills to contribute to the project management team, the Project Architect was not
available most of the time.

In this situation, the project director had to do the work of the procurement officer, the VTE expert,
contribute to the duties of all technical committees and coordinate project activities. In addition, and in an
environment where tremendous political pressure exists, the project director had to ensure that all activities
are on track and in line with project objectives. Subsequently, the principal source of support came from 4
dedicated project staff who were recruited to support DGVTE and a professional financial officer.

Added to the above dilemma, it was agreed between the bank and the ministry to build the capacity of the
DGVTE through recruiting 14 Professional Support Staff who would be financed by the loan. 11 staff were
recruited and a coordinator appointed. The coordinator did not provide the required level of leadership, and
most of the recruits failed to perform their duties. Despite the limited resources, the PIU still performed its
duties satisfactorily.

Component 2.        Improvement of Relevance, Responsiveness and Quality of Training                 (US$7.49
million)

Needs Assessment: As previously identified, this activity was initially launched in 1999 and subsequently
re-launched in 2001 due to change of government. A contract was awarded on the 12th of December 2002.
The activity produced a comprehensive series of tracer surveys, a labor market survey, and occupational
competency profiles. The activity was in progress at the time of loan closure currently in its final phase and
expected to conclude within the next few months. Output from this activity includes a tremendous bank of
data regarding tracing VTE graduates, market analysis and competency analysis. In order to capture the
value of this data, immediate analysis of the policy options needs to be undertaken and associated changes
made to the training program framework. This work would have been undertaken by the PIU and DGVTE
if the project had not been prematurely closed. It is now proposed that the newly established Development
and Planning Unit will work with the findings of the study and propose corrective scenarios. The DMU will
develop plans designed to integrate all VTE development projects based on the outcome of the needs
assessment study. Although the activity was not fully complete at the time of closing the loan, the outputs
and results to date are positive.

Examination Development and Automation: A contract to establish an automated examinations system
for electronics (Pilot Study) was awarded on the 29th of March 2002. The system was designed and a
teacher's manual for all electronics courses together with a comprehensive set of examination questions for
both BT and TS levels. The system was tested and proved successful. The activity was completed by the
end of 2003, with a review mission for the consultant scheduled for June 2004. Under the restructured
project the successful pilot was to be extended to other specializations. The PIU prepared the terms of
reference and the list of specializations to be included in the comprehensive study. The time frame of the
project did not allow launching this activity although the system is in place and functional.

Upgrading of Existing VTE Teachers: Two activities were scheduled under this title: ICT training and
specialized training. The activities were launched in July 2003, expressions of interest were received, and
terms of reference were prepared. The bank requested putting the activities on hold as the loan is closing.


                                                     - 26 -

They will be financed from the GE project.

Component 3. Delivery Mechanisms Improvement (US$21 million)

Conduct School Surveys: A school survey of 30 existing schools was conducted during the year 2000,
BOQs were prepared and sent to CDR for execution.

Rehabilitate existing Schools: Contracts were awarded through CDR. 80% of the works were completed
before loan closing date. Some works are still in process. It is noted that the designated executing agency,
CDR, delayed the launch and implementation of all civil works related to project activities. CDR did have
at the time or the capacity to mange and monitor the implementation of the required works. Hence major
delays were witnessed and major problems with contracted companies are still to be resolved.

Expand Existing schools: Following the completion of the school surveys in 2000, terms of reference to
expand 9 existing schools were sent to CDR to take the necessary actions, despite the many
recommendations by bank teams and the many commitments by CDR management and the rigorous follow
up from the PIU, no action was taken by CDR to fulfill their obligations.

Conduct Equipment Surveys: The PIU launched this Technical Assistance activity in 2001. The outcome
was: a comprehensive curricula review to guide the development of a database for required laboratories,
tools and equipment for all specializations; a survey of existing equipment; and, preparation of a list of
essential equipment for immediate procurement. The database is supported by management software
capable of producing instant bank bidding documents and specifications. The software also houses an asset
management system. Training on using the system was conducted. The system is currently functional.

Equip Existing Schools: In line with the newly structured project, the PIU prepared in 2000, bidding
documents for 5 specializations of an estimated value of US$7.5 million. The PIU sent the documents to
DGVTE, specifications were modified and forwarded to CDR. CDR launched a bidding process in which
three vendors were selected as a short list. While evaluating the proposals, one of the proposals contained
78 deviations from the original specs, after a long debate between CDR and vendors , the ministry
requested a re-bid as specifications need modification since they were prepared 2 years earlier and bids are
non-compliant. CDR agreed to launch a re-bid. In this regard, CDR referred the matter to the bank in
January 2002. The bank recommended that CDR seek clarification from the lowest price bidder and check
technical deviations against the essential functional aspects of the equipment rather than applying a literal
interpretation of the specifications. While CDR pursued clarification, this resulted in another 8-month
delay. Finally the bank recommended canceling the process and go for a re-bid .

New specifications were prepared by DGVTE and forwarded to CDR, although validation of specs is
beyond their CDR mandate, CDR, with bank approval recruited a consultant to review the new specs. This
process consumed more than one year and as a result, the remaining time for the procurement process was
beyond the project life cycle and the bid was never launched.

4.3 Institutional Development Impact
The main achievement of the project was to create awareness and understanding of the importance of
change and development for VTE in Lebanon. At the early stages of the project, it was difficult to talk
about change. New thinking was totally rejected by the existing administration. Continuous contact and
discussion between ministry staff on one side, and of PIU, recruited consultants and bank teams on the
other side, resulted in substantial change of attitude towards achieving project objectives. The DGVTE now
is claiming ownership of all project activities and has demonstrated a willingness to adopt changes arising


                                                      - 27 -

from project outcomes. Many new sets of skills were introduced to existing DGVTE staff through their
contribution to implementation or through training. It is important to maintain the momentum of the project
activities to achieve maximum attitude and environmental changes.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
As mentioned previously, the major factors which affected achieving timely and successful implementation
can be summarized as follows:
1. Over ambitious objectives compared to available resources.
2. Uncertainties in bank position which accompanied implementation until the restructuring of the project
    in 2001.
3. Unstable political environment.
4. Lengthy Bank and Ministerial Procedures.
5. Robust VTE management prior to restructuring.
6. Unjustified cancellation of some major activities; ministry cancelled, bank approved, results: launch
    again and delays.
7. Placing the bulk of project funds under CDR which failed to disperse any serious money over 5 years.
8. PIU was not equipped with the necessary skills and personnel.

6. Sustainability
Despite all the confusion which accompanied the project cycle, the last two years proved very fruitful.
Valuable deliverables started to surface. The project was eventually on the right track. Cooperation with
stakeholders started to show results and acknowledgement of the need to change was reached at all levels.
However, the sudden closing of the loan will leave a negative impact on all stakeholders, there was no time
to study the results and set up sustainability mechanisms. Despite those facts, given the right measure of
support, sustainability is achievable at this stage.

6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating
While sustainability would be questionable due to early closing of the loan, the bank and the ministry
reached some effective arrangements that support potential sustainability of project momentum and results.
Those arrangements are summarized as follows:
1. The completion of some project activities through financing them from the general education loan, and
2. The creation of a Development and Planning Unit (DPU) for VTE, financed under the EDP. Although
    these arrangements guarantee continuity of project cycle and sustainability of processes and
    development, further support will need to be provided. The role of the newly developed unit which will
    guarantee sustainability of project outcomes and carry out the development process need to be properly
    defined. Resources for professional technical assistance should be made available from bank financing
    so that the unit can establish sustainability mechanisms and benefit from the deliverables of the project
    in real time.

6.2 Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
One of the objectives of the project was to transfer knowledge to the ministry and DGVTE. This objective
was achieved partially over the 2 effective years of implementation. Again, the early closure of the loan
caught the ministry off guard while transition of activities to normal operations is still in its early stages.
There is much to be done in that regard and the DPU has the role of building the transition blocks to ensure
transition of project experiences to the ministry. The building process will just start and again supporting
the DPU remains a key factor in achieving sustainability and a smooth transition of experience and benefits
to regular operations.




                                                     - 28 -

7. Bank and Borrower's Performance
Inconsistency by the Bank and the Lebanese Government during the early phases of implementation of this
project can be acknowledged through a review the Aide Memoires associated with this project. Many
alterations in the implementation plan and some unjustified changes of priorities affected the
implementation of project activities. Both parties were not conclusive in their choices and internal issues at
bank and ministry levels had negative impact on project progress.

7.1 Bank
Despite the available financial resources through the PHRD Grant while preparing this project, the project
preparation team adopted a theoretical approach and conducted minimal situational analysis while ignoring
the required legal framework, which is essential to the successful implementation of the project. The bank
even bypassed a rated unsatisfactory QAG report.

The issue of the extremely magnified size of TA components in the project design was addressed by many
local experts. The designers assumed that this project is the strategy for VTE, and contains a
comprehensive development plan. There was an arrogant approach resulting in major faults in project
design and objectives. This can be seen the PAD Design Summary where indicators do not reflect
objectives nor the natural VTE development through other fund sources and government finances. The
project design did not align objectives with ministry development work plans, which at some stages resulted
in conflict between the various projects.

While acknowledging the scope of this project and the available resources, no action was taken by the bank
between 1999 and June 2001 to remedy the situation. Following the reconstruction in 2001, the bank
provided the necessary TA and assisted in taking some positive actions to activate the PIU and build
capacity at DGVTE, this came a bit late and efforts were not good enough to revive the project to be
completed on time. Recently, and between June and October 2003, there were 2 bank missions during
which a positive attitude was adopted and recommendations to extend the duration of the project were
made. At this time a newly restructured project with clear development objectives was reached. In January,
the bank decided to close the loan despite the June and October recommendations to extend the loan closing
date, and despite the progress which was demonstrably being achieved. The position of the bank remains
unsubstantiated despite all the evidence provided by them; considering the fact that a one-year extension
would have been enough to complete the restructured activities.

Finally, the pad included a paragraph titled "Value added of Bank support" reads as follows:
"Bank involvement will improve outcomes by catalyzing lessons of international experience, improving
efficiency and providing strategic direction to the sector. In addition Bank participation will ensure the
following opportunities are not missed: a- improving sectorial coordination, b- Exploring financing
mechanisms with emphasis on sustainability, c- Improving women's participation in the labor market and
d- encouraging the active involvement of the private sector." None of the quoted actions were undertaken
by the bank during the project cycle.

7.2 Borrower
Serious intervention of the different government agencies during the cycle of this project came only during
crisis periods, specifically when the loan was about to be closed. Delays in endorsing the loan agreement in
the parliament resulted in delaying implementation by one year. Building capacity at DGVTE to ensure
smooth implementation was not fulfilled due to existing employment regulations. Coordination between the
various executing agencies was minimal. The executing agencies involved in the implementation are CDR,
DGVTE, the PIU and the MEHE. Their performance can be described as follows:




                                                    - 29 -

CDR
In charge of a US$41 million loan component, CDR managed to disburse approximately US$3 million from
project funds over 4.5 years. Although a matrix of responsibilities was reached many times, including a
memorandum of understanding signed between CDR, the Ministry and the bank following restructuring in
2001, CDR was unable to fulfill its role due to shortage of staff and complicated administrative procedures.



DGVTE
At the early stages of the project DGVTE had only 32 employees, 16 of them administrators and the
remainder support staff (typists, drivers, etc.). DGVTE did not have the capacity or the resources to
support the project. On the other hand, the project design did not include any clear role for DGVTE or the
Director General. In the absence of this role, DGVTE showed little cooperation at the early stages of
implementation. Following restructuring, some DGVTE staff and some school directors and teachers
became closely involved in project activities. The newly appointed Director General showed a great interest
in project activities and brought DGVTE to be a real partner in project implementation. DGVTE staff
contributed to all technical committee activities, attended training, followed up all activities and facilitated
the work of the consultants when possible. The shortage in human resources played a major role in keeping
limited contribution of DGVTE to project activities.

The PIU
The PIU role was described above.

MEHE
According to project design, the Minister holds the authority on implementation of the project activities.
The project was managed by four consecutive ministers. Various visions of the ministers affected the
progress of the project. While between 1998 and 2000 the project did not achieve any progress. The project
gained momentum between 2001 and 2003. Under the current administration the project momentum was
maintained and continuity was provided to all project activities. The current administration is very keen on
following up project activities, completing the project cycle and developing VTE accordingly.

8. Lessons Learned
The first lesson learnt is never to start a project without a comprehensive research, and an achievable work
plan spread over a suitable period of time. Secondly, bank and government should make sure that the
required levels of human resources are available to achieve the specified development objectives. Money
and activities are not the major factors in project implementation, sustaining project deliverables and
benefiting from them is the major factor. Sound implementation may require applying international
procedures and standards. When applying such measures, accountability is easily achieved and progress
will be guaranteed.

Some other useful operational lessons were learned and can be summarized as follows:
1. The PIU model should be developed further and PIUs or PMUs should be given a greater role in project
    implementation to reduce the bureaucracy of the public sector and ensure achieving schedules and
    timeframes. Regular and rigorous monitoring of PIU performance should be conducted by the Ministry
    and the Bank to ensure transparency and effectiveness of procedures.
2. As governments frequently change more than three times during the life cycle of a project, an effective
    system which guarantees continuity and flow of project implementation should be adopted. Roles and
    responsibilities should be identified and continuity guaranteed.
3. A time frame should be set for each activity incorporating expected delays. A pessimistic time line
    should be developed for project implementation.


                                                      - 30 -

The project should have been phased out into two stages:

Phase 1: Preparing the ground for a successful implementation through:
1. Identifying needed DGVTE and Ministry staff for project implementation
2. Drafting and obtaining laws and decrees to guarantee successful implementation and continuity of
    project implementation.
3. Recruiting staff as needed and leave the door open for recruitment as need arises.
4. Publishing the objectives of the project at national level involving all stakeholders and assessing the
    achievability of those objectives and identifying potential problems.
5. Adjusting objectives in the light of the above.
6. Identifying the roles and responsibilities supported with milestones and accountabilities of the various
    implementation agencies.
7. Designing activities in line with a VTE developed strategy.

Phase 2:
1. Implementing the project as designed within the receptive environment created in Phase 1.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
VTE policy environment improved:
* Mechanisms for continuous dialogue with                                 40 employer based DACUM committees in
the productive sector are in place.                                       place and occupational analysis completed
* A VTE policy framework, collaboratively                                 Strategy Framework ratified by Council of
developed and ratified by the Council of                                  Ministers 2003.
Ministers, is in place.
* A VTE Strategic Plan is being implemented                               Preparation of VTE Strategic Development
                                                                          Plan in progress. Completion expected Sept.
                                                                          2004.
VTE system planning and management
capacity improved:
* PM&E TA output accepted and agreed with                                 TA describing structure, function and
MEHE                                                                      operating procedures for PM&E completed
                                                                          and accepted.
* DGVTE has established and staffed a                                     Ministerial approval for establishment of
PPM&E unit.                                                               PM&E unit granted Feb. 2004. Staffing
                                                                          currently in progress.
* PM&E unit develops and monitors an                                      Not yet initiated.
annual system wide development plan.

VTE system program profile, operating
procedures, and physical assets are
realigned with labor market requirements:
* DGVTE process is in place for continuous                                Curriculum committees established and
program review                                                            review process documented
* Curriculum outlines have been revised in                                Not yet initiated
accordance with needs assessment study
output.
* Equipment lists linked to learning outcomes                             Complete for all training centers and all
are in place                                                              programs
* Teaching staff have been upgraded to                                    Not yet initiated. Training to be undertaken by
deliver revised programs.                                                 Education Development Project




Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
DGVTE planning capacity strengthened:
* PM&E TA recommendations accepted by                                     PM&E TA recommendations accepted.
MEHE
* PM&E unit staffed with personnel trained                                Establishment of VTE Development and
through the PSU.                                                          Planning Unit in progress.
* Planning procedures developed and                                       Procedures developed but not yet
operational.                                                              operational.


VEMIS developed and operational :
* VEMIS design consultant report accepted.                                VEMIS TA report accepted -Jan. 2004
* Hardware and software procured, installed                               Bid Documents for integrated EMIS under
and commissioned.                                                         preparation.
* VEMIS unit staff recruited and trained.                                 Staff TOR's developed. Recruitment being
* Information products as per system design                               initiated.
being generated and incorporated into                                     Awaiting system procurement and
system management operations                                              commissioning
VTE Strategic Development Plan developed:                                 Consultant Inception Report accepted. Work
* Consultant report accepted.                                             to be completed by September 2004 under
                                                                          the Education Development Project
Needs Assessment study complete and VTE
Program Framework modified accordingly:
* Consultant report accepted.




                                                       - 32 -

* Labor market profiled.                                    Consultant report accepted Jan. 2004
* VTE system program profile adjusted.                      Labor market needs assessment complete
                                                            Required program adjustments to be
                                                            addressed by newly established Development
                                                            and Planning Unit
Tracer study complete:
* Consultant report accepted.                               Tracer study report complete and accepted
                                                            --- 2003
* Undertaking tracer studies incorporated into              Not yet initiated
ongoing DGVTE operations.


Curriculum and associated evaluation
methodologies aligned with needs
assessment output:
* Revised curriculum outlines are in place                  Not yet initiated
* Examinations database is complete and                     Pilot examinations database complete and
operational.                                                tested. Expansion to be undertaken through
                                                            the Education Development Project.
Equipment purchased to develop specified
student/graduate competencies:
* Equipment procurement lists have been                     Equipment needs analysis and preparation of
filled.                                                     technical specifications complete for all
                                                            training centers and all specializations.
                                                            Essential equipment requirements to be
                                                            procured under the Education Development
                                                            Project.
* Curriculum learning outcomes have been                    Review of learning outcomes for all subjects
specified.                                                  completed prior to determining equipment
                                                            requirements.
VTE instructional staff upgraded:                           TOR in place. Training to be undertaken
Staff training objectives have been met.                    through the Education Development Project.


Emergency rehabilitation work completed :                   All work complete as specified.
Rehabilitation work has been completed as
specified.


VTE school capacity expanded:                               Capacity expansion dropped from the project
Approx 6000 sq. m. of additional instructional              due to building of new training centers
space has been added to meet regional                       funded by other donors
requirements

1 End of project




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Appraisal    Restructuring Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                    Estimate      estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                   Component                      US$ million    US$ million   US$ million

Institutional strengthening & capacity building       8.41          5.847        5.847         100%
Relevance, responsiveness and quality of training    14.87          1.912        1.912         100%
improvement
Delivery mechanism improvement                       34.79          21.6         21.6          100%

Unallocated                                                           2            2           100%

Total Baseline Cost                                  58.07          31.36        31.36         100%

Physical contingencies                                4.59            0            0           100%

Price contingencies                                   6.22            0            0           100%

                              Total Project Costs    68.88          31.36        31.36         100%

         Total Financing Required                    68.88          31.36          31.36       100%



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement   Method1
      Expenditure Category                 ICB           NCB          Other2      N.B.F.     Total Cost

 1. Works                                  0.00           6.0          0.00        0.00          6.0
                                          (0.00)         (4.8)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (4.8)

 2. Goods                                  0.00          15.15         0.00        0.00        15.15
                                          (0.00)        (14.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (14.00)

 4. Consultancy C1a & C.1b                 0.00          0.00          0.45        0.00         0.45
                                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.45)      (0.00)       (0.45)
 5. Consultancy other part                 0.00          0.00          7.65        0.00         7.65
                                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.65)      (0.00)       (7.65)
6. Project Management                      0.00          0.00          0.11        0.00         0.11
                                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.10)      (0.00)       (0.10)

7. Unallocated                             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00         2.0
                                          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (2.0)

   Total                                   0.00          21.15         8.21        0.00        31.36
                                          (0.00)        (18.8)        (8.2)       (0.00)       (29.0)




                                                  - 34 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Procurement          Method1
        Expenditure Category                      ICB                NCB               Other2              N.B.F.       Total Cost

  1. Works                                        0.00                6.0                0.00               0.00           6.0
                                                 (0.00)              (4.8)              (0.00)             (0.00)         (4.8)

 2. Goods                                         0.00               15.15               0.00               0.00          15.15
                                                 (0.00)            (14.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)        (14.00)

 4. Consultancy C1a & C.1b                        0.00               0.00                0.45               0.00           0.45
                                                 (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.45)             (0.00)         (0.45)
 5. Consultancy other part                        0.00               0.00                7.65               0.00           7.65
                                                 (0.00)             (0.00)              (7.65)             (0.00)         (7.65)
 6. Project Management                            0.00               0.00                0.11               0.00           0.11
                                                 (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.10)             (0.00)         (0.10)

 7. Unallocated                                   0.00               0.00                0.00               0.00           2.0
                                                 (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)         (2.0)
        Total                                     0.00               21.15               8.21               0.00          31.36
                                                 (0.00)             (18.8)               (8.2)             (0.00)         (29.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
  services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
  services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)
  re-lending project funds to local government units.


Total Disbursements by Category
     Expenditure Category             Actual/Latest Estimate               Actual Disbursed             Percentage of Disbursements
                                     Bank      Govt.       Total      Bank       Govt.        Total       Bank    Govt.      Total.
   1.Civil Works                      4.8        1.2         6.0      1.704       .426        2.130       35.5%   35.5%      35.%
 2.Goods                             14.0       1.15        15.15      .446       .078          .52        3%     6.7%       3.4%
 4.Consultancy A                      .45        0.0         .45       .091        0.0         .091        20%     0.0       20%
 5.Consuting Services B              7.65        0.0        7.65      2.985        0.0        2.985        39%     0.0       39%
 6. Project Management                 .1        .01         .11       .059       .045         .064        59%    45%        58%
 7.Unallocated                        2.0        0.0         2.0        0.0        0.0          0.0
 Total                               29.0       2.36        31.36      5.29        .55         5.84        18%    23.3%    18.65%




                                                             - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              04/29/1997

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/03/1997
              01/12/1998

 Supervision

              10/25/1999                3    ECONOMIST (2);                   U               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              05/22/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             TRAINING SPEC. (1);
                                             TRAINING&CURRICUL.SPEC
                                             (1)
              07/07/2000                2    TASK LEADER (1);                 U               U
                                             IMPLEMENTATION (1)
              04/06/2001                4    INFO OFFICER-T. LEADER           U               U
                                             (1); VTE SPECIALIST (CONS)
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN. MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/07/2001                4    TTL (1); VTE SPECIALIST          S               S
                                             (CONS) (1); PROC.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/19/2002                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             INFORMATION OFFICER (1);
                                             VOCATIONAL EDUCATION S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT S (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2)
              03/14/2003                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FIN. MANAG.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INFORMATION OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2)
              06/27/2003                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALISTS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN.



                                              - 37 -

                                           MANAG. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           INFORMATION OFFICER (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2)
               10/17/2003              6   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           (1); SR.FIN MANAG SPEC. (1);
                                           SR.INFORMATION OFFICER
                                           (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Staff Appraisal Report, Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports
l Peer reviewer comments and minutes of Peer Review Meeting
l QAG review findings and RMT response
l World Bank-Government of Lebanon correspondence
l Lebanon - Country Assistance Strategy
l GOY TEVT Sector Strategy Framework
l Consultant TA reports
l ICRs prepared for TEVT sector projects in the MENA region including Jordan HRDSL II, and TESP




                                               - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of the 2001 Project Budget Change


                                                          Suggested New Budget (US$ million)
           Activity as per PAD            Budget as per  Total        Bank       Government
                                             PAD                  Contribution   Contribution
(1) Capacity Building
(i) Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation        0.77        0.24         0.23          0.01
(ii) Quality & Management Procedures         0.81
(iii) Information System                     0.88        1.59         1.35          0.24
(iv) Marketing, Research & Surveys           1.78
(v) School Based Management                  0.18
(vi) VTE Strategy                            0.28        0.15         0.14          0.01
(vii) Study                                  0.03
(viii) Regulatory & Legal Framework          0.22
(ix) Image Improvement                        2.7
(x) PIU                                      2.36        0.64         0.61          0.03
                                 TOTAL       10.01       2.62         2.33          0.29
(2) Relevance, Responsiveness &
Quality
(i) Methodology                              0.05
(ii) Needs Assessment Studies                1.51        1.62         1.54          0.08
(iii) School Boards                          0.09
(iv) Qaulity Standards                       1.09
(v) Modern Curricula                         2.86        0.99         0.94          0.05
(vi) Automation of Exams                     0.38        0.59         0.56          0.03
(vii) Teachers Guide & Students Manual       6.30        3.00         2.85          0.15
(viii) Training of Teachers                  4.86        1.29         1.23          0.06
                                 TOTAL       17.14       7.49         7.12          0.37
(3) Delivery Mechanisms
(i) Expansion & Retrofitting of Existing     29.00       21.00        17.55         3.45
Schools
(ii) New Model Schools                       12.74
                                 TOTAL       41.74       21.00        17.55         3.45

                             Unallocated                 2.00         2.00
                       GRAND TOTAL           68.89       33.11        29.00         4.11




                                                 - 42 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary of the 2003 Project Budget Change

CIVIL WORKS
                  Activity                  Current     Proposed            Rational
                                            Budget      Budget
Physical Rehabilitation
Survey Consultants (Completed)                   42,477    42,477
Supervision consultants (Completed)             131,000   131,000  (Completed)
Implement Rehabilitation Works (Committed)    2,214,481 2,714,481
     Delta Engineering and Construction         547,906
     Bou Ghanem Contracting Establishment       234,124
     Mohamed El Hajj Contracting                395,704
     Mohammed El Hajj Contracting               351,377
IIMAR General Contracting                       685,370
Total Rehabilitation Works                   2,256,958  2,756,958  Variation of 500,000 is
                                                                   expected
Physical Expansion Arrangements
Design & Supervision Consultants                      0         0
Implement Expansion Works                     1,598,000 2,598,000
Total Expansion Works                         1,598,000 2,598,000  Increase by 1 million due
                                                                   to increasing # of schools
                                                                   from 5 to 9
TOTAL Rehabilitation Works                   2,256,958  2,756,958
TOTAL Expansion Works                        1,598,000  2,598,000
GRAND TOTAL CIVIL WORKS                      3,854,958  5,354,958  Increased by 1.5 million



EQUIPPING ARRANGEMENTS
                  Activity                  Current     Proposed            Rational
                                            Budget      Budget
Procurement Arrangement (Electronics)        5,000,000  7,000,000  Bidding documents are
                                                                   prepared and approved by
                                                                   CDR. Increasing the # of
                                                                   items will result in covering
                                                                   more schools. Equipment
                                                                   will be delivered by mid
                                                                   2004. Allocation of
                                                                   equipment will be based on
                                                                   equipment survey results.
Equipment Needs Study (Specializations       10,046,813         0  Expected Delays in CDR
other than Electronics)
Procure Equipment and System Components       1,542,000 2,300,000 To compensate for the new 13
for the Information System (Budget)                               schools and ensure at least 10
                                                                  PCs/school in addition to
                                                                  software and other hardware.
Recruit Equipment Survey Consultant             242,298   242,298  Committed
Schools Operational Equipping Needs             349,200   349,200 Completed
(Generators)
Total Equipping Arrangements                 17,180,311 9,891,498  7,288,813 Reduction




                                             - 43 -

CAPACITY BUILDING ACTIVITIES
                   Activity                     Current     Proposed             Rational
                                                 Budget      Budget
VTE Strategy (committed)                            242,000    242,000
Planning , Monitoring & Evaluation Unit             265,974    265,974
(committed)
Information System: Management Consultant           469,568    469,568
(committed)
Total Capacity Building                             977,542    977,542

RELEVANCE, RESPONSIVENESS & QUALITY OF TRAINING
Training existing teachers & administrators         200,000    200,000
(Computer Training ) (Budget)
Training existing teachers (current curricula)      800,000  1,200,000  Increase the number of
(Budget)                                                                trained teachers in phase
                                                                        1 training by about 35%
Automation of Exams : Electronics Pilot Study       540,421    540,421
Automation of Exams : Study of Other              2,000,000  3,000,000 Increase number of
Specializations (Budget)                                               specializations covered by
                                                                       the study including teacher
                                                                       guides and exams questions
                                                                       bank covering 22-26
                                                                       specializations at BT & TS
                                                                       levels and nearly 90% of
                                                                       students.
Needs Assessment Studies (Committed)              1,866,958  1,866,958
Update existing curricula                           600,000    600,000 Updates to existing
                                                                       curricula based on the
                                                                       competency results.
Prepare Teachers Guides and Students              2,000,000          0
Manuals (Budget)
Training existing teachers (new curricula)          400,000          0 Increase the number of
(Budget)                                                               trained teachers following
                                                                       introducing new curricula
                                                                       and updating existing.
Total Relevance, Responsiveness & Quality         8,407,379  7,407,379  Reduced by 1 million
of Training                                                             and eliminated activities
                                                                        which have potential to
                                                                        run beyond mid 2005



TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES
Total Capacity Building                             977,542    977,542  Increase in IT
                                                                        procurement component
Total Relevance, Responsiveness & Quality of      8,407,379  7,407,379  Reduced by 1 million and
Training                                                                eliminated activities
                                                                        which have potential to
                                                                        run beyond mid 2005
Total Technical Assistance                        9,384,921  8,384,921  1 million Reduction




                                                 - 44 -

TOTAL PROJECT ACTIVITIES VALUE
                   Activity                       Current         Proposed             Rational
                                                   Budget          Budget
Total Technical Assistance                            9,384,921     8,384,921  1 million Reduction
Total Civil Works                                     3,854,958     5,354,985 Increase of 1.5 million
Total Equipment                                     17,180,311      9,891,498  7,288,813 REDUCTION
GRAND TOTAL                                         30,420,190    23,631,377   Total reduction of
                                                                               6,788,813



Total Extra-Activity Expenditures from 01-01-2000 until 30-6-2003 (Excluding activity contracts)
                   Activity                      WB amount      GVT amount               Total
Project Management Expenditures                       37,391.71       2731.62                  40,123.33
PIU, PSU & Miscellaneous Project consulting         822,811.04      64298.20                  887,109.24
contract
Amounts of contracts committed or paid by               391,000        69,000                    460,000
CDR for generators, office furniture and
computers.
Total Expenditures                                1,251,202.75    136,029.82                1,387,232.57



TOTAL Activities Value (Including Lebanese Contribution)
                          Activity                            Current Budget       Proposed Budget
GRAND TOTAL                                                      30,420,190.2                 23,631,377
PROJECT MANAGEMENT+PIU                                              1,812,000                    775,000
UNALLOCATED                                                           768,000                  1,000,000
TOTAL                                                            33,000,190.2                 25,406,377



               TOTAL PROJECT VALUE                           WB amount        GVT         Total Project
                                                               (LOAN )       amount           value
CIVIL WORKS (20%)                                               4,310,741    1,044,217         5,354,958
Equipment Arrangements (at 20%)                                 8,407,774    1,483,724         9,891,498
TA Activities (at 7.5%)                                         7,756,052      628,869         8,384,921
Extra activity Expenditures: (Already Spent or committed) By    1,251,202      136,029         1,387,231
CDR & PIU (Variable %)
PIU + Project Management Until End of 2005 (7.5%)                 601,250       48,750           650,000
Unallocated                                                     1,000,000            0         1,000,000
Total                                                          23,327,019    3,341,589        26,668,608




                                                     - 45 -

   Additional Annex 10. Revised Project Design Summary


Narrative Summary            Key Performance            Monitoring &              Assumptions & Risks
                             Indicators                 Supervision
CAS Objective
1. Human Resources           1.1 Progressive increase   1.1.1 NEO data and        Macroeconomic growth.
prepared to meet                 in employment rate          DGVTE tracer
challenges of economic           of VTE graduates,           studies              Political stability
Development                      in the field for
                                 which they were                                  DGVTE coordinates with
                                 trained                                          NEO and commits to
                                                                                  regular graduate tracer
                                                                                  studies.
2. Reduce Poverty            2.1 Progressive increase   2.1.1 NEO data and
                                 of family income of         DGVTE tracer
                                 VTE graduates.              studies
Project Development
Objectives
1. VTE policy environment 1.1 Mechanisms for            1.1.1 Productive sector   Productive sector is willing
improved                         continuous dialogue         consultations        to invest time and
                                 with the productive                              resources in dialogue with
                                 sector are in place.                             MEHE
                             1.2 A VTE policy           1.2.1 MEHE records
                                 framework,                                       An integrated HRD policy
                                 collaboratively                                  framework is developed
                                 developed and                                    and implemented by
                                 ratified by the                                  MEHE
                                 Council of
                                 Ministers, is in       1.3.1 DGVTE PM&E
                                 place.                      unit records
                                 1.3 VTE Strategic
                                 Plan is being
                                 implemented
   2. VTE system planning 2.1 PM&E TA output            2.1.1 MEHE                GOL & MEHE commit the
   and management              accepted and agreed          Organisation Chart    necessary resources to
   capacity improved           with MEHE                    and associated        attract, train, and retain
                             2.2 DGVTE has                  position descriptions qualified staff
                               established and staffed a
                               Planning Monitoring
                               and Evaluation unit.
                             2.3 PM&E unit develops
                               and monitors an annual
                               system wide
                               development plan.
   3. VTE system program     3.1 DGVTE process is in    3.1.1 Output from Needs   Political will exists to
   profile, operating           place for continuous        Assessment TA.        undertake the required
   procedures, and physical     program review          3.1.2 DGVTE program       program adjustments
   assets are realigned with 3.2 Curriculum outlines        profile
   labor market                 have been revised in    3.1.3 DGVTE Operating
   requirements.                accordance with needs       procedures manuals
                                assessment study        3.1.4 Instructional staff
                                output.                     training records



                                                        - 46 -

                          3.3 Equipment lists linked
                             to learning outcomes
                             are in place
                          3.4 Teaching staff have
                             been upgraded to
                             deliver revised
                             programs.
Project Outputs
4. DGVTE planning          4.1 PM&E TA              4.1.1 Consultant          Government is committed
  capacity strengthened        recommendations      reports.                  to MEHE reorganization
                               accepted by MEHE     4.2.2 DGVTE               and allocates the required
                          4.2 PM&E unit staffed          organization chart,  resources.
                               with personnel            functional
                               trained through the       descriptions and     Public service provisions
                               PSU.                      staffing levels      are adjusted in order to
                          4.3 Planning procedures   4.3.2 DGVTE               retain suitably qualified
                               developed and             Operations manual    staff
                               operational.

                                                                              MEHE commits to
                                                                              strategic planning
                                                                              approaches.


                                                                              Output from all TA studies
                                                                              is translated into
                                                                              operational practice.
5. VEMIS developed and    5.1 VEMIS design          5.1.1 Consultant report
  operational                  consultant report    5.1.2 Procurement
                               accepted.                 process records.
                          5.2 Hardware and          5.1.3 System supplier
                               software procured,        installation and
                               installed and             commissioning
                               commissioned.             records.
                          5.3 VEMIS unit staff      5.1.4 DGVTE VEMIS
                               recruited and             system acceptance
                               trained.                  notice
                          5.4 Information products  5.1.5 DGVTE staffing
                               as per system design      records
                               being generated and  5.1.6 VEMIS
                               incorporated into         information
                               system management         products in
                               operations.               service.
6. VTE Strategic          6.1 Consultant report     6.1.1 Letter of acceptance
   Development Plan          accepted.                  of final report.
   developed.
7. Needs Assessment study 7.1 Consultant report     7.1.1 Letter of
  complete and VTE             accepted.                 acceptance of final
  Program Framework       7.2 Labor market               report.
  modified accordingly         profiled.            7.1.2 VTE program
                          7.3 VTE system program         profile.
                               profile adjusted.
8. Tracer study complete. 8.1 Consultant report     8.1.1 Letter of



                                                    - 47 -

                                 accepted.                  acceptance of final
                            8.2 Undertaking tracer          report.
                                 studies incorporated 8.1.2 DGVTE
                                 into ongoing               Operations Manual
                                 DGVTE operations.
9. Curriculum and associated9.1 Revised curriculum    9.1.1 Curriculum
   evaluation methodologies     outlines are in place outlines.
   aligned with needs       9.2 Examinations database 9.1.2 Examinations
   assessment output            is complete and            database
                                operational           9.1.3 Student evaluation
                                                           records.
10. Equipment purchased to 10.1 Equipment             11.1 Equipment
   develop specified            procurement lists have     procurement
   student/graduate             been filled.               records.
   competencies.            10.2 Curriculum learning 11.2 Curriculum
                                outcomes have been    outlines.
                                specified.
11. VTE instructional staff 11.1 Staff training       11.1 Staff training
   upgraded                      objectives have been      records.
                                 met.
12. Emergency rehabilitation12.1 Rehabilitation work  12.1 Acceptance of
   work completed               has been completed as      contractor
                                specified.                 completed work
13. VTE school capacity     13.1 Approx 6000 sq. m.   13.1 Acceptance of
   expanded                      of additional             contractor
                                 instructional space       completed work
                                 has been added to
                                 meet regional
                                 requirements.




                                                       - 48 -

- 49 -

