Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4298-LE
Loan Agreement
(Vocational and Technical Education Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 27, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4298-LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1998, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
“Implementation Manual” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation 
Manual, agreed with the Bank, for the carrying out of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(c)
“Category” means any of the Categories of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“MVTE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Vocational and Technical 
Education;
(e)
“CDR” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and Reconstruction, a 
public authority established and operating pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5, dated 
January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
Page  3
(g)
“Technical Committees” means the committees to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixty three million dollars 
($63,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts, the first (Special Account A) in respect of 
Categories (1), (2) and (4) and the second (Special Account B) in respect of 
Categories (3), (5) and (6), in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  4
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter.
(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions: (a) CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and 
(4); (b) MVTE is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (3), (5) and (6).
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed to for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Telex:
Page  6
923.235.13
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of AMERICA
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Mohamed Chatah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder Sud
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   13,110,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   17,220,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Printing of textbooks
    1,360,000
100% of local
Page  7
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(4)
Consultants' services
      640,000
100%
under Parts C.1 (a)
(ii) and C.1 (c)(ii)
of the Project
(5)
Consultants' services
   25,980,000
100%
under other Parts of
the Project and training
(6)
Project management
      180,000
90%
(7)
Unallocated
    4,510,000
TOTAL
   63,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project management” means expenditures under the Project 
incurred (i) by the PIU in relation to maintenance of vehicles and equipment, fuel, 
utility charges, office supplies, communication and transport costs, and insurance 
costs; and (ii) by the Technical Committees in relation to communication and 
transportation costs and the costs of reproducing documents.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $1,300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (e) training activities costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; and (f) Project management, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the Borrower’s 
vocational and technical education system (the VTE System).
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management and efficiency of the VTE 
System through, inter alia: 
(a)
the establishment and initial operation of a planning and monitoring 
unit, the development of quality assurance and management operational manuals and 
procedures, the development of a computerized labor market information system, the 
conducting of administrative, quality, market and tracer surveys to address the needs 
of the VTE System’s planners and administrators and the strengthening of school-based 
management; and
Page  8
(b)
the preparation of a long-term strategy for the VTE System in line with 
the Borrower’s long-term economic development objectives, including the preparation of 
regulatory framework for the implementation of such strategy and the preparation and 
carrying out of an information awareness campaign for the benefit thereof.
(c)
the preparation of a plan to develop a national policy with respect to 
the VTE System (i) to further strengthen institutional autonomy and accountability and 
improve accreditation and monitoring of schools, and (ii) to establish criteria and 
mechanisms for the financing of vocational and technical training.
2.
Provision of (i) consultants’ services, training, including workshops and study 
tours, computer hardware and software and media access to be utilized in the carrying 
out of Part A of the Project, and (ii) consultants’ services, training, staff and 
management operational manuals and system tools to facilitate overall management of 
Project execution.
Part B:
1.
Carrying out of a program to improve the relevance, responsiveness and quality 
of services under the VTE System through, inter alia:
(a)
the development and implementation of a suitable competency assessment 
methodology applicable to the developing needs of the economy for skilled workers and 
technicians, including the establishment of (i) a database for determining demand for 
pre-service, in-service and entrepreneurship training and retraining, and (ii) a 
School Advisory Board for each vocational and technical training school composed of 
representatives from enterprises, parents of trainees and the teaching staff of the 
respective school, to advise on the operations of each such school and its future 
development; and
(b)
(i) the development and implementation of VTE quality standards, 
including 
Certification of graduates, validation of training programs and 
accreditation of schools, (ii) the development and implementation of modern curricula 
for: existing pre-service as well as new fields of specialization, in-service 
training, retraining of enterprise workers, entrepreneurship training, and faculty 
academic and practical training, and (iii) the development, production and delivery of 
teacher guides and student manuals.
2.
Provision of consultants’ services, training, instructional materials, teacher 
guides and student manuals required to carry out Part B of the Project.
Part C:
1.
Carrying out of a program to improve the delivery of vocational and technical 
training through, inter alia:
(a)
(i) the preparation of a comprehensive physical survey of all existing 
schools under the VTE system and, on the basis of said survey, the design and 
execution of school rehabilitation and expansion works, together with furnishing and 
equipping such schools and (ii) the supervision of said rehabilitation and expansion 
works;
(b)
the preparation of feasibility studies for the expansion of vocational 
and technical training into new fields of specialization through collaborative efforts 
between the VTE System and the private enterprise sector; and
(c)
(i) carrying out works to construct facilities for new fields of 
specialization identified by the feasibility studies referred to under Part C.1 (b) of 
the Project, together with furnishing and equipping such facilities; and (ii) the 
supervision of said works.
2.
Provision of consultants’ services, furniture and equipment, and the carrying 
out of works, required to implement Part C of the Project.
* * *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 2002
      1,575,000.00 
May 15, 2003
      1,625,000.00 
November 15, 2003
      1,680,000.00 
May 15, 2004
      1,735,000.00 
November 15, 2004
      1,790,000.00 
May 15, 2005
      1,850,000.00 
November 15, 2005
      1,910,000.00 
May 15, 2006
      1,970,000.00 
November 15, 2006
      2,035,000.00 
May 15, 2007
      2,105,000.00 
November 15, 2007
      2,170,000.00 
May 15, 2008
      2,245,000.00 
November 15, 2008
      2,315,000.00 
May 15, 2009
      2,390,000.00 
November 15, 2009
      2,470,000.00 
May 15, 2010
      2,550,000.00 
November 15, 2010
      2,635,000.00 
May 15, 2011
      2,720,000.00 
November 15, 2011
      2,810,000.00 
May 15, 2012
      2,900,000.00 
November 15, 2012
      2,995,000.00 
May 15, 2013
      3,095,000.00 
November 15, 2013
      3,195,000.00 
May 15, 2014
      3,300,000.00 
November 15, 2014
      3,410,000.00 
May 15, 2015
      3,525,000.00
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections  3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage 
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18 
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35 
not more than six years 
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65 
not more than eleven  
years before maturity
Page  10
More than eleven years but
0.88 
not more than fifteen 
years before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00 
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be, and (b) works shall 
be, procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Bidders for these works shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $700,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  11
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,300,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services whose nature or locality make them more suitable to be procured on the 
basis of single source selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph  1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, under which MVTE shall be responsible for the overall coordination and 
supervision of Project execution, in accordance with the details set forth in the 
Implementation Manual;
(b)
maintain, with resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
(i) a Project Implementation Unit, within MVTE, to be responsible for the day-to-day 
coordination and supervision of Project execution, and (ii) a Technical Committee for 
each Subpart of the Project to be responsible for ensuring that such Subpart is 
designed and carried out in conformity with appropriate technical considerations; and
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each year, a plan for 
the carrying out of the activities under the Project during the following twelve 
months period, including implementation schedules, cost estimates and sources of funds 
therefor.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
employ consultants and other experts, with qualification and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with CDR pursuant to 
which CDR shall undertake the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services 
under the Project on behalf of the Borrower; and 
(c)
(i)
ensure that the plan referred to under Part A.1 (c) of the Project 
shall be prepared and furnished to the Bank for its review and comments, by December 
31, 1999, and (ii) after taking into consideration the Bank views thereon, finalize 
and thereafter implement said plan in accordance with a time schedule agreed with the 
Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than (i) October 31 and April 30 of each year, a report on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out the Project and the measures to be undertaken to 
ensure such progress, and (ii) January 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
Page  13
(c)
review with the Bank (i) by November 30 of each year, the reports 
referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section for such year and the measures to be 
undertaken to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project during the following 
twelve months period; and (ii) by April 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (4), in 
respect of Special Account A, and Categories (3), (5) and (6), in respect of Special 
Account B;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 in respect of 
Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount 
equivalent to $900,000 in respect of Special Account B, until (i) in respect of 
Special Account A the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to Categories (1), (2) and (4) plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions on account of the procurement of goods and works shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (3), (5) 
and (6) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions on account of the 
procurement of consultants’ services shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
Page  14
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into either Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the expenditures to be financed under said 
Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
either Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in either Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
