Report No. PID4746
Project Name                     Lebanon-Vocational and Technical Education Project ()
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       LBPA38687
Borrower                         Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Vocational and Technical
Education (MVTE)
Minister Farouk Barbir
Tel: (961-1) 371-694 Fax: (961-1) 371-689
Mr. Bourhan Kreitem,
Project Director of the World Bank Project,
Director of the Project Implementation Unit
Tel: (961-1) 371-694 Fax: (961-1) 371-689
Dr. Ali Zaraket (Director General of MVTE)
Tel: (961-1) 492-690    Fax: (961-1) 493-628
Date of Original PID             September 27, 1996
Date This PID Prepared           January 5, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 3, 1997
Projected Board Date             March 19, 1998
1.     Country and Sector Background:   The Government's
reconstruction efforts over the last few years have created a
hospitable environment for the inflow of private capital. The
resulting rapid growth (nearly 7T p.a. in recent years) created an
increase in the demand for labor, and skill shortages have begun to
appear due to the lack of a qualified labor force. The
reconstruction program and the pattern of growth of the economy
further increase the need for a flexible and skilled workforce,
which in turn will require reform of the Vocational and Technical
Education (VTE) sector, including substantially more effective
delivery systems.
2.      In view of its importance, the vocational training effort
resumed in 1993 with the rehabilitation of existing public
vocational schools under the World Bank Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) and the creation of a separate
Ministry for Vocational and Technical Education (MVTE). The
Government has increased the VTE budget by 62t in real terms since
1993, indicating its strong commitment to vocational skill
formation. The Arab Fund and Islamic Development Bank have provided
funding in an amount of about US$80 million for the construction of
facilities. The MVTE is currently receiving assistance from the
German and French governments and the UNDP to improve curricula and
develop cooperative training with industry. In addition, there is a
strong private sector presence. However, the quality of training
offered, mostly in service-oriented occupations (secretarial,
commerce, and computer operation), is mixed. By contrast, a number



of NGOs provide relatively good training in industrial trades. Some
NGOs have developed strong ties with Germany and France and are
equipped with competent staff and modern equipment and training
methodologies.
3.      Despite these efforts, weaknesses in the system are evident in
three key areas: management and efficiency; relevance,
responsiveness and quality of training; and condition and adequacy
of the physical infrastructure. These weaknesses include: (a)
absence of a comprehensive VTE policy framework; (b) low status of
VTE; (c) weak sector coordination; (d) high dropout and repetition
rates; (e) weak linkages between VTE schools and employers; (f)
outdated curricula and course materials; (g) lack of modern
equipment, resource materials and library books; (h) low level of
instructor salaries and consequently low levels of technical
knowledge by instructors; and (j) limited availability of training
for the handicapped and disadvantaged groups.
4.     Project Objectives: The objective of the project is to improve
the performance of the Vocational and Technical Education (VTE)
system by making it more demand driven and responsive to market
needs. The project would achieve this objective by: (a)
strengthening the institutional framework; (b) improving relevance,
responsiveness and quality of training; and (c) improving delivery
mechanisms by (i) making existing VTE schools more efficient, and
(ii) establishing new schools in which the private sector plays the
lead role in management and operation. The project would support
the Government's policy of developing a more flexible VTE system
that facilitates the acquisition and adaptation of skills to new
jobs, as the structure of the economy and occupations change.
5.      Project  Cost and Financing::   Project cost is tentatively
estimated at US$69 million. Proposed IBRD financing would be about
US$63 million; the Government US$6 million
6.      Project Implementation:   The MVTE would be the implementing
agency in cooperation with the Council for Development and
Reconstruction (CDR). Detailed arrangements were discussed
extensively during project appraisal and post-appraisal in November
and December, 1997 respectively. A matrix outlining the
responsibilities between CDR and MVTE-PIU with respect to the
various activities relating to civil works and equipment procurement
based on the format provided by the mission will be presented during
negotiations scheduled for January 12, 1998.
7.      Project Sustainability:   Overall sustainability of the VTE
system would be accomplished through: (a) improved planning and
management of the sector, (b) an information system for policy
formulation and implementation, (c) more effective governance, (d)
improved supervision monitoring and quality control, (e)
strengthening coordination with other agencies/ministries and, (f)
developing strong linkages with the labor market. Financial
sustainability of the project would be accomplished through: (g)
reduction of unit costs, improved management and internal efficiency
in public VTE schools; (h) introduction of shorter, more cost-
- 2 -



effective training programs against which fees can be charged, (i)
expanded use of existing VTE schools by the private sector for
special fee-paying training programs; (j) improved revenues from
fees, production and contributions from the private sector.
8.      Poverty & Program Objectives Category:   The project is not a
poverty reduction operation, but as a large number of students come
from poor to low income households, the project would have a
positive effect on poverty reduction.
9.     Environmental Aspects:   The proposed project has been cleared
for Category C. No adverse environmental impact is expected from
the project. There will be a series of small construction contracts
as part of the operation and implementing agencies will be required
to ensure that appropriate environmental protection measures are
taken as part of each construction contract. Training for trades
with environmental pollution implications and addressing the adverse
impact of such activities (such as automotive) is being incorporated
in the proposed training.
10.    Project Benefits:   The project is expected to: (a) improve
labor productivity and global competitiveness resulting from
improvements in the quality and relevance of the training; (b)
generate tax revenues from increased numbers of VTE graduates and
higher tax contributions from graduates with higher earnings due to
the qualitative improvements in training; (c) result in more
efficient use of public funds applied to the sector through improved
planning and decision-making processes; (d) create a more flexible,
responsive and quality oriented VTE system, which would enable the
creation of new enterprises increasing self-employment
opportunities, which would reduce unemployment by retraining
unemployed workers; (e) increase participation of females in the
labor market by reducing female dropout rates; (f) provide greater
equality of education opportunity (g) improve coordination between
basic, vocational/technical and higher education levels by
strengthening the Higher Council for Vocational and Technical
Education ; (h) improve cooperation between the public and private
sectors through consultation and partnership in the provision of
VTE; (i) provide a better trained labor force which could be
deployed to both local and international markets; (j) improve the
image of VTE; and (k) assist in the integration of VTE into the
broader Human Resources Development policy.
11.    Project Risks:   There are two potential risks arising from the
danger of continued emphasis on a supply driven VTE system. The
project may not succeed in: (a) ensuring relevance of training to
market needs; and (b) quality of training. The first risk would be
mitigated by involving the private sector (employers) in the design
and implementation of training programs. The second risk is more
difficult to address since improving the quality is a longer term
process both with respect to the quality of the instructors and the
quality of the students' knowledge base. The project will, however,
help provide the basis for quality improvement.
- 3 -



Contact Points:          Vasilios C. Demetriou, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-1220
Fax:   (202) 477-0036 or 477-8642
Alternate: Randa El-Rashidi
Telephone: (202) 473-2274
Note:   The contents of this document are subject to change and the
components described may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998.
- 4 -



