Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13197
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE III
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2353-BR)
JUNE 23, 1994
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Appraisal:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$381 (February 1983)
Cr$1,000 = US$2.62
Completion:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = CrS5,600 (September 1992)
Cr$1,000 = US$0.18
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ASTER-RO               Associagao de Assistencia T6cnica e Extensao Rural de Rondonia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association of Rondonia)
BB                     Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BASA                   Banco de Amazonas Sociedade An6nima
(Bank of Amazon)
BEC                    Batalhlo de Engenharia de Construgao
(Civil Engineering Battalion)
CAGERO                 Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de Rondonia
(State Warehouse and Silo Company)
CEPLAC                 Comissao Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueira
(Executive Commission for Cocoa)
CODARON                Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agrfcola do Estado de Rondonia
(State Agricultural Development Company of Rond6nia)
CONSEMA                Conselho Estadual do Meio Ambiente
(State Council of Environrment)
DER-RO                 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
(State Highway Department of Rondonia)
EMATER-RO              Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Estado de Rond6nia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of Rondonia)
EMBRAPA                Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Agricultural Research Company of Brazil)
ERR                    Project Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP                 FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FPB                    Batalhao de Polfcia Florestal
(Forestry Police Battalion)
GOB                    Government of Brazil
IBDF                   Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
ICM                    Imposto Sobre a Comercializagao de Mercadoria
(Sales Tax)
IEF                    Instituto Estadual de Florestas
(Rond6nia State Forestry Institute)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INCRA                  Instituto Nacional de Colonizac,o e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
NUAR                   Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Center)
PCU                    Project Coordination Unit
PCR                    Project Completion Report
POLONOROESTE           Programna Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
PROBOR                 Programa de Incentivos a Produ,co de Borracha Natural
(Program of Incentives for Natural Rubber Production)
RADAMBRASEL            Levantarnento Geografico do Brasil
(Radar Survey of Brazil)
SAP                    Special Action Program - World Bank
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                    Secretaria,de Desenvolvimento Regional
(Federal Secretariat of Regional Development)
SEAGRI-RO              Secretaria de Agricultura de Rond6nia
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEC-RO                 Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura
(Rond6nia State Secretariat of Education)
SEMARO                 Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Environment)
SEPLAN-RO              Secretaria de Estado de Planejainento e Coordenac,o Geral
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination)
SES-RO                 Secretaria de Saude de RondOnia
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Health)
SETRAPS-RO             Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho e Ac,o Social
(RondBnia State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action)
SUDECO                 Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West Region)
SUDHEVEA               Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Borracha
(Superintendency for Rubber Development)
UEPAE-RO               Unidade de Execuc,o de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual de RondBnia
(RondBnia State Research Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Brazil
Northwest Region Development Program--Phase III
New Settlements Project (Loan 2353-BR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Brazil--Northwest
Region Integrated Development Program--Phase III, New Settlements Project (Loan 2353-BR)"
prepared by the Environment and Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department I, Latin
America and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory. The original settlement plan proved
nonviable because of poor soil conditions. The project was reduced in scope after a mid-term review,
about 40% of the loan was then cancelled, and the components were reoriented to environmental,
institutional and policy objectives. The PCR reckons that the ex-post rate of return on all project
expenditures is low or negative. If judged by performance toward the revised objectives, however,
the outcome of the final years of project operations was very positive. It led to the ongoing "natural
resource management" projects in the same area, which are proceeding satisfactorily.
The rating on sustainability reflects the same two phases. The long-term viability of the
settlements that were completed remains in doubt, because of the low family incomes. The
sustainability of the environmental and policy reforms seems certain. On the other hand, progress
towards institutional objectives in both periods was modest.
The Project Completion Report is of acceptable quality. The project will be audited as part
of a cluster of all five completed projects in this Northwest Region Development Program.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2353-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagze
PREFACE  .......................................................   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                          ..........................................                                                        ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................   1
Project Identity  ...............................................                                                                   1
Project Background   ............................................                                                                   1
Project Objectives and Description  ...................................                                                             2
Project Design and Organization   ....................................                                                              3
Project Implementation  ..........................................                                                                  5
New  Settlements Component   .................................                                                           6
Forestry Development and  Control Component  .....................                                                      11
Preparatory Activities for New Regional
Development Projects in the Northwest Component  .................                                                   12
Project Management, Monitoring  and Evaluation Component   ............                                                 12
Project Results  ..............................................                                                                    13
Project Risks  ...............................................                                                                     15
Project Sustainability   ..........................................                                                                15
Bank Performance  .............................................    16
Borrower Performance   ..........................................                                                                  17
Project Relationships   ...........................................                                                                17
Consulting Services ............................................  18
Lessons Learned  ..............................................    18
Project Documentation and Data   ....................................    19
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                  ......... 20
Comments on Part I ............................................    20
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned   ...................   20
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned   ...............   21
PART  III: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    .................................    23
Related Bank Loans  ............................................    23
Table  1: IBRD  Loans Relevant to the Project  .........................    23
Project Timetable   .............................................    24
Table 2: Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable   ............   24
Loan Disbursement  ............................................    24
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual Disbursements   .................    24
Project Implementation  ..........................................    25
Table 4: Project Implementation Indicators ...........................    25
Project Costs and Financing  .......................................    28



Table 5: Project Costs   ..........  .               ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .    .    28
Table 6: Project Financing ..........  .                 .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    .   28
Project Results  ............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                 .    29
Table 7: Direct Benefits  .........  .               ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .     .   29
Table 8: Economic Impact .........  ..  .                  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .   29
Table 9: Financial Impact  .........  .                .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .     .   29
Table 10: Studies   ..........  ..  ..  .              ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .     .   30
Status of Loan Covenants   ..........  ..  ..  .                 ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .    .    30
Table 11: Compliance with Loan Covenants .......  .                      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   30
Mission Data  .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  .                     .    32
Table 12: Bank Mission and Staff Input Data by Stages of Project  ......  .                        .  .  .  .     .  32
ANNEXES .................... .                                   .........................    33
1. Project Colonization Area and Titling .34
2a. Rondonia State - Total Costs .35
2b. Mato Grosso - Total Costs .36
3. Total Project: Area, Production and Value of Production .37
4. Comparison of Family Income Estimates .38
5. Yields (t/ha) of Major Crops (1989-92) .39
6. Appraisal and PCR Comparison of Main Product Prices .40
MAP: IBRD 17069



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE III
NEW SE7TILEMENTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2353-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the New Settlements Project under the
Northwest Integrated Regional Development Program (POLONOROESTE) in Brazil. Loan 2353-BR,
in the amount of US$65.2 million, was approved on October 25, 1983, to help finance the
implementation of the above project, the total cost of which was estimated at US$181.8 million. The
Loan and Project Agreements were signed on November 3, 1983, and the loan became effective on
February 22, 1984. The loan closed on March 31, 1992, after three extensions of the original closing
date of December 31, 1989. Final disbursement of loan proceeds took place on August 18, 1992. Some
US$36.8 million was disbursed, and US$28.4 million was cancelled, of which US$27.0 million was
cancelled on May 1, 1988 and US$1.4 million at closing.
The PCR was prepared by the Environment and Agriculture Division of Department I of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office of the World Bank. It is based on a report by the
FAO Cooperative Program after field visits in September and November 1992, the Staff Appraisal
Report, the President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, the Borrower's progress and final
reports by the Secretariat for Regional Development and the States of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, Bank
supervision reports, project correspondence and internal Bank memoranda. The Bank wishes to thank
the Federal and State Governments for their cooperation and assistance in preparing the Project
Completion Report.






- ii -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE III
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2353-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        In 1980, in recognition of the pressing socio-economic problems caused by rising
spontaneous migration to the Amazon Basin, the Brazilian Government launched the Northwest
Region Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE). The New Settlements Project
was the last of three agricultural operations, in a series of five projects approved by the World
Bank between 1981 and 1983, to support POLONOROESTE. The other two projects financed
the improvement of health conditions in settlement areas of Rond6nia, and completion of a
highway linking the capital cities of Rond6nia and Mato Grosso, respectively. The Program
aimed to promote the orderly occupation, development and integration into the national economy
of the less developed Northwest Region; increase the productivity, incomes, and health and
social welfare of the Region's population; and ensure that the development of the Region was
consonant with the need to protect the natural resources of the area and the well-being of its
indigenous communities. Unlike the other two POLONOROESTE agricultural projects (Loans
2060-BR and 2116-BR)," which aimed at consolidating and stabilizing the rural population that
had already settled in Rond6nia and Mato Grosso, Loan 2353-BR was designed to establish new
settlements for about 15,000 migrant farm families, using cost-effective settlement and
environmental protection methods that might later be replicated elsewhere in the Brazilian
Amazon. The project sought to promote the sustainable development of about 1.1 million ha
of settlement area, by financing appropriate agriculture, extension and research programs, as
well as social services and infrastructure.
Implementation
2.        Loan 2353-BR was the last of the five loans approved by the Bank in support of the
POLONOROESTE Program. It was approved in October 1983, signed in November 1983, and
See Project Completion Reports N's 9519 and 9382, respectively, for Loans 2060-BR and
2116-BR.



- 111 -
declared effective in February 1984. At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$181.8
million, and it was expected that the Bank loan of US$65.2 million would finance 36% of total
costs net of taxes. The project was included in the Bank's Special Action Program (SAP) to
accelerate disbursements for ongoing projects in Brazil. Consequently, the Bank financed about
50% of costs through March 31, 1985 and 35% thereafter. Disbursements were informally
suspended in March 1985, following a mid-term evaluation of POLONOROESTE by the Bank,
and resumed in August 1985, after compliance with agreed actions under this and other Bank
loans for the Program. At that time, the Bank and the Government also agreed to restructure
the project by limiting new development to about one-third of the original target of 1.1 million
ha, because results of studies showed relatively poor soil capability in most of the project area.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank and the Government relied on insufficient testing of
soil quality, out of an apparent sense of urgency to deal with the rapid increase of migration to
Rond6nia. After the restructuring, the proceeds of Loan 2353-BR were redirected mainly to
consolidation of the area already settled, research and introduction of consortia of perennial
crops and agro-forestry, environmental protection activities, and actions to address some of the
critical social issues that had developed, particularly in respect of health. In May 1988, about
US$27.8 million of the loan, which was not needed for the aforementioned purposes, was
cancelled. In 1990, the loan was further amended to provide bridge financing for preparation
and agro-ecological zoning activities for the then proposed Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural
Resource Management Projects (Loans 3444-BR and 3492-BR, respectively). At loan closing
(March 31, 1992, with final disbursement in August 1992), an additional US$1.4 million was
cancelled. Disbursements totalled US$36.8 million or 56% of the original loan. Final total
project costs are estimated at US$62.0 million or 34% of the original estimate, although these
figures are not strictly comparable given the fundamental restructuring of the project during its
implementation.
Results
3.         The project targets, in terms of number of beneficiaries, total cultivated area and
agricultural production, were not met. This was due both to the major reduction in project area
and the overestimation of the agricultural potential of that part of the area which was actually
settled. The number of direct agricultural beneficiaries was about 31 % of the appraisal estimate
(about 4,640, compared to 15,000 families projected at appraisal). Total cultivated area,
excluding improved pastures, reached about 27,500 ha or 28% of the appraisal estimate. About
50% of the area actually cultivated is under perennial crops and 50% under annual crops, similar
to appraisal expectations of the ratio between the two forms of cultivation. However the move
towards rubber, Brazil nuts and high-value tropical fruit trees did not materialize as anticipated
at appraisal. Instead, coffee was cultivated in about 64% of the area devoted to perennial crops.
Production of annual crops reached about the level and yields estimated at appraisal. However,
the yield achievements for perennial crops were poor (56% of the appraisal estimates), due to
limited application of necessary inputs, because of severe credit constraints faced by project
beneficiaries.



- Iv -
4.         Incomes of project beneficiaries did improve, but much less than anticipated at
appraisal: actual average family incomes reached only 27% of the appraisal estimate, or
US$1,600 per annum. The appraisal report estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to
be 26%. The ERR of the project was not recalculated at completion because there was
insufficient data on actual yearly on-farm investments and incremental operating costs for the
main farm models. However, considering that total project investment costs spent on the
settlement areas (excluding social infrastructure and services, and expenditures outside the three
settlements after the project restructuring) were US$42.2 million, while the annual gross value
of production at full development was only US$3.5 million, it is likely that an ERR recalculation
would be close to zero, if not negative. This is due to the low number of project beneficiaries,
marginal production of high value perennial crops, real price increases for farm inputs, and a
sharp drop in real product prices, including a 65 % decrease in coffee prices as compared with
appraisal price projections.
5.        In the areas actually settled, the project succeeded in establishing a reasonable
physical and social infrastructure, although on a much more limited scale than expected. The
project significantly improved the road network in the most remote settled areas, facilitating the
marketing of farm products; constructed (under-utilized) storage and crop drying facilities;
provided schools and health posts in the new settled areas and, at a later stage of
implementation, introduced the same social facilities into previously unattended rural
communities outside the original project area.
6.         Rond6nia had been converted from a Federal Territory to a State only in late 1981.
Consequently, the new State's institutional base was quite weak at the start of the
POLONOROESTE Program. Through the project, key institutions were strengthened (i.e., a
State Forestry Institute and forest military police, a State Secretariat for the Environment, a State
Land Institute and the state agricultural extension service), and a large number of personnel at
all levels are now trained in rural project planning, administration, monitoring and evaluation.
These institutional developments may ultimately have a wider and more beneficial impact than
the project itself.
Sustainability
7.         The project failed to foster sustainable development. It did not succeed in settling
a rural population, engaged primarily in cultivating high value perennial crops. The project's
environmental protection strategy was overly optimistic in attempting to compensate for the
negative effects of settling farmers, and building roads and other infrastructure in virgin forest
areas subject to heavy migration pressure.
Lessons Leamed
8.        The following are the main lessons learned in the course of implementing this
project, which should be taken into account in the design of future similar projects:



- v -
(a)  A settlement project in frontier areas, known to have a very fragile natural
environment, should never be undertaken in the absence of solid technical
information regarding land capability and soil fertility. This project should not have
proceeded before basic agro-ecological zoning work had been carried out, and more
detailed soils studies performed for each of the specific settlement areas which were
planned. The fact that it did proceed was the main cause of failure of the project
settlement activities.
(b)  Large-scale settlement schemes in tropical virgin forests should be carefully
evaluated and, if possible, avoided. In any case, a full environmental impact
assessment should be carried out during preparation in order to determine the
complementary actions needed to ensure a proper balance between land development
and natural resource protection. In the case of this project, more realism was
warranted concerning the pull-effect into the Region of a project promising
essentially free land to settlers in the context of declining land availability elsewhere
in Brazil.
(c)  When agricultural development depends on the availability of credit to farmers, a
careful analysis should be made as to whether such credit actually exists in quantity
and terms which are suitable to the project, and whether project farmers will be
considered eligible by the banking system. If not, the project should not proceed.
In this case, there was sufficient evidence of likely credit constraints for small
farmers, including indications of early difficulties under the first two
POLONOROESTE agricultural operations, to have warranted a good deal more
caution.
(d)  Institutional capacity should be carefully analyzed during preparation and appraisal,
and the magnitude and sequence of project interventions planned accordingly. When
a multitude of actions are required, as is frequently the case with new settlement
efforts, a project should establish an area entity with suitable implementation
capacity and authority to ensure that all activities are implemented in a timely
manner, whether by state executing agencies or the private sector.



PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identily
Project Name   Northwest Region Integrated Development Program - Phase III -New
Settlements Project
Loan No.       2353-BR
RVP Unit       Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
Country     : Brazil
Sector      : Environment and Agriculture
Project Background
2.        Over the last two decades, increasing scarcity of arable land and mechanization of
agriculture in the South of Brazil, and droughts and persistent poverty in the Northeast, have
stimulated large numbers of rural families to migrate toward the Northwest States of the Amazon
Basin in search of land to farm and a better standard of living. During the 1970s, the population
of the Territory of Rond6nia grew at an annual rate of 16%, making this the most rapidly
expanding agricultural frontier in all of Brazil. Government road-building and colonization
schemes which had been established to help integrate the Northwest Region with the rest of the
country were unable to keep pace with this rapidly accelerating migration. Between 1970 and
1975, some 60,000 new families migrated to Rond6nia, but only about half of these were
absorbed in various official settlement schemes.  An equal number joined the marginal
populations of newly created towns or became squatters on the fringes of public projects, in
traditional indigenous areas and forest reserves. By the late 1970s, Rond6nia's population had
more than quadrupled, as compared with the beginning of the decade. Socio-economic problems
were mounting, deforestation was largely uncontrolled, and the well-being of the State's
indigenous inhabitants was seriously threatened.
3.        In 1980, in recognition of the pressing socio-economic problems caused by rising
spontaneous migration to the Region, the Brazilian Government launched a program of major
investments in the agricultural frontier areas of Rond6nia and Western Mato Grosso. The
program, known as the Northwest Region Integrated Development Program, or
"POLONOROESTE", aimed to absorb the human influx in a sustainable manner, by increasing
agricultural productivity, rural incomes and social welfare. The major components were road
construction and improvement, including the completion and asphalting of the main Federal
highway into the Northwest Region (BR-364) between Cuiaba and Porto Velho (the capitals of
Mato Grosso and Rond6nia, respectively), consolidation of existing settlement schemes and
support for the establishment of new ones, improvement of physical and social infrastructure and
services, and measures to protect the natural environment and the interests of the indigenous
population.



- 2 -
4.        POLONOROESTE activities were financed under five complementary Bank loans
(Part III, Table 1), conceived in three overlapping phases. The first and most extensive phase
included the consolidation of existing settlements in central Rondonia and the implementation
of various environmental protection measures (Loan 2060-BR); the establishment of a rural
health network in Rond6nia, including strengthened malaria control (Loan 2061-BR); and the
paving of the interstate road BR-364 (Loan 2062-BR). The second phase (Loan 2116-BR)
extended similar rural development activities to selected areas of Mato Grosso, with larger
concentrations of small farmers. The New Settlement Project (Loan 2353-BR), which is the
subject of this Completion Report, constituted the third phase of the POLONOROESTE Program
and was designed mainly to: (a) settle about 15,000 migrant farm families in an area which
consisted mainly of virgin forest in the State of Rond6nia; (b) develop cost-effective settlement
and environmental protection methods, for possible replication elsewhere in the
POLONOROESTE Program area; (c) strengthen POLONOROESTE Program management,
monitoring and evaluation; and (d) support preparatory activities for new regional development
projects in the Northwest Region.
5.        The project was developed by the Federal and State Governments with about 160
staff weeks of assistance from the Bank, FAO/CP and consultants for preparation and appraisal,
between June 1980 and June 1983. Project preparation took into account both Government
studies which had been done before launching the POLONOROESTE Program and the findings
of the 1980 Bank report, "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier", which
had provided the sectoral background and strategic basis for Bank involvement in the
POLONOROESTE Program.
6.        Loan 2353-BR, in the amount of US$65.2 million, was approved on October 25,
1983, signed on November 3, 1983, and became effective on February 22, 1984. An Amending
Agreement decreasing the loan amount to US$38 million was put into effect in May 1988. The
Loan was further amended in August 1990 to provide bridge financing for critical environmental
protection and sustainable agricultural activities, originally financed under the then-closed first
and second phase projects of the POLONOROESTE Program and to be continued by the
Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects (Loans 3444-BR and 3492-
BR, respectively), under preparation at the time.
Project Objectives and Description
7.        The New Settlements Project sought to promote and consolidate settlement in an area
of about 1.1 million ha of mainly virgin tropical forest in the state of Rond6nia. It was expected
to establish about 15,000 permanent smallholdings of under 50 ha each, thereby improving
output and incomes of migrant settlers/farm families and improving the Government's capacity
to plan and execute similar settlement programs in other parts of the Amazon region. The
underlying agricultural development strategy was to discourage deforestation and shifting
cultivation of annual crops, in favor of environmentally more suitable and economically more
profitable perennial tree crops. It was expected that the area under coffee, guarana, brazil nuts,



- 3 -
rubber, and other fruit trees would reach at full development about 45,000 ha, while the
cultivation of rice, maize, beans, and cassava would reach about 54,000 ha and pasture 63,900
ha. Improvements in physical and social infrastructure and security of land tenure were also
expected to benefit the broader population in the settlements and generally lead to an increase
in the density of occupation. The project also sought to improve environmental protection in
the project area, help strengthen program management and monitoring and evaluation, and assist
in the preparation of new regional development projects elsewhere in Northwest Brazil. The
project thus included the following inter-related components and sub-components, which were
to be implemented over a six-year period:
(a)  new settlement component (including land tenure regularization, farm access roads,
establishment of rural service centers, medium- and long-term credit for the
production of rubber and other perennial crops, rural extension and farmer technical
assistance, adaptive agricultural research, crop drying and storage, and social
services);
(b)  forestry development and control component (including inventories, establishment
of reserves, support for rational resource use, and strengthening extension
activities);
(c)  program management, monitoring and evaluation component; and
(d)  support for preparation of other projects in the Northwest region component.
In parallel with the above, the Brazilian Government agreed to finance the construction and
maintenance of feeder roads and limited Rural Service Center (NUAR) infrastructure, routine
maintenance of all roads, operation of education and health facilities, supply of improved seeds,
and seasonal rural credit, in the project area.
Project Design and Organization
8.        Unlike POLONOROESTE's Phases I and II (para. 4), which sought to consolidate
farming in previously settled areas, the Phase III New Settlements Project was intended to
promote the agricultural occupation of previously uninhabited areas by new colonists, as well
as to develop a model that could be replicated elsewhere in Rond6nia and other Amazonian
frontier areas. This ambitious effort would have required a careful initial assessment of land
capability, with detailed evaluation of soil quality in the specific settlement areas envisioned, and
guaranteed technical services and credit availability to support the establishment of permanent
agriculture by small farmers with limited financial means. The project was recognized as being
ambitious, in light of weak institutional capacity, its location in an environmentally risk-prone
area, and the limited available knowledge of natural resources.



- 4 -
9.        Testing of soil quality by the National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform
(INCRA) was insufficient. It was based on data from RADAMBRAZIL (a radar survey of
Brazil) and extrapolated from the experience of early settlements in central Rond6nia where soil
quality was generally better. The latter experience was the origin of the premise that Rond6nia
possessed a much higher proportion of fertile soils than did other Amazonian sub-regions. It
appears, in retrospect, that the sense of urgency generated by increasing migration to Rond6nia
(para. 2) prompted the Government and the Bank to accept a more superficial treatment of the
site selection issue than was prudent from a technical standpoint. A second problem concerned
medium- and long-term credit, which was to be reimbursed by the Bank, but depended, in the
first instance, on existing special credit lines for rubber and other perennial crops. However,
availability of credit was already becoming a problem under the earlier POLONOROESTE
projects, and the magnitude of this constraint multiplied when all credit lines were suspended
under GOB's economic stabilization program. As a result, long-term investment credit for
establishment of perennial crops did not materialize. Seasonal credit was also lacking in the area
throughout most of the project period.
10.       Administration and coordination of the project at the federal level, as with other
POLONOROESTE projects, were the responsibility of the Superintendency for the Development
of the Center-West Region (SUDECO), one of four regional development superintendencies
under the Ministry of the Interior. At the State level, the Government of Rond6nia was to have
overall responsibility for project execution. Federal funds were to be channelled through the
Planning Secretariat of Rond6nia (SEPLAN/RO), which was to coordinate the participation of
local agencies through a specially created Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Project organization
was based on the following important assumptions: (a) INCRA, a federal institution, was the
main project executing agency responsible for construction of roads and buildings, as well as the
establishment of settlement sites; (b) the State Agricultural Development Company of Rond6nia
(CODARON) was responsible for the planning and implementation of all agricultural activities,
thereby simplifying the requirements for interagency coordination; and (c) the State, through the
Economic and Social Development Council, was responsible for policy decisions, while the PCU
had to ensure inter-agency coordination, monitoring and supervision of project activities.
11.       These organizational arrangements proved immediately to be inadequate. The State
PCU did not have sufficient authority to enforce decisions about the project, especially vis-a-vis
the more powerful INCRA. A requirement that INCRA transfer responsibility to the State
Government for administering the project settlements remained unmet until 1985. At the same
time, CODARON, plagued by administrative problems since the beginning, was abolished in
1985 and its functions assumed by several state departments and agencies. This resulted in more
complex project administration arrangements than originally conceived. Federal coordination
by SUDECO also proved to be too weak vis-a-vis other federal agencies involved in the project,
and was generally too far removed from project implementation at the field level to provide
effective monitoring and evaluation.



- 5 -
12.       In summary, a more careful assessment should have been made at the stage of
project design regarding: (a) the need for more comprehensive and detailed testing and mapping
of soil capabilities in the project area; (b) the likely availability of credit, its terms and
conditions, and whether project farmers were going to be considered eligible by the banking
system; and (c) a broader analysis of the policies, regulations and investment programs which
were fostering migration to the project area at a rate which would overwhelm the capacity of
project coordination and executing agencies. Finally, (d) project organization arrangements did
not reflect the relative power of the various coordinating and implementing agencies, and tended
to be overcentralized at the federal level.
Project Implementation
13.       During the early years, project implementation did not progress as anticipated.
Specific reasons for slow start-up included: (a) difficulties in the application of criteria for settler
selection; (b) delays in planning for the development of farmers' plots, because of the extension
service's lack of region-specific expertise and limited outreach capability; (c) high incidence of
malaria, which caused considerable loss of human life and limited farmers' labor capacity; and
(d) counterpart funding delays and shortfalls, compounded by inflation rates of 200-400% p.a.
Following the critical findings of a mid-term review of POLONOROESTE in late 1984, the
Bank informally suspended disbursements on this and other POLONOROESTE loans from
March to August 1985, until the Government complied with agreed corrective actions. The main
reasons for the suspension of disbursements had to do with actions under other
POLONOROESTE loans (i.e., protection of Amerindian communities and environmental
protection activities under Loan 2060-BR), but they also concerned non-compliance under Loan
2353-BR, including: (a) the lack of credit; (b) the contractual arrangements between the State
of Rondonia and INCRA regarding assumption of responsibilities by the State for the new sites;
(c) definition of institutional arrangements for the management and protection of block forest
reserves; and (d) availability of soil surveys for the Urupa and Machadinho project areas.
14.       Also in 1985, and based on the results of soil surveys which identified general soil
fertility problems in the proposed project area, the Govemment and the Bank agreed to limit the
scope of Loan 2353-BR to the completion and consolidation of new settlements at Cujubim,
Urupa and Machadinho, which had already been initiated. Plans to settle three other areas
originally included in the project were cancelled. It was also agreed that INCRA could
substitute the latter areas by alternative lands of better quality and in greater proximity to the
BR-364 highway. By the end of 1987, when no additional sustainable settlement areas had been
identified, GOB requested the Bank to amend the legal documents and use remaining loan
proceeds to finance priority activities initiated under Loans 2060-BR and 2116-BR (strengthening
of environmental protection, health and education, roads maintenance, agricultural research and
extension). The amendment was approved in June 1988, followed by a cancellation of US$27.0
million of loan proceeds in 1989, retroactive to May 1988. A second amendment was approved
in 1990, to enable the Government and the Bank to use part of the remaining proceeds of Loan
2353-BR to: (a) complete some key project activities in the settlement areas (e.g., agricultural



- 6 -
extension/research, health and education, and environmental control); and (b) provide bridge
financing to the then proposed Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management
Projects. At that time, POLONOROESTE's national coordination was shifted from SUDECO,
which was abolished as part of the Federal Government administrative reforms, to the Special
Programs Unit within the Secretariat for Regional Development.
15.       As part of the 1983 Special Action Program to accelerate disbursements for ongoing
projects in Brazil, Bank cost sharing under Loan 2353-BR was raised to 50% through March
1985, and lowered thereafter to 35% of project expenditures net of taxes. Effective in March
1986, cost sharing was again raised to 50%, for this and all other loans under the
POLONOROESTE Program. The increased share of Bank financing helped to mitigate, but did
not eliminate, project counterpart funding constraints.
16.       Project implementation was expected to take six years, but the Loan Closing date
was extended three times, to March 31, 1992. The last disbursement took place on August 18,
1992, bringing the total to US$36.8 million, or 56% of appraisal estimates. The final cost of
the project was US$62.0 million, about 34% of the appraisal estimate.
New Settlements Component
17.      (a) Land Use Planning. Settlement Layout. Demarcation and Titling Sub-Component.
These activities were to be carried out by INCRA. They included land use planning of about
900,000 ha, topographical survey and physical demarcation of about 15,000 individual properties
(25-40 ha each, totalling 570,000 ha) and of block forest reserves (totalling about 525,000 ha),
and titling of demarcated properties and reserves. INCRA was able to issue only 433 titles by
1992; a total of 4,640 properties and 105,000 ha of reserves were fully demarcated. The
sequence of settlement planning operations to be carried out by INCRA was not respected,
mainly due to the pressure created by the heavy and uncoordinated migration to Rond6nia.
Some sites originally chosen for new colonization projects were never utilized, because of poor
prior field evaluation of land use capabilities.  Settler turnover and illicit trading of lots
occurred, and parcel occupancy was low. The table below presents the status of the new
settlements supported by the project and clearly indicates that Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
projections were overly optimistic:



-7 -
Number of
families to            1988                       1992
Sites       be settled
by 1988     Number of   Number of   Number of    Number
(SAR        allocated       lots       allocated     of lots
projection)     plots      effectively     plots      effectively
occupied                  occupied
Machadinho        6,707         2,900          862         2,934       1,200
Cujubim 1/            -           509          170           503         200
Capitao           3,750             -            -
Sflvio 2/
Marmelo 2/        2,500             -            -
Urup land         2,074         1,205        1,089         1,204       1,204
II 2/
Total            15,031         4,614        2,121         4,641       2,604
1/ Identified as an alternative site in SAR.
2/ According to the SAR, these sites had been preliminarily identified as possibly having suitable soils and were being studied
in greater detail.
Source: INCRA and Municipality of Machadinho.
18.        The selection of settlers, implemented by INCRA with the participation of the
Superintendency for Rubber Development (SUDHEVEA), utilized the Land Statute and
INCRA's own selection norms, which had been developed for previous settlements. Proper
consideration for critical social and technical aspects, including agricultural skills, was not given.
19.       (b) NUAR and Satellite Infrastructure Sub-Component.  INCRA  was to be
responsible for the construction of a total of seven Rural Service Centers (NUARs), for every
1,700 to 2,500 new settlers. NUARs were to be built to serve as foci for commercial and social
activities. Of the 7 projected NUAR centers, 5 were actually constructed. In addition, the
project financed construction of staff housing (8), water and power supply systems (2), artesian
wells (56) and training centers.



- 8 -
20.        (c) Rural Roads Sub-Component. The implementation of this component was also
the responsibility of INCRA within the settlement areas, and of the State Highway Department
of Rond6nia (DER-RO) for municipal and state roads. It involved the design and construction
of 1,550 km of primary and 1,450 km of secondary access roads and the mechanized
maintenance of about 3,000 km of the road network. The standard of construction was generally
satisfactory and the unit costs were generally below appraisal estimates. Overall, about 2,600
km of roads have been constructed (primary 494 km and secondary 2,101 km), in addition to
6,300 km maintained. Although an important and quite successful project achievement, these
roads facilitated physical access to surrounding land and this contributed to the increase in
uncontrolled settlement and environmental degradation in the project area.
21.        (d) The Agricultural Research Sub-Component was to be complementary to ongoing
national research programs of the Agricultural Research Company of Brazil (EMBRAPA),
focussing on adaptation of the main annual and perennial crops and crop rotation and farming
systems to the specific conditions of the project area. The actual number of experiments,
demonstration units and observation units (plots within farmers' fields) and production of
technical and scientific publications reached or exceeded appraisal targets, and practically all
proposed physical research infrastructure was completed. However, the quality of this work was
limited by low salaries, which were responsible for high personnel turnover; limited experience
of the majority of researchers; health problems confronting researchers placed in the field; and
budget constraints.  As the fiscal deficit at the Federal level became increasingly severe,
EMBRAPA had difficulty in sustaining its activities, and continuity of research work under the
project was achieved only with additional financial participation by the State. Furthermore,
pursuit of a wide range of research interests inhibited more in-depth investigations, which may
have been more problem-oriented and/or in line with local development needs of the project.
22.       Despite these constraints, the adaptive research component did generate some
satisfactory results for immediate use by settlers. The main achievements concerned coffee
progenies adapted to the region; crops new to Rond6nia, such as guarana, black pepper, citrus,
avocado, mango and tangerines; agro-forestry systems including native forest species with
coffee, rubber and annual crops; and the selection of annual crops, improving planting dates and
seeds. Nevertheless, many of these findings could not be adopted by project farmers, who were
struggling to produce subsistence crops in the face of insurmountable transport, financing and
marketing difficulties. Limited research was conducted on pest and disease control, technical
aspects of forest product utilization by settlers, and wood processing by local industries.
Institutional coordination among the agencies responsible for research and extension, both to
determine farmers' needs and disseminate research results, was poor at the beginning of the
project but improved in later years.
23.        (e) Agricultural and Forestry Extension Sub-Component. The project financed
extension services to assist project beneficiaries in improving agricultural production and forest
conservation techniques and in cultivating ecologically suitable perennial crops. The State
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association of Rond6nia - ASTER-RO (later



- 9 -
EMATER-RO) was responsible for agricultural and forestry extension, with the support of the
Executive Commission Cocoa (CEPLAC), and SUDHEVEA for rubber. The extension service
also organized farmer and project staff training courses, assisted farmers in obtaining credit, and
participated in the drying and storage (including community organization) component. The
Rond6nia State Forestry Institute (IEF), established in 1986, also participated in forest extension.
24.       About 1,750 producers per year, with a peak of 3,150 farmers in 1987, were
assisted by EMATER-RO extensionists. Specific training courses in subjects such as perennial
crop planting and cultural practices, farm administration and soil conservation were offered to
some 1,350 participants (50% more than the appraisal target), with some farmers taking more
than one course and including farmers also receiving technical assistance at the farm level.
EMATER also supported the research work in the establishment of about 200 demonstration
units (30% more than the appraisal estimate) for crops such as coffee, rubber, black pepper,
guaranA and other tropical fruits and for improved practices of soil conservation and management
of small animals.  However, technical assistance deteriorated after 1988, due mainly to
extremely limited resources, lack of incentives and low salaries. Furthermore, due to the
characteristics of the three project sites, especially the distance to urban centers and the
extremely limited infrastructure, as well as very high staff turnover rate, maintaining continuity
of extension staff in the areas was difficult.
25.       Extension performance was also hindered by such constraints as: (i) lack of adequate
coordination with, or poor performance by, other agencies responsible for complementary
services (e.g., community organization, marketing, land regularization and rural credit); (ii)
scarce and often untimely arrival of operating funds; and (iii) the limited prior experience of
most extensionists with the climate and agronomic conditions of the project area. However,
extensionists, most of whom lived in the communities, assisted and worked very closely with
farmers, were instrumental in promoting perennial crops and improving farmer incomes. When
lack of credit became a major constraint, the extension service proposed and implemented a
system of credit-in-kind, which made possible the introduction of perennial and other higher-
value crops. By assuming responsibilities originally assigned to other agencies, the extension
service was instrumental in developing community organizations and promoting the adoption of
simplified storage and processing methods. Rural extension was also responsible during the later
years of the project for farmers' experimentation with diversification into mixed cropping
systems (including viable new crops such as timber and fruit trees), crop rotation, enrichment
of fallow land and improved silvipastoral systems.
26.       (f) Input Supply Sub-Component. The project envisaged the establishment of three
nurseries for the production of fruit tree seedlings and seven small input supply posts. The
elimination of CODARON, the implementing agency, early in the project caused a major delay
in the implementation of this sub-component. Two nurseries were established in Urupa and
Machadinho only in 1986/87, operated by the Secretariat of Agriculture of Rond6nia (SEAGRI-
RO). They produced approximately 2.8 million seedlings which were distributed to the farmers
through the credit-in-kind system. However, no data are available about the seedling survival



- 10 -
rate or the number of farmers who benefitted from this activity. Following the project's
restructuring, loan funds were utilized to finance modest quantities of seeds (171 tons), fertilizers
(79 tons), cattle (565) and small ruminants.
27.       (g) Crop Drying and Storage Sub-Component. This activity was originally to be
implemented by CODARON, and later by the State Warehouse and Silo Company (CAGERO).
Seven warehouses (ca. 2,000 tons) were to be constructed, each with a 5 ton/hr grain dryer to
be located in the NUARs. Only two of these large units were constructed under the project.
It was realized during implementation that storage could be more cheaply provided to farmers
by constructing smaller and simpler structures out of local or prefabricated material. The Bank
and GOB decided in 1988, therefore, to restructure this sub-component. In addition to the two
large units already constructed, one community warehouse of 600 tons was financed. The
project, under the amendment of 1990, also financed various items of equipment for other
communal warehouses in the State and trained about 36 staff as warehouse assistants.
28.       The drying and storage model foreseen at appraisal did not meet the requirements
of the settlers, and even the new approach of the community warehouse had only a very limited
effect in improving farmers' prices. Better storage, when and where adopted, could not
compensate for distance to regional markets, low prices for most crops and the limited impact
of the minimum product price (support) program.
29.       (h) Social Services Sub-Components. The Social Service Sub-Components were to
be implemented by the State Secretariat of Education (SEC-RO), State Secretariat of Health
(SES-RO), State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action (SETRAPS-RO), and INCRA, under the
coordination of the PCU. They included: (a) Education: construction/fumishing of one 4-
classroom school per NUAR and 225 single classroom schools (1 per satellite and 155 in
surrounding settlement areas); (b) Health: construction/equipping of a health post in each NUAR
(type II) and satellite (type I); expansion of two health posts into health centers; provision of
vehicles for each health center and training of 115 health professionals and auxiliaries and about
70 rural health workers; and (c) Social organization: establishment of 750 settler groups and
equipping of one social extension office/NUAR, provision of vehicles for social extension,
training for about 35 social extensionists and operating costs.
30.       Considering the overall reduction in the project area and consequent reorientation
of the project, these sub-components reached their targets. About 89% of the total amount
estimated at appraisal was actually spent, primarily on infrastructure, and 223 one-classroom and
3 combined primary and secondary schools were built. However, because of greater than
expected population pressure, difficulties in recruitment of teachers and limited educational
efficiency (a greater number of students repeating school years), facilities continued to operate
at a very intensive rate. Following amendment of the Loan, about 155 health posts have been
constructed in and outside the settlement area, doubling the appraisal target.



- 11 -
31.       The Social Organization Sub-Component financed infrastructure and the services of
technical staff of SETRAPS-RO. The objective was to promote the establishment of farmers'
associations which would participate in a range of community activities, such as construction and
maintenance of access roads, school and health post maintenance, agricultural extension groups,
and nutrition and health education. Farmers' initial response to this activity was poor. In 1985,
EMATER-RO, which was already in charge of assisting farmers on production-related activities,
also assumed responsibility for fostering community organization. Some 47 formal community-
based rural organizations were formed in the project area by EMATER-RO.
32.       Appraisal assumptions about the kinds of activities in which farmers' associations
and community groups would be interested in participating proved to be wrong, mainly because
farmers viewed infrastructure construction and maintenance as Government functions. On the
other hand, EMATER's approach of organizing around themes which would have a direct and
measurable impact on incomes (e.g., storage, joint marketing/transport and processing of
agricultural products) elicited an immediate and positive response from farmers.
Forestry Development and Control Component.
33.       This component was originally to be implemented by the Brazilian Forestry
Development Institute (IBDF). The activities envisaged called for: (a) forest inventories
(570,000 ha of individual plots and 525,000 ha of agglomerated block forest reserves); (b)
preparation of management plans and support for the rational use of forestry resources (timber
marketing study and establishment of a pilot sawmill); and (c) institutional strengthening of the
implementing institutions (establishment of two national park bases with related control posts)
and the forestry extension and control activities.
34.       In relation to (a) and (b) above, project results were very disappointing, in spite of
IBDF's effort to prepare regulations to govern block forest reserves, develop alternative models
for their administration and draft statutes for rubber tappers' associations. The project was faced
with delays in defining operational responsibilities (INCRA-IBDF operational agreement of
November 1985), confused and conflicting ownership of reserves (debatable legal status of
reserves and continuous encroachment by intruders), and lack of settler interest in resources
located in difficult areas (protected areas, mountains and marshlands) which had no direct or
accessible economic value.
35.       Nevertheless, Loan 2353-BR  did contribute to raising public awareness of
environmental problems and to strengthening various new agencies, e.g., the Forestry Police
Battalion (FPB) in 1985, the State Forestry Institute (IEF) in 1986, the State Council of
Environment (CONSEMA) in 1986 and the State Secretariat of Environment (SEMARO) in
1987. The project financed the strengthening of IEF's forestry extension service, with the
construction and equipment of three extension offices and two bases with related control posts
for the protection of natural parks in Costa Marques and Ariquemes. In addition, five IEF
nurseries were established in the project area, producing 12 million/year of natural forestry



- 12 -
seedlings and about 500,000/year of rubber seedlings. After project restructuring in 1988, funds
were also used for financing IEF and SEMARO operating costs (extension, training of 22
extension agents, environmental enforcement and and control activities).
Preparatory Activities for New Regional Development Projects in the Northwest
Component
36.       This component financed two studies during the period 1984-87: (a) a study on
perennial crops with emphasis on regional species; and (b) a contribution to the Development
Plan of Acre State. The study on perennial crops was coordinated by the Ministry of
Agriculture and was composed of a number of experiments on typical farm site conditions. Due
to personnel turnover and institutional reorganization, the results of this study have not been
implemented.  The Acre study was approved in view  of the urgency of defining an
environmentally and socially sound development strategy for this State. Project funds were used
to finance the coordination team for this study, including consultant costs to oversee the
preparation of the study. From 1988 onwards, project funds were also used to finance the
preparation of the Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects, which
were appraised and approved by the Bank in 1992.
37.       Activities Extended to Mato Grosso. Following GOB and Bank agreements in 1990,
some project activities were extended to Mato Grosso to consolidate certain activities which
needed to be continued after the closing of Loan 2116-BR, including: (a) improvement of
infrastructure; (b) agro-forestry development; (c) storage improvement; (d) construction of rural
schools; and (e) special activities and administration. Almost all targets agreed during the 1988
and 1990 project revisions were met.
Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation Component
38.       At the State level, project management was the responsibility of the PCU within
SEPLAN-RO. Implementation of agricultural activities and infrastructure was to be undertaken
by CODARON, a Rond6nia Territory (later State) public enterprise created in 1980, to substitute
for the Secretariat of Agriculture and other local institutions and thereby simplify execution
arrangements.  A Federal POLONOROESTE Coordination Unit was established within
SUDECO, serving as the Secretariat to an Inter-Ministerial Council for the Program.
CODARON constructed (under contract) roads and the rural service centers, including schools
and health posts, and reconstructed existing roads. Problems arising from competition with State
sectoral institutions resulted in the abolition of CODARON in 1985, at which time these sectoral
institutions assumed direct responsibility for project execution. However, the State PCU in
Porto Velho was not given sufficient authority to coordinate the project effectively, suffered
seven changes of project manager, and had to rely on 14 other agencies once CODARON was
abolished. Program management also remained over-centralized in Brasflia, with many decisions
depending on SUDECO. The Inter-Ministerial Council itself barely operated and, although
SUDECO controlled the flow of POLONOROESTE funds to Rond6nia, it was not strong enough



- 13 -
to resolve problems that had to be decided at higher levels of the Federal Government. Finally,
those Federal inistitutions which were directly responsible for execution of some project activities
(i.e., INCRA, FUNAI, IBDF) operated very independently of both SUDECO and the State, and
in general performed poorly. Decentralization of many environmental activities over the life of
the project, from Federal to State institutions, improved the situation.
39.        Total Project Costs. In U.S. dollar terms the total project cost, recalculated at
US$62.0 million, was 66% less than that estimated at appraisal, due to the 73% reduction of the
project area. Aggregate loan disbursements, equivalent to US$36.8 million, represented about
56% of the original loan amount and financed 59% of the actual project costs.
Project Results
40.        General. The project failed to achieve the main objective of settling 15,000 farm
families in the project area. Soil fertility constraints in most of the project area allowed the
precarious settlement of only 4,640 families, or about 31% of the project target. The situation
was aggravated by the fact that other settlers, attracted to the region by the prospect of obtaining
a titled property, also invaded block forest reserves and those areas originally expected to be
settled but later excluded from the project. With little official support, these additional settlers
pursued mainly slash-and-burn techniques for annual cropping.
41.       In the three settled areas which remained after project restructuring (Machadinho,
Cujubim and Urupa), the project established a reasonable physical and social infrastructure, on
a scale commensurate with the number of settlers.  Specifically, the project significantly
improved the road network in the most remote settled areas, facilitating the marketing of farm
products; constructed (under-utilized) storage and crop drying facilities; and provided schools
and health posts in the new settled areas and, at a later stage of implementation, introduced the
same facilities into previously unattended rural communities outside the original project area.
42.        The results with respect to raising the incomes and living standards of target farmers
were largely unattained. The project failed to foster sustainable development based on the
cultivation of perennial crops, because of the poor quality of soils in the three settlement areas,
lack of adequate agricultural credit, limited marketing possibilities and deterioration of the prices
of the main perennial crops. As a result, the average income for a family of six was estimated
at completion to be US$1,600/year, or 27% of the appraisal estimate.
43.        When the Project was launched, Rond6nia was a two year-old State, which had
converted from a Federal Territory to statehood only in late 1981. The new State's institutional
base was still quite weak. Through the project, key institutions were strengthened (i.e., a State
forestry institute and forest military police, a State Secretariat for the Environment and, most
recently, a State Land Institute have been created and state agricultural extension services
strengthened), and a large number of personnel at all levels are now trained in rural project



- 14 -
planning, administration, monitoring and evaluation. These institutional developments may
ultimately have a wider impact than the project itself. The project institutions, drawing on the
lessons learned during implementation, should now be better able to design and implement future
Government policies and investment projects for sustainable development and environmental
protection, including the Rond6nia Natural Resource Management Project, recently approved
by the Bank.
44.       Production. At appraisal it was estimated that the project would help to expand the
agricultural frontier, with emphasis on perennial crops, increasing yields based on the adoption
of adapted agronomic practices, improved genetic material and greater use of fertilizers.
However, during implementation, soil fertility in much of the project area was found to be much
poorer than expected at appraisal, resulting in lower yields. Limited application of inputs, as
consequence of the severe lack of credit financing, further affected yields of perennial crops.
45.       At appraisal it was estimated that the total area to be cropped within the six
settlements would reach 99,000 ha at full development (excluding the planting of improved
pasture). Based on 1992 EMATER-RO data, it is estimated that the total cropped area under
the project actually reached about 27,480 ha (excluding pastures), or about 28% of the appraisal
estimate. About 32 % of the area actually cultivated is under coffee, 7% under rubber, 11%
under guarana and other fruits and 50%  under annual crops.  Coffee assumed more
predominance than expected at appraisal, and in general yields for all crops were below those
anticipated. In addition, the international price of coffee, which accounted for about 65 % of the
area planted with perennial crops, reached only about 35% of that estimated at appraisal.
46.       Employment Generation. It was assumed at appraisal that the development of
perennial crops would create, at full development, an incremental demand for about 29,000 man-
years of family and hired labor annually. However, based on a recalculation of labor
requirements at completion, only 6,925 man-years of labor opportunity were created (24% of
the appraisal estimates). This was due to the lower than expected number of farmers assisted
by the project, and the consequent reduction in cropped area.
47.       Economic Rate of Return. The project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at
appraisal was estimated at 26%, including the net value added by NUAR inhabitants employed
in non-agricultural sectors. Excluding these urban benefits, the ERR was estimated at 24%.
The ERR of the project was not recalculated in detail at completion because there was
insufficient data on actual yearly on-farm investments and incremental operating costs for the
main farm models. However, considering that the total project investment costs in the three
settlement areas (excluding all expenditures for health, education and social organizations, and
expenditures outside the three settlements after project restructuring) were US$42.2 million,
while the annual gross value of production at full development was only US$3.5 million, it is
likely that an ERR recalculation would be close to zero, if not negative. This is due to the lower
number of project beneficiaries, lower productivity, general price increases for farm inputs, and
a sharply lower real prices for the project's main perennial crops (especially coffee).



- 15 -
48.       Financial Performance. At appraisal it was estimated that, at full development, the
weighted average annual farm family income would increase four-fold, reaching about US$6,000
from an average of US$1,500, which was assumed to be the average family income of field
workers waiting to be allocated their own plot. At appraisal three farm models were identified
as the most representative of the future with-project situation. In reality, only one of those
models reflected the actual situation in the project area at completion. This is the model based
on annual crops and coffee. The actual recalculated family income is about US$1,650 per
family per year, which is only marginally (10%) above the without-project income level, and
therefore no recalculation of the financial rate of return was carried out.
49.       Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery. It was assumed that, at full development, at least
40% of INCRA's investment costs for survey, demarcation, titling and infrastructure would be
recovered. It was also estimated that at full development the Sales Tax (ICM) would have
produced an annual revenue for the State of Rond6nia of US$9.8 million. Finally, export taxes
on coffee were estimated to generate about US$6.6 million/year at full development, while rural
social security revenues would generate some US$2.0 million/year. In the event, no recovery
has been authorized by INCRA on the settlement and infrastructure costs of the project, which
is probably reasonable given the extremely low average family incomes achieved (para. 48).
Export taxes on the basis of US$25 per 60 kg bag of coffee and cocoa beans have yielded about
US$3.25 million per year in revenues to the Federal Government. The rural social security tax
is now estimated at about US$0.07 million, and the ICM at about US$0.5 million.
Project Risks
50.       The main project risks were rightly identified at appraisal as being: (a) the
possibility of having lower quality soils than in other areas of central Rond6nia; (b) the
institutional capacity of the three main executing agencies (INCRA, SUDHEVEA, IBDF) in
accomplishing their tasks; (c) the technical risks associated with growing non-traditional
perennial crops; (d) the risk of expansion of areas under extensive use as a result of a gradual
concentration of land ownership, if farmers were not properly selected and provided with
adequate financial resources; and (e) negative project impact on the Amazon environment as a
result of settlement. However, the magnitude of the growing spontaneous migration into the
Northwest Region and the project's possible contribution to this phenomenon, as well as the full
extent of Brazil's fiscal and economic crisis, were underestimated at appraisal.
Project Sustainability
51.       The staffing of key project institutions (e.g., IEF, Forestry Military Police,
SEMARO, EMATER) was created, maintained or increased. Roads, school, health posts,
storage and the basic infrastructure of project executing agencies were expanded, but incremental
tax revenues received by the State and Federal Governments (para. 49) are not sufficient to
maintain these activities and the productive support services in the new settlements.
Environmental activities to protect conservation units in the whole POLONOROESTE Program



- 16 -
area are dependent on scarce and fluctuating budgetary allocations, but the State and Federal
Governments are making strong efforts to maintain these investments, with assistance under the
follow-on Rondonia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects.
52.        For individual farmers, sustainability of agricultural production at farm level is
dependent on success in establishing suitable farming systems and cropping patterns. In general,
this requires mixed farming, including inter-cropping of perennial crops and agro-forestry.
Farmers who do not have secure land tenure, investment capital and technical assistance continue
to rely on slash-and-burn cultivation of annual crops. Under this system, farmers deforest part
of their plots, clearing by burning, and then use the soil fertility accumulated under the forest
canopy for a few years. Thereafter, to maintain yields of annual crops, even with relatively
good soils, they need to leave part of the land fallow and continue deforesting other parts. This
system is not sustainable within the limits of the farmer's plot, unless the farm is large enough
to provide sufficient income by cultivating at any given time only a fraction of the land.
Deforestation of soils without sustainable development potential also contributes to soil erosion
and siltation of rivers. Land clearing in the Amazon may also have detrimental effects on the
region's hydrological balance, the earth's ozone layer and the preservation of biological
diversity. The extent to which the project itself may have contributed to these effects cannot be
quantified.
Bank Performance
53.        The Bank's involvement, measured in terms of staff inputs throughout the life of the
project, has exceeded the average for Bank agricultural projects. Identification, preparation,
appraisal and negotiations extended over a period of three years and absorbed a total of about
157 Bank, FAO/CP and consultants' staff weeks. Nonetheless, in retrospect the land use
capability information used was clearly inadequate for project design purposes. This fact was
the main cause of failure of the project settlement activities.
54.        A total of 13 multi-person supervision missions were fielded over a period of 9
years, for a total of about 126 staff weeks used during project implementation. During the last
two years of project implementation, significant additional resources were devoted to supervision
in the context of preparation activities for the Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource
Management Projects. Many of these missions served the purpose not only of informing the
Bank about progress in project execution, but also of providing technical assistance to the
POLONOROESTE coordination and implementing agencies, and helped to obtain essential
decisions/actions at higher levels of Government. However, project coordinators report that,
on occasion, insufficient staff continuity (especially in the use of consultants), resulted in
inadequate follow-up by the Bank on problems identified by these supervision missions. The
Bank's decision (i) early in 1985 to arrest the development of new settlement areas; (ii) later,
to use loan savings to provide continuity in implementation of critical activities - particularly in
the social sectors and environmental components - and to serve as bridge financing for the new
Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects; and (iii) to increase the



- 17 -
percentage of the cost of the project financed by the loan and to extend the loan closing date by
about two years, all proved to be sensible. The Bank also demonstrated reasonable flexibility
in adapting the project to changing needs during execution (such as experimentation with the
relatively successful in-kind credit scheme).
Borrower Performance
55.       The Borrower closely cooperated with the World Bank, FAO/CP mission and
consultants during the preparation and appraisal of the project, and was generally supportive to
supervision missions and open to suggestions for improvements. The recent political and
administrative changes at federal and state levels associated with a considerable personnel
turnover greatly affected the quality of the information and data assembled for this completion
report. As already experienced in other projects under the POLONOROESTE program, the
Borrower delayed the recruitment of technical staff and the procurement of important civil works
and equipment, thereby slowing implementation of the productive components of the project and
compromising its overall effectiveness. The Borrower did not provide the necessary counterpart
funding for the Project. Although the prolonged economic crisis and associated fiscal deficit
were contributing factors, this must ultimately be attributed to a decision regarding its priorities,
inasmuch as the Borrower did allocate substantially greater expenditures to other investment
programs during the same period. Moreover, even within the level of counterpart funding that
was made available for POLONOROESTE, greater emphasis was given in the early project
years to the completion of physical infrastructure (paving of BR-364, and feeder roads) than to
essential agricultural support services and environmental protection. By project completion, the
Borrower had complied with most of the mid-term evaluation agreements and the main loan
covenants, although with some delays, except for those relating to the provision of agricultural
credit and adequate counterpart financing. The environmental covenants were implemented, but
the maintenance and effectiveness of protection services are not yet adequate.  Given the
complex organization and management structure of the POLONOROESTE Program, and the
limited decision-making authority of the Federal and (particularly) State coordination units, the
Borrower managed the project about as well as could be expected. Within the limitations
imposed by chronic budgetary constraints, staff resources were reasonably deployed and trained.
Project Relationships
56.       The Bank-Borrower relationship, satisfactory until the end of 1984, became strained
during 1985 when, based on the critical findings of the November 1984 mid-term evaluation
mission, the Bank informally suspended loan disbursements and conditioned the resumption of
its financing on the results of corrective measures agreed with the Government. Disbursements
were normalized in August 1985, after the Bank determined that the Government had complied
with the key measures. From that time onwards, apart from occasional differences, a fruitful
dialogue was re-established between the Government and the Bank, and among the implementing
agencies.



- 18 -
Consulting Services
57.       Relatively few consultant services were utilized by the project.
(a)  UNDP Training Program. The project successfully established a training program
in SUDECO for the Northwest Region, although many of the benefits were later lost
when SUDECO was abolished. It was also instrumental in creating a training
capacity in the States of Rond6nia, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul and Goias.
(b)  FAO/UNDP BRA 87/037.  From  the beginning of 1988, technical assistance
provided under this FAO/UNDP program was financed through Loan 2353-BR.
Much of this assistance was devoted to the Phase I and II POLONOROESTE
projects (Loans 2060-BR and 2116-BR) and made only a limited contribution to this
project. An FAO/UNDP/Government evaluation of December 1989 concluded that
the program's contribution to project implementation was very limited and therefore
this program was terminated.
(c)  CETEC Soil Survey. During 1984/85, CETEC carried out soil surveys on the
project sites. Conclusions were discouraging; in fact, large parts of the settlement
sites were found to be ill-suited to agriculture due to poor soils and topographical
factors. This led to an agreement between GOB, World Bank and INCRA not to
expand the settlement areas under the project.
(d)  Assistance to PLANACRE. IPEA and other individual consultancies assisted in the
preparation of the Development Plan of Acre State (PLANACRE), in an attempt to
define an environmentally and socially sound development strategy for this state.
This information has been used by the State of Acre in defining its development
strategy.
Lessons Learned
58.       The following are the main lessons from project implementation which may be
relevant for the design of other similar operations.
(a)  A settlement project in frontier areas, known to have a very fragile natural
environment, should never be undertaken in the absence of solid technical
information regarding land capability and soil fertility. This project should not have
proceeded before basic agro-ecological zoning work had been carried out, and more
detailed soil studies performed for each of the specific settlement areas which were
planned. The fact that it did proceed was the main cause of failure of the project
settlement activities.



- 19 -
(b)  Large-scale settlement schemes in tropical virgin forests should be carefully
evaluated and, if possible, avoided. In any case, a full environmental impact
assessment should be carried out during preparation in order to determine the
complementary actions needed to ensure a proper balance between land development
and natural resource protection. In the case of this project, more realism was
warranted concerning the pull-effect into the Region of a project promising
essentially free land to settlers in the context of declining land availability elsewhere
in Brazil.
(c)  When agricultural development depends on the availability of credit to farmers, a
careful analysis should be made as to whether such credit actually exists in quantity
and terms which are suitable to the project, and whether project farmers will be
considered eligible by the banking system. If not, the project should not proceed.
In this case, there was sufficient evidence of likely credit constraints for small
farmers, including indications of early difficulties under the first two
POLONOROESTE agricultural operations, to have warranted more caution.
(d)  Institutional capacity should be carefully analyzed during preparation and appraisal,
and the magnitude and sequence of project interventions planned accordingly. When
a multitude of actions are required, as is frequently the case with new settlement
efforts, a project should establish an area entity with suitable implementation
capacity and authority to ensure that all activities are implemented in a timely
manner, whether by state executing agencies or the private sector.
Proiect Documentation and Data
59.        The SAR provided a suitable framework for the Bank and the Borrower to
implement the project.  Although the PCU  should have maintained complete project
implementation records, not all data and information relevant to the preparation of a PCR were
readily available. Implementing institutions generally did not maintain records and data to serve
as a basis for a broad ex-post evaluation, but rather for short-term monitoring of project results
against targets.



- 20 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Part I
1.        The factual information regarding project and country data was prepared by the
participating institutions and included in working papers prepared by the Project Coordination
Units of the Project in Rond6nia and Mato Grosso and the National Coordination of the Program
in September 1992. The data were discussed and cross-checked in the field during FAO/CP
missions which assisted in the preparation of Parts I and III of this PCR.
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
2.        The Bank was heavily involved during project preparation and implementation and
was in most cases perceptive of local difficulties. However, during preparation and early stages
of implementation, the project relied heavily on INCRA, at the cost of State, National
Coordination and local communities' involvement. A greater participation of the State, the
National Coordination and the local communities in project design could have helped in a better
understanding of soil limitations before starting settlement activities, and in early implementation
of environmental protection activities. At the time of suspension of disbursements in 1985, the
Bank should have been more selective and should have continued the disbursements for
environmental protection components of the project. The restructuring of the project, after the
reduction of the project area due to poor soils quality, was an important decision to ensure the
strengthening of environmental protection activities, the development of agro-forestry production
systems, enhanced protection of Amerindian areas and improved implementation of health and
education components in other parts of the POLONOROESTE Program area. However, more
emphasis should have been given under the restructured Loan 2353-BR to the promotion of
sustainable agricultural development in the good soils of central Rond6nia.
3.        The Bank's agreement to extend the project area to Mato Grosso and to provide
bridge financing between the conclusion of Loans 2060-BR and 2116-BR, and the approval of
the Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects was crucial to ensure
continuity of key environmental protection, applied research on perennial crops consortia and
agro-forestry, sustainable productive activities, social infrastructure and services and maintaining
the State staff teams for the implementation of the new projects. Finally, when projects include
large technical assistance components, like the FAO/UNDP project under Loan 2353-BR, the
Bank should ensure that the State and Federal Governments participate actively in their
implementation, and, if problems arise, be ready to rectify them promptly or cancel the technical
assistance.



- 21 -
4.        The major lessons learned are:
(a)  Bank-Borrower relations should be based on cooperation and mutual agreements.
Making unilateral decisions should always be avoided because, apart from
deteriorating project relationships, this could also adversely affect project
implementation.
(b)  When Federal agencies are involved in the project, the Bank should also take into
consideration and involve fully the State where the investments take place, to ensure
continuity of project implementation after initial investments are made. In addition,
the involvement of the local authorities and communities at the early stages of
project design and implementation could help in making more realistic assumptions
on project objectives and targets.
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
5.   The performance of the Borrower was affected by the economic crisis affecting the country
at the beginning of project implementation. Lack of availability of counterpart funds for the
project and the lack of agricultural credit jeopardized overall implementation of the project.
These limitations, coupled with limitations on the hiring and maintenance of high-level staff at
the field level, contributed to the low institutional performance. For the rural extension
component, this affected the overall impact of the production-based components.
6.   The project also suffered from poor inter-agency coordination, high tumover of personnel
and weak monitoring of project activities. On the other hand, some of the problems created by
the New Settlements Project increased the awareness of environmental problems and the need
to strengthen state institutions for environmental protection and enforcement. These new
institutions and the large number of local staff that were trained during project implementation
constitute a good base for the implementation of new projects in both the States of Rond6nia and
Mato Grosso.
7.   The major lessons leamed were:
(a)  The soil studies/agroecological zoning exercise should be conducted well before
implementation of agricultural investments.
(b)  When there are shortfalls of counterpart funds, priorities should be established to
ensure that at least key components of the project are implemented, instead of the
whole program being affected.



- 22 -
(c)  To avoid project implementation problems developing into main bottlenecks for
overall project performance, the organization and management of the project should
include strong monitoring and evaluation systems.
(d)  The project implementation capacity should be maintained to ensure the achievement
of project objectives and targets.  It is essential to find ways of raising staff
motivation and reducing personnel turnover.



- 23 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table I: IBRD LOANS REl-EVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan                           Year of               Purpose of                        Status
Approval              Project
--  Loan 2060-BR               1981                  Designed to upgrade               Closed March 1990.  PCR
Agricultural                                     existing agricultural             N' 9519 issued March 1991
Development and                                  settlements in central
Environmental                                    Rond6nia and to
Protection                                       strengthen
Project                                          environmental
(Northwest I)                                    protection and
ecological research in
the POLONOROESTE area
Loan 2061-BR               1981                  Designed to improve               Closed June 1988.  PCR N'
Northwest                                        and maintain health               8469 issued March 1990
Health Project                                   conditions in the
settlement areas of
Rond6nia
--  Loan 2062-NR               1981                  The centerpiece of                Closed September 1988.
Northwest                                        POLONOROESTE was the              PCR N 9504 issued April
Highway Project                                  completion of a                   1991
highway - BR-364 -
linking Cuiaba (the
capital of the State
of Mato Grosso) and
Porto VeLho (the
capital of the State
of Rond6nia)
Loan 2116-BR               1982                  Consolidation of rural            Closed December 1988.
Mato Grosso                                      settlements and                   PCR N' 9382 issued in
Rural                                            implementation of                 January 1991
Development                                      environmental
Project                                          protection measures
--  Loan 3444-BR               1992                  Provide regulatory                Under implementation
Rond6nia                                         framework for
Natural                                          sustainable
Resource                                         development.  Support
Management                                       environmental
Project                                          protection and
sustainable
development activities
according to agro-
ecological zoning
Loan 3492-BR               1992                  Provide reguLatory                Under implementation
Mato Grosso                                      framework for
Natural                                          sustainabLe
Resource                                         development.  Support
Management                                       environmental
Project                                          protection and
sustainable
development activities
according to agro-
ecological zoning
Comnents.  In 1980, in recognition of the growing socio-economic problems caused by accelerating migration,
the Brazilian Government launched a program of major investments in the Northwest agricultural frontier
areas of Rond6nia and Mato Grosso. The Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil (POLONOROESTE)
aimed to absorb the human influx in an orderly and sustainable manner.  POLONOROESTE activities have been
supported by five complementary Bank loans including the New Settlements Project (Northwest III).



- 24 -
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED. REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                          Date Planned            Actual Date
Identification                 November 1979          November 1979
Preparation 1/                 November 1980          November 1980 1/
Appraisal Mission                October 1982            Jan/Feb 1983
Loan Negotiations                                     September 1983
Board Approval                               -           October 1983
Loan Signature                               -        November 1983
Loan Eftectiveness                           -         February 1984 2/
Loan Closing                   December 1989              March 1992 3/
Final Loan Dishursement             June 1990             August 1992
1/ Preparation made with FAO/CP assistance.
2/ With retroactive financing starting November 3. 1982.
3/ The Loan Closing Date was extended three times: to December 31, 1990, March 31, 1991 and
March 31, 1992.
C. Loan Disbursement
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(tUSS millions)
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY          FY      FY      FY      FY      FY
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990   1991    1992   1993
Appraisal    4.20   16.2   26.7  36.7   48.2  58.2   65.20              -       -       -
Estimate
Actual 1/                 3.65   10.3   14.1   18.1   23.79    26.3   30.40   36.34   36.84
Actual as                  14    28    29    31        36      40      46      55      56
% of
Estimate
1/ Including payments up to final dishursement. The final disbursement against the loan was made on
August 18, 1992.



- 25 -
D. Project Implementation
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Rondonia:
Estimate             PCR
Components/items                  Unit                                    % orf
_________________      -           ~~~~~Appraisal  PCR      Appraisal
A. Land Use
Planning                           '000 ha              900        305           34
Survey and demarcation              property         15,000      4,641            31
Property Titling                    title            15,000        433             3
Forest Reserve Demarcation          '000 ha             525        105            20
B. Rural Roads
Construction of Primary Roads       km                1,550        494            32
Construction of Secondary Roads     km                1,450      2,101           145
Maintenance                        km                 3,000      6,330           211
C. NUAR and Satellite Infrastructure
Construction Office                 unit                  7          5            71
Construction Guest House            unit                  7          5            71
Construction Staff Housing          set                   7          8           114
Water Supply System                 unit                  7           2           29
Power Supply Network                unit                  7           2           29
Airstrip                            unit                  4           1           25
Construction Training Center        unit                  4           3           75
Artesian Well                       unit                 71         56            79
D. Research
Construction Substation             unit                  1           1          100
Demonstration Plots                plot                 150        197           131
Observation Unit                   plot                    -       135
Number of Trials                    n.a.                   -        94              -
E. Farmers' Technical Assistance
Construction Office                 unit                  7           3           43
Training Staff/Farmers              participants        860       1,358          158
Farmers Assisted                    farmers          15,000      1,741             12
Rubber production:
Technical assistance               '000 ha               18           2.6         14
Extensionist Training              participant           80          0
Construction Office/Housing         unit                  7           3           43
Nursery Equipment                   set                               3             -
Consulting                          man-month            30          0
Cocoa production:
Distribution of seeds              '000                          1,274              -
Planting/Maintenance                ha                6,000        849            14
Technical Assistance                farmer              600        345            58
Construction Office                 unit                              1             -
Construction Dormitory              unit                             4
Construction Sales Facility         unit                              1



- 26 -
Estimate              PCR
Components/Items                   Unit                                     % of
Appraisal     PCR        Appraisal
F. Crop Drying and Storage
Construction Warehouse and Drver     unit                   7           2           100
Equipment tor Community              sets                             10             29
Warehouses
G. Input supply
Fruit Tree Nurseries                 unit                   3          2             67
Seed and Basic Seed Distribution     ton                    *        171
Production Seedling                  '000                   *      2,820
H. Forestry Development/Control
Plot Surveys                        '000 ha               570        105             18
Construction Forestry Nursery        unit                   n.a.        6
Construction Office                  unit                   7         25           357
Training Staff                       participants          26         22             85
Construction Control Posts           unit                   3           3           100
Establishment Park Bases             unit                   2           2           100
Timber Marketing Studies            study                   1           -             -
Construction Pilot Sawmill           unit                   2           1            50
I. Social Services
Construction Secondary School        unit                   7           3            43
Construction One-classroom School    unit                 223        225            100
Construction Health Post II          unit                   7         23           329
Construction Health Post I           unit                  70        132           189
Expansion Health Post II            unit                    2           1           50
Establishment of Settler Groups      group               750           0
J. Special Activities
Consulting                          man-month              36           n.a.          -
Demonstration Units MT              unit                   60         54            90
Demonstration Units RO              unit                   79         43            54
Comments:    * Indicates that no specific target was set at appraisal.
NUAR's health and education infrastructure is presented under Part I (Social Services).



- 27 -
Mato Grosso: 1/
Components/ltems                             Tarte                PCR %
of
Units    Planned   Achieved   Planned
A. Improvement of Infrastructure
Maintenance of Roads                               km         564       404        72
Water Distribution System                           m       3,500      3,310       95
Water Distribution Branches                        no.        150        155       103
Wells Drilling                                      m         150        102        a8
Water Treatment Plant                              no.          1         1        100
B. Agroforestry Development
Agricultural Research Experiments                  no.         65        83        97
Extension: Farmers Visited                         no.      5,980      5,470       91
Rural Women                                 no.      3,270      2,400       73
Farmers Groups                              no.        570       380        67
Forestry Development Equipment                    sets          3         3        100
C. Storage Improvement
Warehouse Improvement                              ton       3,000     3,000       100
D. Education Improvement
Rural Schools                                      no.          2         2        100
E. Special Activities
Support to Agroecological Zoning                  study         1         1        100
Pilot Zone in Jauru                               study         1         1        100
Removal of Encroachers in Zoro Reserve            operst.       1         1        100
1/ After extension of Project area in 1990.



- 28 -
E. Project Costs and Financing
Tahle 5: PROJECT COSTS
(t1S$ million)
Category Item                      SAR         (%)        Actual        (Sto)
Estimates 1/
A. Production Infrastructure
Mapping, surveying, demarcation and titling      8.7         6.0         0.3          0.5
Rural roads                                     29.1        21.0         9.2         14.8
NUAR and satellite infrastructure                7.1         5.0        18.7         30.2
Agricultural research                            2.1         1.0         3.0          4.8
Technical assistance to farmers                 11 .3        8.0         5.8          9.4
Drying and storage                               3.5         3.0          -            -
Input supply                                     1.0         1.0         3.7          6.0
Forestry development                             6.1         5.0        3.1           5.0
Sawmills                                         2.6         2.0          -            -
B. Social Infrastructure
Social organization                              1.5         1.0        0.1          0.2
Education                                        3.4         3.0        2.1           3.4
Health                                           4.0         3.0        5.3           8.5
C. Project and Program Coordination                 6.5         5.0         4.3          6.9
D. Special Activities                               1.7         1.0         3.4          5.5
E. On-farm Investment                              46.8        35.0         3.0          4.8
Total Baseline Cost                               135.4       100.0        62.0        100.0
Physical contingencies                              9.2         7.0         -            -
Price contingencies                                37.2        27.0         -
Total Project Cost                                181.8       134.0        62.0        100.0
1/ Excluding front-end fee on loan and parallel activities to the project financed locally.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
Source                       Planned                           Final
1US$ million)       /0)         (USS million)       (Yo)
World Bank Loan                  65.2            36.0            36.8            59.4
Federal Government & State      116.6           64.0             25.2            40.6
Government
Total                           181.8           100.0            62.0           100.0



- 29 -
F. Project Results
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicators            Units           Appraisal Estimate    Estimate at Closing   Estimate Full
Date             Development
Farm families               no.                 15,000               4,641                4,641
Family income               USS              5.245/6,441             1,624                1,624
Total Iner. Cultiv.      'OOOs ha              163,000              34,700               34,700
Area
Total Incr. Val.        USS millions             116.8                3.46                 3.46
Product.
School Places               no.                   230                  228                  228
Health Posts                no.                    79                  156                  156
Table 8: ECONOMIC IMPACT
Staff Appraisal Report                          PCR
Area     Production    Farm Value      Area      Production     Farm Value
('OOOs ha)    ('OOOs        (USS       ('OOOs ha)    ('OOOs      (USS millions)
tons)       millions)                  tons)
Annual crops              54.0         72.0          16.0         13.7        16.40          1.42
Coffee (dried cherries)    11.3        18.6          14.4          8.7         7.80          1.40
Guarana (dried cherries)   5.3         3.2            7.3          0.2         0.03          0.03
Rubber (DRC)               18.0        18.0          32.7          2.0           -             -
Cocoa                       -            -             -           0.8         0.34          0.35
Improved Pasture           63.9          -             -           7.2           -             -
Other fruit (banana)      10.4           -           16.4          2.0        23.90          0.13
Sub-Total                 162.9          -           86.8         34.6           -           3.33
Beef & Milk                 -                        30.0           -                        0.13
Total                        -           -          116.8                        -           3.46
Economic Rate of             Appraisal Estimates = 26%             PCR Estimates = not re-estimated
Return
Table 9: FINANCIAL IMPACT 1/
Financial Rate of Return
SAR             PCR
Model l: Annual Crops and Coffee                       36               n.a.
Model Il: Annual Crops and Rubber                      15               n.a.
Model Ill: Annual Crops and Fruit Trees Consortium     35               n.a.
1/ Models estimated during appraisal are not representative of the agricultural development which
occurred in the project area. Only Model I is close to reality. However, the average value of production
estimated for this model is completely marginal compared to the SAR estimate.



- 30 -
Table 10: STUDIES
Studies                          Purpose                      Status               Impact
CETEC Soil Survey       Study soil capability of areas proposed for     -        Its results led to agreement
settlements under Loan 2353-BR                          between GOB and the Bank
not to expand the settlement
areas under the project.
IPEA/PLANACRE           Preparation of an environmentalIV and           -        Studies were used by the
socially sound strategy for the State of                State of Acre in defining
Acre                                                    their development strategy
G. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Loan Agreement                          Subiect/Covenant                                  Status
Covenant Number
Section 3.02          Consultants employed by borrower shall be satisfactory to the   Complied with
Bank in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by Wbrld Bank Borrowers.
Section 3.03          The Borrower shall by 31 January of each year furnish to the    Complied, with delays
Bank, the proposed plan of operations for the following
POLONOROESTE fiscal year and, by the beginning ot the
applicable POLONOROESTE fiscal year, notify the Bank of the
formal approval of such plan of operations, including final
budgetary allocations for POLONOROESTE.
Section 3.04          The Borrower shall cause INCRA to finalize, publish and put  Complied with as related to
into effect by 30 June 1984, cost recovery procedures for   agricultural plots; not
the recovery in real terms from the settlers of at least forty  complied with as related to
percent (40%) of settlement costs, including survey,        other investments.
acquisition, demarcation and titling costs of the agricultural
plots and reserves, the construction costs of feeder and costs
of farm access roads, NUARs, and satellite centres and the
cost of forest inventories and management plans.
Section 3.05          The Borrower shall: Ia) prepare and furnish to the Bank a   Complied with
detailed Action Plan together with institutional arrangements
and estimated execution costs satisfactory to the Bank of
special activities for the carrVing out of Part J.4 (Special
Activities) of the prolect; and ib) furnish to the Bank, or cause
to be furnished to the Bank, for review and comment prior to
its preparation, the nature and outline of each proposal for a
new project which preparation is to be included under Part
J.4 of the project.
Section 3.06          The Borrower shall for purposes of Part L of the Project    Limited compliance, except
(Agricultural Investment Credit) take all financial, institutional   for activities of State bank
and legal measures necessarV including the establishment of    in project area.
an adequate banking infrastructure in the project area, to
ensure the timely availablity of agricultural investment credit
for an estimated 15,000 settlers, and promote its use by
project beneficiaries.
Section 3.07          The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be insured the    Complied with
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.



- 31 -
Loan Aareement                           Subiect/Covenant                                   Status
Covenant Number
Section 3.08          The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action  Complied with
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
settlement, construction and operation of the facilities
provided under the project and provide, or cause to be
provided, all the funds necessary for that purpose.
Project Agreement
Covenant Number
Section 2.05          The State shall: (a) for purposes of Part E of the project    Complied with
(Technical Assistance to Farmers), cause EMATER-RO to
enter into the arrangements with SUDHEVEA referred to in
para.5(a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement (Technical
Assistance to Farmers); and (b) for the purposes of Parts E
and 1 (3) (Social Services) of the project cause EMATER and
SETRAPS-RO to make available agricultural extension and
social organization staff in adequate numbers in accordance
with the timetable set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05          The State shall, for purposes of Part H(8) of the project     Complied with
(Forestry Development), enter into the arrangements with
IBDF referred to in para.8(c) of Schedule 5 of the Loan
Agreement (concerning forestry extension responsibilities).
Section 2.06          The State shall, for the purposes of Park K(4) of the project  Complied with, except that
(Project Management and Coordination): (a) maintain the      inadequate counterpart
Project Coordination Unit with adequate qualified staff,     funds also constrained
funding and facilities; and (b) cause the Project Coordination  effective performance of
Unit with respect to the execution of activities under the First   PCU.
Phase Prolects and the Second Phase Prolects of
POLONOROESTE which affect or may affect project
execution, such activities to include, inter alia, protection of
the indigenous Amerindian population, land tenure
regularization, environmental protection and ecological
research and controlling the environmental impact of the civil
works on the Cuiabl-Porto Velho Highway.
Section 3.01          The State shall take, or cause to be taken, all measures      Complied with
necessary for the acquisition of such land rights in respect of
land, and as shall be required for the construction and
operation of facilities provided by the State under the project.
The State shall: (a) cause DER-RO, SEC-RO, and SES-RO,        (a) Complied with
respectively, to enter into, not later than 30 June 1984,
arrangements with each Municipality to define the             (b) Partially complied with.
responsibilities of the respective Municipality for the operation   In some years, constraints
and maintenance of roads, health and education facilities     on public funding have
included in the project; and (b) provide, promptly as needed,  reduced allocations to less
the funds, facilities, services and ther resources required to  than adequate levels and/or
efficiently operate and maintain such roads and education and   resulted in delays in the
health facilities, all in conformity with appropriate practices  release of allocations.
and by competent personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02          The State shall provide in a timely manner improved seeds in    Substantially complied with
adequate amounts for the prolect through its on-going basic
seed production and improved seed multiplication programs.



- 32 -
Table 12: BANK MISSION AND STAFF INPUT DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Mission                                      Field                                 Performance      Types of
Status         Problems
Month/Year         Staff               Specializations
Weeks                Represented
Preparation and    June 80               6.3       E. ED
Appraisal
June 81 5           32.0       E. ED, A, EG, FO
June 82             50.4       E, A, M, F, EG, ED, H, E
Jan./Feb.           68.1       E, FO, S, M, A, EG, H, ARC, ED
83 b.
Sub-Total                            1 56.8
Negotiations/      Sept.831             9.5       E, A, ED, OPA, F, AN
Project            Feb. 84
Launching
Supervision        Apr. 84               2.4       E, EG, A, FO                             2             M, T
Nov. 84              6.7       E, EG, A, TR                              2             M, T
Apr. 85              4.0       EN, L, FO, LU                             3            M, T, F
June 85              7.0       E, EG, M, EN, A                           3            F, M, T
Sept. 85             13.8      E, A, FO, AN                              3            F, M, T
June 86             23.9       E, A, EN, FO, EG                          3            F, M, T
June 87 6            12.9      E. A, EN, FO, LU, AN                      3            F, M, T
June 88 6            15.0      LU, E, EN                                 3            F, M, T
June 89 6            5.4       E, LU
June 90 '            13.1      E, EG, AN, A                              3            M, F, T
June 91              8.7       E, EG,                                    3            M, F, T
Sept. 92"            4.0       E, A
Subtotal                            126.4
Total                                283.2
1 = Problem-free or minor problems;  2   Moderate problems;  3 = Major problems.
2/   F = Financial;  M = Managerial;  T = Technical;  P = Political;  0   Other.
31   TRS date.
E = Economist;  A = Agriculturalist;  M = Management Specialist;  F = Fincancial Analyst;  L = Livestock
Specialist;  ED = Education Specialist;  S = Soil Specialist;  T = Tree Crops Specialist;  EG = Engineer;
EN = Envirornwntalist;  AN = AnthropoLogist;  DM = Demographer;  H = Health Specialist;  FO = Forestry
Specialist;  ARC = Architect;  OPA = Operations Specialists;   TR = Training Specialist;  L = Loan Officer;
LU = Land Use Specialist.
Includes FAO/CP participation during project preparation.
6/   Total staff weeks are shown.  During these years this project was supervised frequently by individual
mission members. Also, some supervision work on this project, not reflected in these totals, was carried
out in the course of preparation and appraisal of the follow-on Rondonia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource
Management Projects.
PCR Mission.



- 33 -
ANNEXES



- 34 -
Annex I
13RAZ IL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Ln. 2353-BR
Project Colonization Area and Titling
Area                    Settlers' Plots              Titling
SAR      PCR    PCR/    SAR       PCR    PCR/SAR       AO     PT    Total   Titles/
j'000s   SAR                                                        Plots
('OQOs     ha)    M%l    INo.)   (No.)        0/)     (No.)  (no.)            M%)
ha)
Colonization
Area
Urupa          52.0       38.7   74      2,074    1,204   58          nl d.   n.a.   n.a.
Machadinho     200.0     138.4  69       6,717    2,934   44            9     258    267      9
Marmelo        125.0                     2,500                                -       -       -
Cap. Silvio    190.0      -       -      3,750               -                -       -      -
Cujubim        -          23.6    -       -        503    -            42    124    166    33
Sub-Total    567.0    200.7   35       15,041   4,641   31           51    382    433       9
Forest Area    570.0     104.6  18        -        .                -             -          -
Total Area   1,137.0    305.3   27           -       -                      -       -       -
Source: INCRA.



BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Rondonia State - Total Costs
(US$'WoOs)
1983/84     1984/85      1985/86      1986/87        1987/88      1988/89       1989/90       1990/91       1991/92        Total
Production Infrastructure
Mapping, surveying demarcat. titling                                                                                            191            23           90           304
Rural roads                                                                                                       617          496           862         1,289         3,264
NUAR and satellite infrastr.                2,034        4,024         2,885       2,045         2,263            887        3,328           318           5b3        18,337
Agricuttural research                                        73          108          236           246            25        1,896            -                        2,584
Technical assistance                                       242          483           676         1,015           178        2,415            99           331         5,439    1
Input suply                                                 36          160           114           41           415         2,172            27           77?         3,737   in
Forestry development                                       237          508           725           366            63          912            12            81         2,904
SawmiLIs                                                      4                       -             -              -            -                                          4
Social Infrastructure
Social organization                                          40           9            27            5            -             61              2                        144
Education                                                    18          83            47           493            74        1,031           215            r8         2,019
Health                                                       32          38           891           906        2,378           702           237            131        5,315
Project and Program Coordin.                                -           247           -             131           -          1,298           427           257         2,360
Special activities                                                       62           601           229           783        1,299            55             4         3,033
Sub-total    2,034         4,706        4,583        5,362         5,695         5,420        15,801        2,277         3,566         49,444
On-Farm Investment                                          -            -            -             -              -            -             -         3,045 Y        3,045  0
Grand Total    2,034         4,706        4,583        5,362         5,695         5,420         15,801        2,277         6,611        52,489  X
Source: Based on audit reports and information provided by the Project Coordination Unit.
Y:   Mission estimates:  considered as tump sum during final year - no breakdown available for previous years (see Table 8).



BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Mato Grosso - Total Costs
1990/91  1991/92  April 1992/  Total  1990-91 1992/92 April 1992/  Total
July 1992                          July 1992
(Cr.$ millions)                     (US$ millions)
A. Improvement of Infrastrucuture
Road maintenance            594.36    541.37    956.92  2,092.65   4.81    0.74     0.32     5.88
Improve.Water Distr.System   4.25     98.16     49.00    151.41   0.03    0.13      0.02    0.19
Sub-Total                  598.61    639.53   1,005.92  2,244.06   4.85    0.88     0.34    6.07
B. Agroforestry Development
Agricultural Research       25.41    127.91      9.97    163.29   0.21    0.18      0.00    0.36
Extension Service           12.41    150.61     22.50    185.52   0.10    0.21      0.01    0.32
Forestry Development        15.02     66.59     22.57    104.18   0.12    0.09      0.01    0.22
Sub-Total                   52.84    345.11    55.04    452.99   0.43    0.47       0.02    0.92
C. Storage Improvement         23.05     12.60               35.65   0.19    0.02     0.00     0.20
D. Improvement Educational      6.00                         6.00   0.05    0.00      0.00     0.05
Facilities
E. Special Activities          10.53    146.21    213.70   370.44   0.09    0.20      0.07     0.36
F. Administration              192.81    201.21    263.10   657.44   1.56    0.28     0.09     1.93
Grand Total                 883.84  1,344.66  1,537.76  3,766.26   7.16    1.85     0.52     9.53
Source: Project Coordination Unit and mission estimates.



BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Project: Area. Production and Value of Production
Area                                             Production                                       Value of Production
Perennial Crops            SAR               PCR !'          PCR/SAR            SAR               PCR             PCR/SAR              SAR               PCR             PCR/SAR
(ha)                      '%'                   ('000 Tons)                    (X)                   (USS Million)                    (%)
Coffee                         11,300           8,700                 77             18.6              7.80                 42              14.4              1.'0               10.0
Rubber                         18,000             2,000                11            18.0                  -                 -              32.7
Guarana                         5,300               250                 5             3.2               0.03                 1               7.3              0.o3
Cocoa                                -              849                 -                -              0.34                 -                  -             0.35                  -
-4
Other fruits                   10,400             1,995                19             3.2             23.90                746              16.4              0. 3                0.8
Sub-total           45,000            13,794                31                -                 -                 -              70.8              1.                  2.7
Annual Crops                   54,000            13,689                25          72.0                 16.4              23.0              16.0              1.42                8.9
Improved Pastures              63,900           7,200                11                                   "                 -              30.0              0.13               0.4
Total          162,900           34,683                21                -                 -                                116.8            3.4t,                3.0
P: As full development.
!': Year 1992.
F   Being rapidly substituted by pasture.
~:  Total volume of which 31,600 cassava flour.
9: Mission estimate.
12: 1,700 tons of beef and 9.7 million litres of milk.
M':  Mission estimates: sales about 990 head of cattle/year at 300kg/head and 550,000 litres of milk per year.
F:  Valued at financial farm-gate prices.
X-~



BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Family Income Estimates
Area (ha)                        Yields (t/ha)                  Prices            (USS/Ton)                     Value of Production/ha
(USS)
SAR'             PCRI              SAR"              PCRv              SARU               PCRv               SARv               PCR'            X PCR/SAR
Rice                         2.0               2.0               1.4               1.5               110                119                 308                357               116
Maize                        1.0                -                1.2               1.2                76                 54                  91                -                  -
Beans                        1.0               0.5               0.5               0.4               307                417                 153                 83                54        1
Cassava                      0.5               0.5               4.2               4.7               210                200                 441                470               107
Pasture                     (2.0)             (8.0)               -                 -                  -                 -                  -                  -                  -
Coffee                       5.0               2.0               1.65              0.9               593                179               4,892                322                 7
Sub-Totat         9.5               5.0                                                                                        5,885              1,232                21
Milk                                                             0.5               1.5               210                 83                 105                125               119
Beef                                                             1.0               3.0               362                 89                 362                267                74
Total                                                                                                                     6,352              1,624                26
As from Model I of the Staff Appraisal Report.
2'   Mission estimates.



- 39 -
Annex 5
BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yields (/ha) of Major Crops (1989-92)
Appraisal                    Project Area                                            State
Crop        Estimate                                                        % Appraisal 2       Average
Machadinho          Cujubim        Urupa
Coffee           1.6        0.8-1.1              0.6-0.8        1.0-1.2              56           0.7-1.2
(1.0-1.6)            (1.0-1.2)     (0.8-1.3)
Rice             1.4        1.0-1.2              1.6-1.8        1.7                 107           1.5-1.7
(1.2-1.6)            (1.4-1.6)     (1.6-2.1)
Maize            1.2        0.8-1.2              0.8-1.0        1.8                 100           1.6-1.7
(0.9-1.1)             (1.6)        (1.4-1.8)
Beans            0.5        0.2-0.4              0.2-0.3        0.4-0.9             80           0.5-0.6
(0.3-0.5)            (0.3-0.6)     (0.3-0.9)
Banana            -         1.2-1.5              n.a.           n.a.                 -           0.8-0.9
(0.9-1.5)'           (0.9)         (0.3-0.9)
Cocoa             -         0.4                  n.a.           0.3-0.7              -           0.3-0.5
(0.4)                (0.5-1.1)     (0.5-1.0)
Cassava          4.2        4.5                  4.2            5.6                 111          5.6-5.9
(flour)                    (4.5)                (5.6)          (5.6)
Yields in project area refer to 1989-1992 data, farmers' information and mission estimates.
2/   Average yield in project areas/appraisal estimate.
3/   Numbers in parentheses refer to municipality (Machadinho, Cujubim and Urupa) averages, period 1986-1992.
4/   Number of bunches per  OOOs.



- 40 -
Annex 6
BRAZIL
NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Appraisal and PCR Comparison of Main Product Prices
Prices (US$/ton)
Yields            Appraisal          PCR
Rice                         110             119
Corn                          76              54
Beans                        307             417
Cassava (flour)              210             200
Coffee (dried                488             179
cherries)
Milk                         210              83
Beef (liveweight)           1,391            342



IBRD 17069
M   .  t4'        _      _     1                      62'                                                    APRIL 198
-8'             50           100 lo.ts '8
zj ( r CuNCi fg z1.......... <>\ :xB R A  Z I L
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT
PHASE m
RONDONIA NEW SETTLEMENT AREA
0                                                                         MIIIIIIIII N-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -  -  A,.* 
fl              * l.. S              A,.. d-1.-
P.... Fod, Ro-d,
N~~~~~~~N
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                       PI.-d\ 
$,01   1 A 5E                <                   S_                                       sOUtaFT                    iP-1-.... S.E11.-., A-;
(                                                       ,47;                                  1,. G   U   A    J  A    R   A  o.E M-J
K,                                                                                                                                           4o   ,      RI ,
t t                                                   0 4 . 0/ NV  E   L   H                                                                                     O B
stotil. jt v | L H ~~~~~~~~E    N    T
,r           9  R mA  Z I 
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                      G,OSSO
)   .  bu.  o. ,o~~~~~~~~~~~~6A



