Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
1M3 Z353- &3,
Report 0 P3654
REPORT AND       Da      N
OFTE
PEIDoEqn PT OF TME
INTEiRNAIONAL BNM   OR siecoTRC SND AM VEP T
TO T
EXECUTI  DIRECZORS
ONAN
PROPOSE   LA
IN  N AMOUNT Z      IVT    US$65.2 mILLION
TO TE
FEDERT  IVE IEPUBLIC OF RSAZIL
FOR A
NORTMST RMEGION ISTEGRAED ISEV LOPNNT PROGRAM
THIR  -4ASE: JEW STLNTSPRDJECT
October 4, 1983
This document bas a restricted dEstribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornumice of
their official duies. its ontens may not othrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982                             September 20, 1983
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 - Cr$179.80                          US$1 - Cr$698.00
Cr$1 - US$0.0056                          Cr$1 - US$.001432
GOVERIMEPT OF BRAZIL FISCAL EAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The excahnge rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report
for project cost and financing estliates (US$S-CrS338.0)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of February 28,
1982.



FOR OMCIAL USF ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS USED IN THE TEXT
ASTER-RO    As so ciacao de Ass istencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural Rondonia
(Techniscal Assi&tance and Rural Extension Association-Rondonia)
BEC         Batalhao de Engenharia de Construcao
(Civil Engineering Battalion)
CNPq        Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvi=ento Cientifico e Tecnologico
(National Council for Science and Technology)
CODARON     Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Agricultural Development Company of Rondonia)
DER-RO      Departuento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
(Rondonia Highway Department)
FUNAI       Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(Nacional Indian Foundation)
IBDF        Instituto Brasileiro de Desezvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA       Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
NUAR        Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Center)
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
PROBOR      Programa de Incentivos a Producao de Borracha Natural
(Program of Incentives for Natural Rubber Production)
SAL3        South Amercan Leaf Blight
SEPLAUN-PR   Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Planning Secretariat)
SEPLAN-RO   Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
SUDECO      Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-West)
SUDHEVEA    Superintendencia da Borracha
(Superintendency fpr Rubber Development)
UEPAE-RO    Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Research Unit)
This document has a resticted diswibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoancea of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwis be discsed without World Bank autbortion.



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
THIRD PHASE: NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:        US$65.2 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.2 million.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Benificiaries: The National Institute for colonization and Agrarian Reform
(INCRA) would be the major beneficiary of the loan proceeds,
to be used to settle migrant farmers in unoccupied areas of
the state of Rondonia. Other beneficiaries include the
state of Rondonia and the National Forestry Development
Institute. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Federal Government.
Project
Descrip tion:   The loan would help finance a third phase of the Bank's
participation in the Northwest Region Integrated Developmen-
Program (POLONOROESTE), a region covering the state of  -
Rondonia and 14 municipalities in the central and western
part of the state of Mato Grosso. The program aims at
increasing the productivity, income, and social welfare of
the region's present and future population, and is expected
to benefit directly some 120,000 small scale farm families.
At the core of the program is the paving of the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho highway, and the investments required to achieve the
balanced socio-economic development of the road's area of
influence while protecting the region's Amerindian
population and natural environment. The proposed project
seeks to provide land, facilities, and assistance to migrant
farm families arriving in Rondonia, and to develop
cost-effective settlement and environmental protection
methods for the Amazon region in Brazil. About 15,000 farm
families would be settled in unoccupied areas selected
through surveys demonstrating their agricultural aptitude.
The project would support the development of appropriate
agriculture, extension and research programs, and small
scale forestry operations. Investment credit would also be
financed under the project. Settlement sites would be
designed in ways which minimize their environmental impact,
and forest reserves would be set aside in blocks. As part
of the Bank's Special Action Program, the Bank would
accelerate disbursements for the first two fiscal years of
POLONOROESTE.



- li -
Risks:         The project is in an evironmentally sensitive area, where
soil quality is generally lower than the already settled
areas of Mato Grosso and Rondonia. The settlement planning
system used in the project should help select areas suitable
for sustained agriculture. Selection of knowledgeable
settlers is also to be achieved. More sophisticated
agronomic and farm management practices will be required
both for the production of rubber (a relatively new crop for
farmers in the region) and to minimize other kinds of
environmental damage. Expanded technical assistance to
farmers, complemented by local research, should help
moderate these risks.  Finally, there is a further risk that
weak coordination of various project activities would cause
delays in implementation. Regular monitoring reports,
already used in the first two phases of the Northwest
Program and the growing capability of involved agencies,
should minimize this risk.
Estimated Costs:                            US$ Million
Local           Foreip           Total
Land Use Planning
and Settlement Des              7.1              1.6              8.7
Rural Roads and
Urban Infrastructure:          23.6             12.6             36.2
Agricultural Development:      23.4              3.2             26.6
On-farm Investment             42.1              4.7             46.8
Social Infrastructure:          7.4              1.5              8.9
Coordination and
Management:                     6.1              0.4              6.5
Studies:                        0.7              1.0              1.7
Total Baseline Cost:          110.4             25.0            135.4
Physical Contingencies       6.7              2.5              9.2
Price Contingencies         30.4              6.6            37.2
Total Project Cost:           147.5             34.3            181.8 1/
Front End Fee on Loan:         -                 0.2              0.2
Total Financing Required:    147.5              34.5            182.0
1/ Including About US$1l.2 million of taxes.



- iit -
Financing Plan:                           US  Million-
Local          Foreign          Total          Z
Government              116.8            -              116.8          64
IBRD                    30.7            34.5             65.2          36
TOTAL             147.5            34.5            182.0         100
Estimated Disbursements:   -       -$  Million
Bank FY       84       85      86     87     88      89     90
Annual:      10.2 1/  11.5   10.0   11.5   11.5    8.5    3.0
Cumudative: 10.2       21.7   31.7   42.2   53.7   61.2   65.2
Rate of Return: 26% for the directly productive components of the project
covering 88% of the estimated project investment costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No.2*9*-BR of September 21, 1983.
1/ Including initial deposit into Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$65.2 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
THIRD PHASE: NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$65.2 million
including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.2 million to help finance a
New Settlements Project in the State of Rondonia. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled 'Economic Memorandum on Brazil"
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated Auguat 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs summarize
some of the principal findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with
inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
and Minas Gerais. A presidential election is schedulec for November 1984.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreiga and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and



- 2 -
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11X annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. As the merchandise trade deficit ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, efforts were made to redress the external imbalance. Over the
entire 1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82Z
increase of imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid
accumulation of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the
compression of real Imports, and the intensification of inflationary
pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to the further sharp
increase in petroleum prices and the rise in interest rates which occurred
in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over those two years, the current account deficit
more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell
by US$5 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary inmediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization.  Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
'billion) in net interest payments abroad.  Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International rpserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of Taois imporcs (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 198G). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.



-3-
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13X in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short-term borrowing and draw
,uWLn its reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history,
mostly reflecting record high interest payments. These interest paytents
(US$8.5 billion) plus amortization of existing medium- and long-ternm (1&LT)
loans (US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new MELT loans
(US$15.2 billion), constituting a negative net ML&T resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-82 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relativaly free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50% have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in th.
State of Sao Paulo fell by over 20% between November 1980 and April 1983.
For 1982, GDP fell by about 1%, while inflation continued at just below
100%.
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustmeut program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. In February
1983, to support the Government's austerity program, the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and an Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rollover of
US$4.6 billion of medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, US$9.4
billion in short-term commercial credits, and restoration to US$7.5 billion
of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas branches of Brazilian banks.
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.  A
major objective for 1983 is to generate an unprecedented trade surplus of
US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance-of-payments
deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In order to increase the



chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade surplus target, the
cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983. The cruzeiro will continue
to be devalued in line with domestic inflation through 1984, implying some
additional real depreciation as external prices rise. Simultaneously, the
Government bas temporarily imposed stricter, emergency oriented, import
restrictions. Despite a slow start and continuing adverse international
market conditions, Brazil appears to be on target in attaining the US$6
billion trade surplus for 1983. By the end of June the cumulative trade
surplus for the first half of the year had reached US$3 billion. While
much of the surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export
performance in the past few months has improved considerably. June 1983's
exports exceeded those of June 1982 by 19%, pushing up the cumulative
growth in relation to the first six months of 1982 to 6%. The current
account deficit will be reduced to about US$8 billion or some 3% of GDP.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, (b) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit and commodity subsidies, and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 100% of cost-of-living increases. According to
Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the program
announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
6% in 19B2 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.1/ By May 1983 it had become
apparent that this ambitious target, involving a 7% change in the deficit
as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Consequently, the IMF suspended
the second disbursement of the EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May and
initiated negotiations with the Government to revise the stabilization
program and the ceilings in the agreement.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures. The stabilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty.
Renewed efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public
sector deficit. A rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies was
announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by the public
1/   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government's estimates of the consolidated public
sector deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate
the accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a
current expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, prefers to treat the
monetary correction of the debt as a current expenditure and to
express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflation is given.



- 5 -
sector, such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were subutantially
increased, reducing Implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public entarprimes
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprioe budget has been
implemented, involving a further ZX cut in the investments of such firms.
At the same time, wage policy has been modlfied to provide le. than full
cost-of-living indexing to wages and salaries.
14.       The new letter of intent to the IMF was signed by the Goverament
in mid-September, and the IMF Board of Directors is expected to consider
the revised agreement the first week of November. A major target in the
new agreement is the reduction of the public sector deficit from 6Z of GDP
ln 1982 to 2.71 by the end of 1983, with complete elimination scheduled for
1984. The monetary base is to be held to a 90X increase in 1983; in
contrast, inflation is expected to be 152-160X in 1983 and 552 in 1984.
External payments arrears of more than US$2 billion are to be eliminated by
tbe end of 1983.
15.       To achieve the reduction in the public sector deficit, the
Government is committed to the phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies
and continuation of pricing policies to eliminate existing subsidies on oil
derivatives, wheat and major public sector products. Price controls on
some 300 privately produced industrial goods and services will be rescinded
gradually as inflation falls. The finances of the central governmnt will
also be improved by additional revenue-generating measures; those of the
state enterprises will be strengthened by control of wage costs and by
cutbacks in investment outlays, as well as by better pricing policies. An
improved system for controlling expenditures and borrowing has been
introduced.
16.       A new external financing package from the commercial banks for
the remainder of 1983 and 1984, amounting to US$7 billion in new funds and
some debt rescheduling, is expected as a subsequent part of the
renegotiated agreement between the Brazilian Government and the IME.
Brazil has also requested a rescheduling of some US$2 billion of bilateral
loans and officially guaranteed private export credits from the Paris Club.
17.       Brazil's balanre of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about three-fourths of
the country's debt bears either variable interest rates or is short-term,
each 1% drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$650 million. For
each dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil
bill, which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall
by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
18.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater, as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by mDre than 10%



- 6 -
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum production increased by about
50% over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, have been reduced to an annual level
of US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.
19.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rateo should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years, but
agricultural and industrial production and exports, as well as the
development of domestic energy sources, are receiving priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
20.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payients depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. Assuming that the recovery of the world economy now
underway is sustained, Brazil could look forward to gradual recovery
beginning in 1984 and reaching about 5% per annum by 1986. Such a scenario
would be compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1988.
However, it does require the continued availability of net capital inflows
over the period.
21.       K&LT borrowing for 1983 will be substantial -- over US$17 billion
gross and about US$9 billion net. As Brazil's exports increase, however,
the country's borrowing requirements will fall, and the net MKLT debt
service ratio is expected to decline from 82% in 1982 to approximately 69Z
in 1986.
22.       These objectives will not be easily achieved, however, and
instances of short-term cash flow problems cannot be ruled out. However,
the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances.  With the Government's commitment to the
austerity program in 1983, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to
make the adjustments needed to cope with adverse internat' nal
circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a more eiricient
development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes
described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
23.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been



directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services.2/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s.  Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of the stabilization program on output and employment, however, much
of this gain may be lost in the present crisis. Particularly affected are
the urban poor.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
24.       By March 31, 1983 the Bank had made 119 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$7,672.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 65 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1983
was US$3,773.8 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans.
25.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, eight loans totaling
US$722.1 million were approved.  In FY83, seven loans totaling US$1,457.-,
million were approved. They included US$8.9 mlllion for a project to help
finance the preparation of metropolitan developmeat programs for Fortaleza
and Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining
project in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for a third feeder roads
project, US$220.0 million for a second development banking project,
US$302.3 million for a water and sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million
for a second rural development project in the State of Babia, and US$400.0
million for a third agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for
US$52.7 million for a market towns improvement project in the State of
Parana, US$352 million for an export development project, and US$303
million for an agricultural credit and export development project have been
approved. Work is advanced on a technician training project, a rural
electrification project, a power distribution project, supplemental
financing for on-going agricultural and rural development projects, and on
a primary health care project in the State of Sao Paulo.
26.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outst=:ding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end--of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4%.
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see -The Distribution
of Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September
1979) and  Brazil - Human Resources Special Report  (Report No.
2604-BR, dated July 13, 1979).



- 8 -
27.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$921.09 million, of which US$602.62 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$318.47 million, US$248.89 million
represent loans and US$69.58 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
28.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events.  At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-ternm development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
29.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the recently approved Third Agro-Industries Project, financing of a higher
share of project costs during the initial implementation years for the
Second Rural Development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of expenditure. A supplemental financing loan for ongoing
agricultural and rural development projects is also under discussion with
the Governmeat.
30.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been made,
and much of Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector - railways,
ports and highways - is designed to fac-ilitate the economic flow of
exports. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a
restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of Government
initiatives, have been presented to the Executive Directors. Given
agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and import
substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
31.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of



hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Future
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
32.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, ,ocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, pclder e-onstruction in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the
northwest. The proposed project would settle primarily low-income migrant
farmers in currently unoccupied areas of Northwest Brazil, and provide
support for sustainable agricultural development. Loans for water supply
and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo,
in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban transport in several
major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing, and a
loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.
33.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a -atalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new co-financing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
34.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy. It employs about 36% of the economically active population, and
contributes about 10% of the GDP and half of export earnings. Brazil is
the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest
producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. In
most years Brazil has been self-sufficient in basic food production except
for wheat. The average annual agricultural growth rate in the decade to
1980 was about 5%. Agricultural development has been assigned high



- 10 -
priority in Brazil's 1980-85 development plan, to help reduce inflation
through expanded food production and to improve the balance-of-payments
through increased production of export crops and energy substitutes.
35.       Constraiats on agricultural production, particularly for small-
scale farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit, extension
services, and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting services
and infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and uncertain land
tenure and highly uneven land distribution.  Brazil has traditionally
relied on an expansion of its development frontiers to Increase its
agricultural production. This trend is likely to continue in the decades
to come, despite productivity gains expected from stepped-up investments in
agricultural research.
36.       An aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the provision
of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates which, with the high
level of inflation, are negative in real terms. The subsidies were
introduced to induce an expansion in agricultural production by offsetting
the high cost of inputs and by giving special assistance to disadvantaged
groups. The Government's efforts to remedy the increasingly apparent
economic and administrative drawbacks of the system were stepped up
recently as the Government initiated a program to reduce the public sector
deficit. A series of measures for reducing agricultural subsidies were
adopted in late December 1982. The 1983 monetary budget introduces, for
the first time, partial monetary correction for rural credit (70Z of
correction plus 3Z interest for most of the country). The Government has
further indicated that it intends to phase out major agricultural credit
subsidies over the next five years.
The Northwest Region Development Program
37.       The northwest region of Brazil is officially defined as the area
of influence of the 1,500 km. Cuiaba-Porto Velho road (BR-364). This area
encompasses all of the state of Rondonia and 14 municipalities located in
the central and western parts of the state of Mato Grosso. The 1980
population was estimated at 1,060,000 and is expected to grow at about 10%
per annum through 1988. An attraction of the northwest region, unlike
other parts of the Amazon, is that climatic conditions and soils are
suitable for agriculture. Some 29,000 km2 of the region have good soils,
mainly in Rondonia, and a further half of the remaining soils are estimated
to be capable of sustaining agricultural practices and inputs. The rapid
occupation of the region's good soils, and the continued migration, is now
putting pressure on the lower quality soils.
38.       Migration to the regioa followed the opening ot the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho Highway in the 1960's and aroused concern for the appropriate
development of the region. The increased threats to the natural
environment required adequate policies and institutional capabilities to
manage the growing human occupation of the region. This would limit the
risk that occupation of poor soils with ili adapted agricultural practices
and uncontrolled deforestation could damage soils or induce changes in
climatic and hydrological conditions. Past attempts to settle small scale
farmers elsewhere in the Amazon region since the 1960's demonstrated the



- 11 -
need to provide migrants with a range of productive and social
infrastructure and services in order to promote productive strategies
oriented towards preserving the agricultural aptitude of the land for the
long-term.
39.       The region is perceived as a future source of agricultural
production for export and domestic markets and as a location where migrants
can be permanently and productively settled. The Northwest Region
Integrated Development Program (POLONOROESTE) provides a broad regional
strategy which takes into account ecological, social and infrastructural
problems. It is coordinated by the Superintendency for Economic
Development in the Center-West (SUDECO) of the Ministry of Interior. The
Bank has already supported this regiona'l strategy through the first two
phases of the program (paras. 42-45), which consist of:
(a) improvement of the transport system through the paving
of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway and consolidation of
the feeder roads network (53% of estimated program costs);
Cb) consolidation of existing settlement areas in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso (15% of estimated program costs);
Sc) land tenure services (1% of estimated program costs);
(d) environmental protection (2% of estimated program cost);
(e) health services and research (2Z of estimated project cost);
(f) Amerindian protection (2% of estimated project costs); and
(g) program administration (1%).
The third phase new settlements project would provide for establishment of
settlement areas to accomodate new migrant families, and account for the
remaining 24X of the Program budget. Although initially the third phase
was to place some 30,000 families in new areas, this target was gradually
modified in view of the complexity of settlement in virgin tropical forest
areas to accommodate 15,000 farmers.
40.       Program Benefits and Justification. The region's agricultural
production is expected to grow at a 13Z average annual rate, while
sustained cropping would be encouraged. Transport cost savings associated
with investments in infrastructure would result in improved price
incentives to agricultural producers and access to domestic and export
markets. The POLONOROESTE program would provide migrant farm families with
enhanced employment and income opportunities and improve living
conditions. An economic rate of return computation for the program was
attempted, and estimated at over 502, reflecting primarily the predicted
increase in agricultural output and improved facilities for transport.
Major unquantifiable benefits include better protection of ecologically
sensitive areas, intensification of efforts to protect the Amerindian
population, improved social services, strengthening of the capacity of



- 12 -
regional institutions, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin
environment.  There are also costs which are difficult to quantify, such as
those associated with possible occupation of unsuitable soils, potential
threats to native flora and fauna species and pressure on previously
isolated Amerindian populations.
41.       Program Risks.  The POLONOROESTE program is located in a frontier
area of Brazil. The lack of some detailed regional information gives rise
to uncertainities regarding the environmental risks of the program. The
Northwest Region Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
project (loan 2060-BR) includes measures to help protect the more fragile
areas of the region and monitor land use closely so that potentially
dangerous trends could be halted. These measures are being complemented
under the proposed project (para. 47). Despite these mitigating m-asures,
the execution of the program would entail substantial unavoidable risk.
However, this risk would be considerably lower than that which would exist
were no attempts made to control the negative effects of the ongoing
spontaneous and disorderly development of the northwest region.
The Bank's Experience with the Program
42.       The total cost of the _hree phases of the Program, excluding
agricultural credit, was estimated at US$1.5 billion including price
contingencies, in January 1981. Bank loans for the program total US$346.4
million for the first two phases of the program, about 34Z of the total
finance necessary for the four projects which comprise the two phases.3/
Disbursements, as of August 31, 1983, totalled US$84.1 million, about T7X
of the total loans. This is in line with the original project appraisal
targets.
43.       To date the performance of the Program, initially emphasizing the
establishment of needed physical infrastructure, has been good. Ten rural
service centers (NUAR's) and 1,100 km of access roads were completed,
within original contract estimates. Health services and malaria prevention
activities have been expanded, with the construction of 10 health centers
and about 80 smaller health posts. The highway works are now about 30X
completed, and the road is trafficable in all weather conditions. In Mato
Grosso, activities have had a slower start, due to early difficulties in
staffing and transfers of funds.
44.       Implementation of environmental components has been reasonable.
The Special Project for Protection of Amerindian communities, not financed
by the Bank but an integral part of the Program, suffered some delay in
1982. However, demarcation of Amerindian reserves in Rondonia has been
3/  These loans include:  Loan 2060-BR for Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection (US$67 million), Loan 2061-BR for a Health
Project (US$13 million), Loan 2062-BR for a Highway Project (US$240
million) which comprise the first phase program activities, and Loan
2116-BR (US$26.4 million) for a Rural Development Project in the state
of Mato Grosso which is the second phase of the program.



- 13 -
completed, and demarcation of reserves in Mato Grosso, including those in
the Guapore Valley, is expected to be completed by end-1983. Additional
personnmel were contracted by the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) in
mid-1983 to provide additional health and technical assistance services to
Ameriudian communities. The National Forestry Development Iustitute (IBDF)
has been slow to carry out establishment of forest reserves. Future
supervision efforts by the Bank will seek to improve the performance of
IBDF under the Program.
45.       It is premature to evaluate the impact of POLONOROESTE on
agricultural production because it is still at an early implementation
stage. As expected, agriculture in the region is not without its
problems. Preliminary Indications suggest that restrictions on
agricultural credit and low prices have been disincentives to commercial
production of annual crops, and that low world market prices and disease
have slowed new plantings of cocoa, and that some farmers without resources
are selling their land to larger farmers. However, farm-gate prices are
expected to improve with better transport infrastructure providing higher
returns to farmers. Additional lv, the establishment of improved
infrastructure in the area should ease the difficulties in provisioa of
inputs and services to farmers. Ongoing close supervision and evaluation
will stress the impact of POLONOROESTE on agriculture and be a focus of the
mid-term evaluation of the Program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project constitutes the third phase of the
POLONOROESTE program and is subject to agreements reached for the two prior
phases. The project was prepared by federal and state government
authorities with the assistance of the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program. The
project was appraised in November 1982 and negotiated from September 12,
1983 to September 16, 1983. The Brazilian delegation was led by Ambassador
Leite Ribeiro (SEPLAN). A staff appraisal report entitled 'Brazil
Northwest Region Development Program: Third Phase New Settlements Project'
(No. 2494-BR, dated September 21, 1983) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Area
47.       The project area would cover about 1.1 million ha of uninhabited
land in Rondonia, which are mainly publicly owned tropical forest with
productive activities consisting of some wild rubber tapping, limited
mineral prospecting, and some extractive forestry operations. Topography
is gently undulating. Soil quality is variable, predominantly of mDderate
to marginal fertility. There are no existing roads into the proposed
settlement sites. The cropped area of the project would be concentrated on
good to moderate quality land; cultivation of poor soils would be avoided.



- 14 -
Project Rationale and Objectives
48.       The proposed third phase new settlements project seeks to provide
land, facilities and assistance to migrants a.riving in Rondonia, and to
address the more general need to develop cost-effective settlement and
environmental protection methods for the Amazon region in Brazil.  The
preparation of the project has addressed the major problems in prior
settlement norms (para. 38), including site selection and layout, land use
zoning, and more effective cost recovery procedures.  The project differs
from the earlier phases of POLONOROESTE in that it will use hitherto
unoccupied soils which are of mDre variable quality than those found in
areas already occupied. The measures incorporated into the project are
designed to minimize the risks to the environment of the region, and to
provide an effective means of absorbing some of the pressure from migrating
farm families in search of land, many of which are already in the region.
Project objectives are to (a) settle up to 15,000 families by 1989 in six
selected areas of Rondonia; (b) provide settlers with necessary
infrastructure and services; (c) develop forestry operations in
agglomerated reserves; (d) promote economically viable tree crops suited to
the Amazon environment; and (e) improve government settlement planning and
implementation capacity. The settlers would produce subsistence and
commercial food crops and cash crops such as rubber, fruit and, to a lesser
extent, coffee. In the longer term, they would also be involved in
forestry operations. The 15,000 families would represent about half of the
number expected to arrive in Rondonia within the period of project
implementation with an interest in finding agricultural employment. The
other half would find work opportunities as sharecroppers or laborers on
already established farms, or settle in the urban centers of the project
area.
Project Components
49.       The project provides for:
(a) land use planning and settlement design;
(b) a rural road network and urban infrastructure;
(c) agricultural services and on-farm investments;
(d) forestry development;
(e) social services; and
(f) project management and related special studies.
50.       Land Use Planning and Settlement Design.  Settlement planning and
imp.ementation are complicated in the Amazon basin due to the dense forest
and swampy areas, heavy rainfall, diseases, lack of reliable maps and poor
communications. This componaent emphasizes the activities required to
ensure that settlement design is tailored to the environmental conditions
of the area and a proper agronomic base is provided to the farmers. Six
sites have been identified by the National Institute for Colonization and



- 15 -
Agrarian Reform (INCRA). Detailed land use planning and layouts have been
completed for three of the sites and construction of settlement
infrastructure is underway. A preliminary layout of penetration roads and
agricultural plots has been completed for the remaining sites. Further
field evaluations of the land use capability will be conducted to confirm
the preliminary zoning once paths are opened along the proposed penetration
lines. The remaining settlement areas are intended to be developed only
after meeting the same detailed criteria for already studied areas. The
project would finance remaining land use planning for about 0.9 million ha,
topographical surveys and physical demarcation of individual properties,
and titling of properties and reserve areas.
51.       Urban Infrastructure and Rural Roads.  Roads and urban
infrastructure would be undertaken with a strategy similar to that of the
first phase of the Program. Seven Rural Service Centers (NUARs) would be
established to serve as a focus for commercial and social activities. Each
NUAR includes administration and service areas, lots for private houses and
recreational and commercial areas. Smaller satellite centers would also be
established. Private trade and services develop rapidly in these centers,
as shown by previous experience in the region. Substantial road
construction would be required for access to settlement sites and for
marketing of production. The loan would finance the construction of about
3,000 km of farm access roads, six NUAR sites and 71 satellite centers.
Some 750 km of feeder roads as well as a further 200 km of access roads and
one NUAR would be entrusted to a Civil Engineering Battalion (BEC), not
financed by the loan. The Bank would not disburse against the
infrastructure of any settlement site until complete plans, costing, and
programmdng of corresponding construction and operation activities had been
agreed with the state of Rondonia; and all property rights to settlement
and reserve areas had been acquired by INCRA (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the
Loan Agreement).
52.       Agricultural Services and On-farm Investments.  Agricultural
extension would emphasize rubber and fruit tree development. The project
would finance construction and equipment of extension offices, housing
facilities and vehicles for staff, operating costs, training of
extensionists and farmer leaders, and consultant services to assist the
Superintendency for Ruber Development (SUDHEVEA) in implementing its rubber
development program in the project area. Extension staff would be made
available according to a schedule agreed by the Bank (Schedule 5 para 5(a)
and Schedule 8 of the Loan Agreement and Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement). Adaptive agricultural research would complement ongoing
research under various other Bank loans with emphasis on annual and
perennial crop production techniques tailored to local soil conditions. To
reduce losses and provide marketing flexibility, warehouses with a total
capacity equivalent to about 30% of expected marketed output by year six of
the project would be built.
53.       On-farm investments totaling US$46.8 million, excluding
contingencies, would cover the establishment of perennial crop
plantations.The Bank loan would finance the establishment of rubber and
fruit trees, through the Rubber Development Program (PROBOR) of the
Government and available credit lines of the Bank of Brazil (BB). The



- 16 -
terms and conditions of investment credit financed by the Bank would follow
a schedule agreed with the Bank for the recently approved agricultural
credit and export development project for the phasing out of rural credit
subsidies. Investment credit financial charges would be adjusted from 85%
of monetary correction in 1983-84 (but only 70% in the North/Northeast) to
100% of monetary correction (but only 85% in the lNorth/Northeast) in
1985-86, and a nominal interest rate of 3Z in addition to monetary
correction. PROBOR loans are repayable over 13 years, with a seven-year
grace period, and carry an interest rate of 55% of monetary correction plus
3%.  By 1985, the monetary correction on these loans will increase to 70%.
Farmers would rely on private banks for financing for coffee (about USS 8.9
million) and purchase of lvestock and farm implements (about US$19.7
million). Seasonal credit of about US$6.1 million per annum by year six of
the project would be financed through government lines (Section 4.01 of the
Loan Agreement). The norms and conditions for the various credit lines
were reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Access to credit for
settlers would require the gradual installation of credit posts in each
NUAR (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Forestry Development.  Forestry development aims at maximizing
the recovery of marketable timber through salvage logging on some 375,000
ha expected to be cleared for agricultural purposes within the next twelve
years; the establishment and operation of pilot sawmills; and, in the
longer term, at developing sustainable forestry operations on some 525,000
ha of legal forest reserves. The component would also provide equipment
essential for the protection of natural parks and reserves, water sources
and endangered species in Rondonia. A management plan for each reserve
would be developed by the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development
(IBDF), which would also provide technical assistance to farmers
undertaking salvage logging. Emphasis on strengthening IBDF's staff would
include hiring extensionists, central staff, and consultant services to
assist in the design of the program. Consultants would be recruited prior
to June 30, 1984 and extension staff would be made available according to a
schedule agreed by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
55.       Social Services.  Some 20,000 school places would be created and
about 500 teachers would be trained. This would provide above-average
coverage of the school-age population projected for 1989. The curriculum
and calendar would be based on the survey carried out under the first phase
(Loan 2060-BR). Operating costs would be financed by the state government
(Section 3.01(b) of the Project Agreement). Basic health care and malaria
prevention would be supported by the project through establishment of
health centers and health posts and would complement Loan 2061-BR. Settler
groups would be organized in the areas of influence of each NUAR topromote
community activities. This has been tested in the context of the first
phase of the Program with positive results.
56.       Project Management and Special Studies.  The project would help
INCRA strengthen its implementation capacity by providing office equipment
and vehicles, and financing incremental operating costs and some 36
man-months of consultant services.  Various activities to support the
introduction of suitable new perennial crops in the Amazon area, pilot
operations, 36 man-months of international consultancy services, and
studies for other projects in the Northwest region would be financed.



- 17 -
Parallel Activities
57.       The main parallel activity is the construction and maintenance of
feeder roads and limited NUAR infrastructure by the DEC. Other parallel
activities include road maintenance, operation of education and health
facilities, and supply and multiplication of improved seeds. An ongoing
seed supply program would provide needed seeds in a timely fashion (Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement). Credit for coffee, livestock, and farm
a           implements would be provided through private banks.  The Goverrment would
finance seasonal credit requirements.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       Total project cost, including agricultural investment credit for
rubber and tropical f-uit trees, is estimated at about US$182 million, of
which about US$34 million is foreign exchange equivalent, and about US$11
million are taxes. These costs exclude about US$78 million for roads and
NUAR infrastructure to be constructed by the BEC and for coffee and
livestock investment, not subject to Bank financing. Price contingencies
were calculated in US dollar terms based on 8Z for 1983, 7.5Z for 1984, 7Z
for 1985, and 6% from 1986 on. A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown
In the Loan and Project Summary on page ii. The proposed Bank loan of
US$65.2 million, including about US$0.2 million for the capitalized
front-end fee, would finance about 38% of estimated project costs,
excluding taxes. The proposed loan would finance, until March 31, 1985,
about 50% and, thereafter, 35Z of project expenditures, net of taxes. This
would include the foreign exchange component of costs plus the equivalent
of about US$30.7 million of local costs. The higher cost sharing, proposed
in accord with the Bank's Special Action Program, and the financing of a
share of local costs will ease the implementation of this poverty
alleviation-oriented project which the Government considers of sufficiently
high priority to proceed with in spite of the reduction in public
expenditures included in the ongoing austerity program. Retroactive
financing of up to US$4.0 million equivalent would be permitted to help
cover eligible expenditures after November 4, 1982. The balance of project
financing would come from the federal and state governments, mainly through
funds already earmarked for the Northwest Program.
Procurement and Consulting Services
59.       Civil works eligible for Bank financing for farm access roads
(US$38 million) and other infrastructure (US$19 million) would be executed
by contract following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Foreign firms wold not be excluded, but previous experience has
shown that they are not likely to be interested given the remote and
dispersed location of the proposed works. These civil works represent
about 70% of project costs which would be subject to bidding procedures.
Individual contracts are expected to be on the order of US$1 to US$3
million. Mechanized maintenance of access roads (about US$4.1 million)
would also be let through local competitive bidding. Other small
contracts, for construc-tion of research units, forest inventories and
management plans, as well as the acquisition of small numbers of vehicles
and machinery would be carried out by force account or acquired from local



- 18 -
equipment dealers. The Bank would review and approve standard procurement
documents and specifications prior to bidding of contracts for civil works
or equipment in excess of US$500,000. Bid evaluation and award
recommendations for all contracts exceeding US$500,000 would be reviewed by
the Bank prior to contract signing. Consultancy services. totaling some
126 man-months, to provide technical assistance and to be used in special
studies, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines, both locally
and internationally.
Disbursements
60.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on all
components at a uniform rate of 44Z until March 31, 1985 and 32%
thereafter, except for consultants and special studies, which would be at a
100% rate. Disbursement rates were adjusted to reflect both the tax
element and the fact that some expenditures would be 100% financed.
Disbursements for civil works executed by force account, road
maintenance. and operational expenses would be through Statements of
Expenditures certified by SUDECO. Supporting documentation would be
reviewed in the field. Standard documentation covering civil works,
vehicles, machinery, equipment and technical assistance would be submitted
to the Bank. The government would request the Bank to make advance payment
of up to US$4.0 million into a Special Account opened in the Central Bank
(Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement). Conversion from US dollars to
cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of
expenditure. The Central Bank would send the corresponding statements of
expenditure to the Bank, which would replenish the Special Account. The
loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
61.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. Copies of
the audit report on participating agencies would be provided by SUDECO
within six months of the end of each POLONOROESTE fiscal year. (Section
5.03 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement.) The
Special Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Management
62.       INCRA would be the main executing agency of the project,
responsible for project planning and most infrastructure works. IBDF would
be responsible for forestry planning and technical assistance. Rubber
development activities would be the responsibility of SUDHEVEA, which
promotes rubber production and controls marketing and imports of synthetic
and natural rubber. Technical assistance for rubber production would be
implemented by SUDHEVEA. Agricultural research would be carried out by the
Rondonia Agricultural Research Unit (UEPAE-RO).
63.       Comprehensive annual planning would be essential to project
success. Like the earlier phases of POLONOROESTE, budgets of executing



- 19 -
agencies would be reviewed by SUDECO to assure consistency, and would be
submitted to the Bank for review by January 31 of each year. Some delays
in this budgeting system have been experienced, but as the process becomes
more routine, its operation should be more efficient.
Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       The same monitorig- system used in the prior POLONOROESTE phases
*        would apply to the proposed project to alert management to problems and
provide a basis for annual planning. Data provided on a quarterly basis
would be consolidated by SUDECO. Reports would provide indicators of the
quality of services provided, and preliminary information on project
impact. Quarterly monitoring reports would be provided to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of the respective Northwest Program
fiscal quarter. Project evaluation would be done within the framework
already being implemented by the Economic Research Institute of the
University of Sao Paulo (FIPE) for the whole program. Program evaluation
emphasizes: major program strategies, institutional integration and
performance, and program performances as compared to policy, regional, and
environmental objectives. A mid-term review of program execution is due by
June 30, 1984. A completion report for the Program is to be provided to
the Bank within six months of completion of the Program.
Benefits and Justification
65.       Rubber.  The main perennial crop promoted by the project would be
rubber.  Rubber would provide an environmentally safe cropping opportunity;
moreover its international price is expected to increase about 50% in the
next ten years in real terms. Brazil currently produces about 33,000 tons
of natural rubber per year, but consumes about 75,000 t/year. Of its
domestic production, about 80X comes from relatively inefficient wild
rubber tapping while the remainder is produced at a much lower cost on
plantation and by small holders. High tariffs on rubber imports,
established to protect wild rubber producers and to finance SUDHEVEA
activities, currently result in a 2.5:1 ratio between Brazilian and world
natural rubber farm-gate prices and allow high profits on plantation
production. As plantation production increases, replacing wild rubber
tapping, this protection will become increasingly redundant. Therefore,
the financial and economic analysis of the project was done using the lower
domestic prices expected to prevail when project plantations reach maturity
(about 1995), slightly below the economic price of rubber imported to
Brazil. However, rubber is unfamiliar to settlers whose uncertainty is
further increased by the maturation period which considerably exceeds that
of the more familiar coffee. The incentives described in para. 53 should
help overcome the risk aversion of farmers.
66.       Other Agricultural Production.  Some coffee is expected to be
planted by many settlers, but the project does not promote its cultivation
since no government credit is available for coffee planting. The risk that
areas planted to coffee would exceed the estimated 11,300 ha is limited by
a general lack of suitable soils, the unfavorable market outlook and
Government policies which favor rubber more than coffee. Brazil produces
around 29% of the world's coffee, and contributes some 26% to the world



- 20 -
export market. Low price levels are expected to persist in the medium
term, in light of world economic conditions. World markets are expected to
grow slowly in the next decade. Project coffee production would represent
less than 0.5% of the average Brazilian production during the last two
years or less than 0.2% of recent world production. The severe frost of
July 1981 in southern Brazil killed or severely damaged about 310 million
coffee trees, resulting in a net decrease of areas planted to coffee in
Brazil of some 135,000 ha between 1981 and the end of 1982. The
International Coffee Organization (ICO) of which Brazil is a major member,
has cautioned against investments in projects designed to increase
production significantly, unless such increased production is part of an
integrated rural development program and is offset by reduced production
from marginal areas taken out of coffee. The proposed project meets these
criteria. Incremental production from the project is expected to total
about US$117 million at full development, of which about US$33 million
(28%) would be from rubber, US$24 million from livestock, US$15 million
(12X) from fruit trees, and US$14 million (12%) from coffee.
67.       Producer Income and Fiscal Impact.  The 1982 average income of
the targeted families, many of which are now in the region working as farm
laborers, sharecropprs, or in urban centers, is about US$1,500, below the
rural poverty level for Brazil, about US$2,000 for an average family of
six. At full development (around year 1998), the average annumal farm
family income would increase to about US$6,000. Return to family labor
would more than double.   At full production, taxes on marketed production
would generate revenues of US$9.8 million/year, compared to some US$5.6
million/year which would be required to operate and maintain project
infrastructure. Road user charges would complement this income. The
coffee export tax would generate an additional US$6.6 million of federal
revenue. Investment cost recovery procedures would be put into effect by
June 30, 1984 and would allow the recovery of the equivalent of about 40%
of all project infrastructure investment costs in real terms (Section 3.04
of the Loan Agreement).
68.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return to the
directly productive components of the proposed investments (representing
about 88% of total project investment costs) has been estimated at 26%,
including noa-agricultural income generated in the NUARs. For other
aspects of the project which have significant but no readily quantifiable
benefits, no economic rate of return was calculated.  Non-economic benefits
include establishment of a replicable system for cost-effective settlement
and introduction of planning techniques to minimize the degradation of the
Amazonian environment.
Project Beneficiaries and Employment
69.       Project infrastructure and services are expected to benefit all
15,000 farm and some 5,600 urban families expected to settle in the project
area by 1988. Agricultural activities generated by the project would
require 29,000 man-years of familv and hired labor annually, at full
development. The education component would reach some 20,000 students.
Investment costs per farm and urban beneficiary family, at March 1983
prices, including physical contingencies, are of the order of US$4,100, to



- 21 -
which on-farm investments of the order of USS6,500 should be added for the
15,000 farm families. These figures compare favorably with worldwide Bank
experience of an average per family settlement cost in rainfed areas of
about US$11,000 in 1983 prices.
Environmental Impact
70.       The project gives particular consideration to improving
settLement planning techniques to reduce risks of soil erosion and to
maintain poor agricultural areas under forest cover. The project would
introduce selective techniques of tree crop development and train farmers
in continuous annual cropping with fallow periods to avoid shifting
cultivation. Means to maximize the economic use of timber would be
developed, together with techniques for the rational and sustained use of
those legal reserve areas which have forestry potential. Without the
measures being introduced by the project, there is a greater probability
that unsuitable soils would be utilized for settlement, and that steep
slopes and river banks would be eroded. Other environmental concerns of
the region, including Amerindian protection, are being attended through the
Northwest I Agricultural Development and Eavironmental Protection Project
(Loan 2060-Ba).
Risks and Uncertainties
71.      The administratVve requirements of the project would add to the
complex decision-making process of the Northwest program, and involves
institutions which are strained in human and financial resources. Some
delays could occur if funds were not released on time, complementary staff
is not allocated or coordination were loose. The commitment of project
agencies to make staff available as required, to improve monitoring and
evaluation procedures, and Bank financing of 50Z of overall  costs the first
two years should help reinforce the major pro-ect institutions.  The
capability of various agencies to train extension, health and education
staff and retaiv them within the project area thereafter will have a
crucial impact on the long-term results of the project.
72.       The project area is located in an environmentally sensitive
frontier area where lower quality soils are more abundant tbhn in earlier
settled areas of the region. There is debate among knowledgeable
agronomists as to how rapidly i4mmgrant farmers would adopt a technology
appropriate to Amazon soils with moderate to marginal fertility. The laad
use planning and agricultural plot allocation process under the project are
more sophisticated than in previous public or private settlements in the
region and should help select both adequate soils and more knowledgeable
settlers. Expanded technical assistance aad appropriate credit would help
to promote rubber development. To reduce areas initially planted in annual
crops or given to grazing because of limited credit and labor availability,
the special studies financed by the project would help develop new
perennial cropping strategies. The risk of expansion of areas under
extensive use as a result of a gradual concentration of land ownership can
be reduced through strict settler selection criteria, close mDnitoring of
future changes in land ownership and of the reasons for such changes,
adequate credit resources and early planting of perennial crops, all
provided by the project.



- 22 -
73.       Settlement in virgin Amazon regions entails a variety of
environmental risks resulting from a combination of climatic conditions,
fragile soils and lack of knowledge of the region. In order to avoid
spontaneous settlement on unsuitable soils, excessive exploitation of farm
and fish resources, clearing of steep slopes or river banks and improper
management of the forest reserves, a number of measures were incorporaced.
into earlier phases of the Northwest program. This project puts further
emphasis on a variety of precautionary measures, such as improved selection
of agricultural areas; promotion of perennial crops as far as possible;
smaller individual plots than in earlier settlements; agglomeration of
irnividtal reserves into blocks; some salvage logging operations; and
strengthening the protection of natural reserves, water sources and
endangered species. Notwithstanding all these measures, the risk of
negative project impact on the environment is real, but the measures
incorporated into the project and the overall Northwest program would
provide acceptable standards of environmental control.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMNTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of
Rondonia and the Bank, the draft Supplemental Letter, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Failure by the Borrower or Rondonia to comply with any covenant
agreeme-t or obligation under the Loan and Project Agreements for the
northwest region first- and second-phase projects would also constitute an
event of default on the Loan and Project Agreements for the proposed
project, pursuant to the Bank's General Conditions (draft Supplemental
Letter).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bark.
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 4, 1983
Washington, D. C.



-23-                                              AMNl  I
P-B =a of 5
osu            mmoW   T   5
tum        Im             -    Lm A!amu      a       inc=              1
hUMos                          Ul35W305  (t1U           13a3  I
,9.h         p     um,r          LA?F. e3244*1                30.
AM CCI.  i
TOM.                             U12.0      332.0       3312.0
AmIg,.mL                1~~~~621.3  19332      309.5
11  E  6*3  GM)                     320.0       KILO.      222.0           20z2                     2433.6
_r _ur  o cwm
(EZL=M  eV C6. Nui, iLiw         383.O       377.0     time.             107.4                   310.3
uina!in AM vm mumm
PoSATN1.110-U   CTEUIU)  7239.0    9597.0    120507.0
urn  733.12mE Cs Or 70753       4644       35.9       43                3.9                      7.
JtPC3A710  130225?0150O=X                                x 
lOM.4TZC If 63M 2380 M6L)                             176.7
sT_YOIU3  1033A70 0=L)                                2".0
TM 3701033 VW. WAC*D                                  2110
Sl 15. ML.                        .3        11.3       13.9             35.6                     32.0
3   t. ML  It. LlS               4.6         8.4       33.4             9.2        -            137.2
70334706 Ac 57316103  (1)
0-14 YS                         43.6       42.7       41.1             40.1                     31.9
1.-4 us                          53.6       54.3       33.4            S3.                       60.9
6S5AM ABOV                       2.6         3.1        3.3              44.                      7.2
TOTS.                             3.1        2.6        2.1              2.3                      1.6
033*3                             5.3        4.7        3.9              3.7                      3.4
C=z  mu1 am CU5R                  43.7        33.0       30.3             31.5 23
CAUS DrA1l (= Cm  DODS3           12.9        10.3        3.2              3.1                     9.1
mSS  _moT?  i x                    3.0         2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.7
ACCTO5. JML C( 3)                  ..      111.0      203.41c
cRs CZ or NAAR= Wu=                ..         ..
OF  OW    M  CU
(1949--100)                       39.0       102.0      123.0           1t.0                      108.4
PE CAPWIA SU1, Q
CS I7  CEF 3r501133315)         106.0      10*.0      109.0            1L1.3                    L29.6
ft15  (C5MJI 153Of)             64.0        62.0       61.0             47.9                     92.3
Or UuRW ANIWA AM PLE            3.0       34.0       36.0O1           34.1                     34.6
OLDCA (GAI  1-4) 01473 aE         19.4        12.5        6.9              5.3                    10.4
LIF  EDIC. AT 31111 (13*83)        34.7       SLS        63.6             64.6                     67.2
bUW r M. 3srA (CPE  306)         118.2       9a.6        73.4             62.6                     71.4
ACCESS TO SAE VATS (Do?)
TOTM.                              ..      35.0        77.11.           64.8
URUAW                             ..       O78.0       sL87;            77.3
-m,.               ..        23.0        56.;            44.3..
ACS TO EtA DDSPOSL
CZ or POPMATOS
TOM                                ..      35a         44..             34.0
Sa"                                ..       85.0        3.7             69.3                      ._
-llUL  ._  24.0    3t.17;           29.6
POPMATIO0 PM p3IICXAN           3670.0      2130.0     17OO.00         1774.0                   1094.3
POP. M KMSIr   SOI              2810.0      1120.0 a      0.07!         1012.2                    762.3
Po-P   mpiL so
TOTSL                           310.0      270.0      250.01          477.0                    334.0
D34                             260.0      320.0         .67.5                                  216.0
ROUT.                              ..         ..         ..           1921.6
sss5oW5s PM WsPTAL so               ..        1.4          ..             27.2                     20.0
-o;-
AVEREA  SXZt Or 3O5E3OD
TOTAL                             5.S1       4-         4.9/.
URBA                              ..         4.6        4.77;.
RRAL                               ..        5.2        5.37; 
AIRRAe 3O. or PERSOIISAROaI
TOL                               ..         1.1
03345                             ..         1.0
RomAL                              ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELE!CT CZ OF OiWLIUC)
TOL                              38.7       47.6       67.4
SUSA                               ..       75.6      3U.5
R                                  ..        8.4       20.6



-24_                                        AI= I
Psge 2 of 5
BRAIaL                             X DCATOR  DATA  1
siam                  REfERENCE GIOUPS (HEcIQETE  AYEam) /a
HOST                     CEST RECENT  TIIA) /b 8     I
_Q2E r           XXODM IIIOE            5IOL lims
,,601k     1970&  ESTfflATSLk    LAT. AMRICK &Coi              tEnw
AaJUS:ED C0LLIT RaTos
PEIIART:  VOTAL                  95.0        84.0        93.0&           105.0                    102.2
MALE                   97.0       84.0        930/R            106.3                    107l2
FE:ALE                 93.0       84.0        93.Ojj           103.6                    97J9
SEaNIIAKT: TUTAL                  11.0       26.0        32.0/&t.         40.6                     56.5
rAgE                   11.0       26.0        ID.0 , h         Ja16                     63.4
FEltAL                10.0       Z7.0        35.0              1.2                     4.9
VOCATIONAL  . OF SECONDARY)         8.S        16.7        59.Z             36.0                     22.6
PUTPIL.-TEACHEK  0ATI
f5tflfl                           33.0       26.0        26.0             30.7                     24.7
SECOFA                            13.M       !3.0        I4.0/b           lb.7                     ZZ.1
ADUL  LITEAC! RATE (C)             61.0        W.2         7h_U             79.5                     69.7
PASSuGER CAlslIMOGSAsD POP          7.6        16.6        50.1             45.6                     52.9
ADIO RECE1VEES/DTOUSAID 0P?        65.4       10.4 L.69-3                  228.2                    165.5
TV RECEIVERS/TUSASD VW              16.5       46.3       u2Z.7            108.3                    12Z.z
ISDn3Esr) CIRCULATIO
PM WJUSAND POPULATIOS             39.1        35.6        44.61b          6"-1                      96.3
CUsII ANNAL ATrESDASCEAPITA         4.4         2.0         1.9/h            Z.9                      2.9
TOAL LADL FORCE C(tl9S)         23326.0    3011.0    35ZS4.0
FElIE (PERCET)                   17.2        20.1       28.5             27.8                      34.5
aGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            51.9        45.6       29.9              31.3                     60.7
150SMt (PERCENT)                 14.8       tU.3        24.4              23.9                     Z3.4
PARTCIPATIOS RTE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             32.1       31.7        29.3             31.3                     42.0
MALE                              52.7       50.3        50.9             49.8                     55.2
FEMALE                           Li.2        12.6        14.1             14.8                     Z9.1
ECUOKIC DEPENDENC  RATIO            1.4         1.4        1.5               1.4                      0.9
PEMOENr OF PRVwaS INCME
RECEIED  Y
HIGHEST 5 OF IUISESLDS             ..          ..
miIaESr Z  OF MOUSEDLUS          60e.        63.5       62.0/C
LWEST 202 OF  JSUEMOLDS           3.8         3.2        2-0__
LOUES? &a OF iiousEHOWS          10.8         9- 99.                        .
ESUI C ABSOWLUE POVERrm INCOME
LEWD CUSS PEm CAPrIA)
- URBAN                            ..          ..          ..            289.8
RURAL                              .L --                j50.0/c          186.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY l1fE
LEa . CUSS PE  carr)
URBA                               ..          ..       465.0/4          519.8
BURAL                              ..          ..       332.07C          372.1                    409.0
ESTIMTED POP. BEUH ABSOLUTE
POVEYt lmCGME IVEL (-)
URBN                               ..          ...
RURAL                              _            _          .                ..                       __
MrT AVAILABLE
NOT APLICABLE
N O T E S
la The groap aerage  for macb ilicator are popslatiou.sttghted arithmetic mans. Covera  of cOuntries mug the
indicacors depends on avilability of data and is not   Qtora.
lb Unless otherwie noted. -Data for 1960' refer to any rdr bLcwen 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; ad data for mloar Recent EsciLateC beteen 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; /. 1976; /f 1974; /A Begnning 1973 priary ed secondary edncation cover age grops 7-14 and 15-17
InateZdof 7-1OLd  11-Iris earlier years; tberefore  Mt recent estiates are not comparable  ihe          data;
/b 1978.
Hay 1983



-25-                                                            -N  
Page 3 of 5
mimi  5AkIEis. two "ata al diemo ftm  aa.-  gamrstl J.""a  KA "ai mibnsKaL. am lalis.. St abad *Imm to Mt" was they my Ori leiiambm
mswaraw.bls  m   . .1 v.s imek C sum.11di5t dat 1.1Kms go samoa. -nd h, difirnM  ewmlis  in asilaa1   ms da"a. lb dai  on. amaib"ow. mali
lb asftmas BMW. si  ct) mi's mm  ONi""  ana" at Kb ssblaa amuta ad [v)a smu,p vs"9 51Kb smIt 15gb, sarsai  leaves a lbo gau                        m?pm 
mbjml mowily (saap  ftr 3i5  ?nmmV  CI1 ismitar. an"a ibis  KHOls Enmag NW"1  AiM"8     g ad 103. 'm is aftmae baism atstaa  mS-s
erfilOulmel.  b. is. tm -.... iui dat mis SiS     -. popOletime i-lo la1a~iama-.      I  em fat minS Idsmita  ad pume mtl 'Ws inishu  of Kb mKmw                 l as
BMWa isa dai Pal m%S= SIditaf   stm VW  om.sraga at amlais  mm% Kb idlemaii  ;.Pods melt. asiahUmtu   mg dais a" lsa onidmla. mumt  met is
mercmiad ma MlIMS" -aM- Of mm imimASOR Sm aiail.. Its..sa-.a*W aff salt mma"a S. ainaulw th. Otlms at ema 90Ea., as O elm mmOR it., mmil -as
iataammarmpss                        ammml ra iwes NC
li.'   isia.       MA                                                                                          Fasalamias iftlItlrdllan  5t 51rafpamitarsdp
we-t iesmiai atwmzuw   t    mmpaOt'taaah                                          aaualwiatmm.alasa                             m    rais  s is-
% Murml    ~     ~     ~     atsame am  WMm   Mist atm.                              sla. 5"b. se    ii, Wi p.1m   6mmmi ad soasis   s%ia
w .- miiOthd                                 b sl  i  las( 411 silmibLlita  mmii.   misfisau dra s.abtO&simi   aamemi,y Miti
1160. 11.S 191daIs.                                                                        by aImt  ma Oqsllim.  smbtahssima stsidiase salsutssly aGomm""
tacs am Oma imClad. NatAl Imrladse. lsmsa. Inta." balmcOs a
WIT   ~~       Pit Im-al  -       sps1ataamem  maWIMcms. at   muaacl                      .dial maigas  "tw  sMmit wafta fd  at lisislm  (bat b a adiml
2p=imly m.   Ms amZ        .1u. "at...a.6 mharl am ad fPts-~. OemiSt                        asmtm  mm    inKa             a  -mim  arrem is-estume miafLmn so
mml 1mibth-l almisiaftmyl is hL!qrma at  -l Omia.mlme sat asIb                             saaiisa lalm  raw.      mulasi ftaittts. Vat astitatsma   pnrsams
low. mm. OW  ist data.                                                                     sibat bapi4mals hlaa    lslaama stalftm             so. ad Turat
bamptcala. lamI at .ina basiial ad ada  ad miassla  mum
Mt                                                                    SPN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISaiitid beestasd   arm. lackat Sal, aeda  laisi-
As of aMty'l INCis. 1970. ad 191lasM                                             aa  mbaw or  Mmisa         Ws Wtdl
mm~ Katietism IUD. Imm. adl mI11 data.                                                         90       instu
Tw.etePrautlaMm,                                                                           a
zw ~     ~  ., Tom- hra-c pamtatlam-  am      ime-  %..ai -  Iis          m          miss. mis m.l A.   bm.ia  am Idga Wr my   mrn  Wi is I-El."a  I
mat. ipMi  . 75 ad smea W  lb"C smlartaLz  Wi atli y                             lb  K lO   ar   tiimL pnsams.
Emus. tusJmasaa inanaisa SWm amaUmy rsca. 1mne at tamensm                                        tatim              a            m       mb.wm    d       O-lorin   ~
Isasla smails US . a,mmsamy at hrit 11 laGamai  -la  mmiesf  sat                       OC sas   5.ta    s          MO. adisi             d    iia
myp.-im mm. ueal. ad tmail. liue miamtSu  suabihtali at P7.3                           dmUSEK  tmmipoclsai. iblli1K   semilb mrspasumit ai mn~  ad
Pala.-l   sam V  aa,. Lm fa Ltumy tism ala. baa ibmm Ictal                                SiWi  Ii.
mauiu  daimlia in issulit   -"aia  Ws Imem  lasal ad PsM  foully                      ctims=ltrat,(aas at disIlia     iss. Ia ad awal -
plamelf paltrmsma   smk -amity is Kiss asa&Bsa mat ofKb.. aims                         usmm Mskbllp   il   immyi  159   mi    ma maSnSia
imasI     .1mtaUlti ad ftstLUTt Ktemm  lam DraJaitia      saSi5.                 at isa.aS,            w am  d-Inilag  ipnsaitml.
stalmm,v p lw&-   M.   Stilinmes  esapaisKs   amrs is in, ON.t"
ailami  anl. -MaaS.    Ibis  1. A-Mhiaa   ash  af.. tailil tM.                            i
=au    sl   emmelsetn IsMM 51  welK-l apd arowa MesKs. lsato                                                                       551  .aadIil
ma   t maais "Ifwmmt tea I  Ea odei Maitl MOalbm emctm.                           M        M       ly_         al5aU a iisdSd    aa       auam.  na
sa,.IaKm  aIme Om! mtIGw    lb. blal0 atlb  utrjamid  amriacter-                         piaty ilbsI-ev  lK9a5timesi -aamlll SmigsOm  abidema ad hail
swumi  Ot lb pap-mcsOa is lb yet zm. am mis tamm   t d-amlIm at                          yin. isi JSl  ta- drTtmL l.aumi .1 pesmory dmltmQ           u  atw
T-          am   ia  i. aaa             O amml.                                         salad-y.,, aibal -u usta, salt Or  fsalame0 - Inlaad Si 5bm      a.
KalamlIUD. ilt, ad Lowa dais,                                                      mails maslly a .12 is 17 pats at ev: esetmpaalamr once" man
taram  i. mtalira   lad - sampavema Si    - alm    am asllatmeml la                     mtal  amdt
-tLa   .19- pat   dmt                         aams   tadia                                 ii at Si "                                                i
ft.smm:xse  iM    ad mi- Cdaat-    P4 Ymm-Kaamis-r ,atisaaaw     metan.L. ad  O~th"    - ha   aia                                          eaa aid is-
is   ImIsil   mmlin  asia Cu.aa 7-  mata-l  - im  gisaLM asm   aty 1.. adalyadtidmy                                 affl setda"T Iymer    tit5isl  St
,anpaaata   Xtat S         a. mad  ma1L-a.                                        -mP-&lia  laa..4
!!!jaz.as   aam   amCsa-aac)  a mba - Amm-l simmIb usi  at ail-                       daimItiiam   IRat (      s), - UzMeaft dais Cablm. isld ad wigs) is,
,aw.miamfat  u0-5. lit-JO  adilt5.                                            a  atampa KmldaIsalestisa  sa 131m   ad ame.
Cad. limit baa (ma ismsadl   im     l- limb par Ka f  Ol ad-
ysa samiazm;lis.    llt ad 1931L dta.  p- O.--  Of                                     Si
SaasLsiiaalstmG .  ly ft, ad110 dais         dm1 Ia W.   mmat. amiss                                     -M&L F-01  Ws ..... amiad  aila na. b               ad-
l"It.                                                                                    LImm"W rataisrt is CM ft"a em s  paaaaev lbs rqisarahsa  ar adft
~mt1              . alsaI tilasiada  - aml ..Am  at -mMaICa                       OWCa am is aft-*: ai -tat tai-C Ymms my mat is tniaabi. ai-mO
at  m    mara 4sm... no.. imima   aIaiiiy iLnata                                              ?lrtm .lliim1    tamsa
" 13-- (em-t     -ft"   -1 - F.,.V  aamai jr tamtt  mtiatw   - V  ini...  at-Lmma i
all- MaId                                                       -ma taa  a.aias         s..M   r Cir.ls.f ta ImmPem tima   aatOO ia- ti -memO   tim 1 I
r-ml mmd 1. me -1-d- Y- W-". CM-dltl- C-                            llalaisaa at 5l1iy0Saista.  latlau   m sa,ata. atimd aNb a Orm
atim  a..dama  Of sI.. ta   mamadll.Pdmtma da.-      1         - mats ad                  s i  dtl  11iiaeam  amI         dsitit .._ a mah.
matt_ me ad  ~ anar ilad)   55.51  ata-taaa. at nb mmly7 Ia                              mail. Owits.
dams.                                                                         155W -ISut p   rt    -  -     Owo"   e..6,a.    .   - f
-*t.. O ad IMS  is amats..  Si  MUiIS  ami.4  -%Im  fad". ""O.                           ampamahi; LowS. 110 Kmm  190  dams.
4imatlal   -ad is lad P--aIi. -ad 1emm is diatrolla          .                              = C-O)- 74.4a LAWa fIme. Si sarMotasa  at us laba  farm.
mOrmaai st Oammmtad by FA  badm Si a%m&IgaSiatal maftsf         -Ze tatm-si                         O9pl3 aIu    !     Cab.,talu   iesetm . tammia. bamtsms ad
V                  OCU-1.7mlisa  ad lathS mamm-alia              -W--msa  maaait. lady msta                  Sdj11P1iSd..w. at  -Ita  abat tal; list. 1970 ad lIta dat.
am adm  dIaflIilas Of IpaslsIla. adl a11mIi It  patmat tam  -mam                       lamgj.tayi                  tmeO . is asi. Siimm atrOSim. Omefewaftfta
am  smaId mOAsal 1960141. 197K ad 1i  dam.                                                        "-Claaiiy. must. ad sm at pamams af Imas LaSSe ramc; itWA.
VWt aatsala  aaaai.   ttm? imt ma- am at pa  mt                                              1570 adl 191 ata.
-C aaspi            M~ka   a  a . m mupl    ta  ma datisa  W abam.                     fsKlWuibt tm-twl - intil. saR1 a   taal -   ftattilsia  or
lasiSam   tat al   aiis1- KbIa    by Cs"4 al-Z&O tat alam                         aMlIlMy  ZaI   at aiiama  ma is . m  .  dl la-l Raba tals  -
a11am.-O at it a"ma attiml iwrama. pat day ad 20 sta   OF mimsI ad                       Oaamis    atmas. mdl. ad faint "Mapailia  O1 OIL m- rmmaecsal
pats pasas kat chil 1M atm. aiSm,d ba -isaI Pesu.l. lisa                            lInc. 5910. Oimd S datamc. Thbsa  ama sa  in Zlt. smcaittmea mum
*             .tmdada mm lamt tIm~b  alm a  si 1  tm  at taa p.1.1. -d z3 at.-                         mslals-amnats t lb aaa.Ulatt. Od 1590 al-a alR. A
Ot mimi amtsts   me    --.Wass  tar lb. wIld. praam       rAt Vat i   b.                 155 aKimK.a ma trm StimlSl
mmit  bald tadt kIwi. 19-61. 1970 md ISis dam..                                         aitiIdwSi  Sif RLLO at Imp.a-silm  a  LS ad IS ad  -m  Ma
ftar maim. taKlimal f..miiadam  -  p.51.5  fsl at tCadlami
CA-L-4O a   tis    am-l Ip                ndy   ii         itad 19177
dai.                                                                                INCMt  UUarO
0015 (ama taIl JmIem ia  hms)- &ia   dmlb p.r tismad 15                                  P. ~       Wat   amaIi   sit   d   al-siis  by  ubaim  5
MP at-.v l-. yam.           , u   slt   m mil  wa.p. far OmOt O-lsatpla                  pamm   iia   Opamm   sts   splms.a   ats 0 mata  at
ladaad-sLsd la  lit. LAhIm; list. 1970 ad lilt Cs-.                            isasmsda.
stAllS                                                                                   tOimlY TANta? mMOW
~U7  amrumt at  llil  aiFL -M_ma.4W         tpar  !lt  rmsiL910                    lb[laO    aa             t st   ptlsaa m   at latn: Isma.a
at stt;  9. I911           I 6at- das                                                     bdi  itiapmad slab cOmaldweahla aaaltsa
laiaaa iaala  Sa- C",r mb-..Ma   - dmal daarl  O! Wstmi  -d.r maaIa.tad SbImata pas-i 2mm 1.5.1 html "a tpr. -aImsa   wa 
1.  am Uli. pat bma          11K  iti 19lis. 197 ad 1901 da.                              amOmLia P-sarY lmti   -Laa  maaaimlsiOmml      iis
Oama   a.tt.ltai   1amslm   .a..  ial   d  aal-mli.1ILOtIy OdaIS-a Clam pIta ammita ama-ta  asaa                                                       ..    t
mm  a  pampia155.mi,a    ml)am   mmbattm   usr maltatrdahl..
mamtmiasma-d Sia    a  m O.. F-m pratmid b-asaaa. apluas. sad                            Sa-at taaii   p-,la                                             -pg-aa I  n.b.Ca  smsast111
ammay   il)     ... ptmamamaf atb.&sm  tmPattl  patCtlmi. i- atPalmai & mamm   at b mary. 191t la-a  t.. daitad it 0.a   --Irta
slm Ot   p6a1. tam5aa  MmOlpall Iaaa  Wit a-l  atwO  Mi Sica-                         1.-.l sItb dim u  tat b -iit m           it-1111.0i  .lm atmO.
E-m  a   m.-  ma is  -Mmlatd -  51wm aimbls t-aab. ta    a  Of tbtaiidtmai   llsiaaatti..lrapy.mia~
't.   at7 K.  f-bamll   satha.1   ll     Caaltiatast  tp.
lb ay s amalsiKbtmlly -pm.. pad..c- t- 2p
atrmaistaras iasmi(arill at amZtaim -  t.bst. sSa. Cd
rata  --cOr .1               byt.(mml mtib-. rd     .,al  iirt. by a famraaa                                                            meY_Kl_O "-
WLapasaml a. pam-stiOa.  lcmb-                                                                                                          mm lowppoalm.ttti   isaa



- 26 -
AUX I
*UC 1rGTS
Papolaeti        119.0 mlleo  tl19e0D
GNP For capita: u5s2.050 l1960)
bZdcator                                 _em                       Av    ApMI  ncreas  (                     Share Of CW  at * rt et Prc    l
--31211.. USS Cbrrat)              (at Msrmat 1970 Pole.)                          Cot currut Ir'IeCr
1921 *              1945-10    1          1975-rn    8661-6           9i70        tg7$      I96 h
Gross DomUtic Produect a                        2e9.000                7.7      1K_.         b.9        2.9           1O.0       100.0 8M10.
AgrleuLture                                    35.333                1.9        5.7        4.7        4.5            10.2      10.9       14.1
Lqatr                                          78.391                9.z       11.4        7.4        .06           35.8       37.Z       31.6 
Ser.lt.s                                      133.10e                6.0       10.7        4.6        4.1            54.0       51.9      $3.9
Consumtioe                                      215.940                7.7        9.8        5.7        3.3            77.8      74.4       74.7
Gross tuvestent                                  60.75s                9.4       14.4        5.2        3.4            22.7       21.1      21.0
EtPorts of Good and UFS                          22.10                4.2       11.2        7.3        4.5             G.?        7.5       7.7
taporta of Conds sd  KM                          24.613               14.S       17.2        2.6        4.4             7.2       11.4       I.S
Gross Domutic Savings                          58.317                7.9       12.9        5.1        -              22.Z       23.4      20.2
Aeount                 L-eeale ba:aJ tnrease CI)             Coepositia  oF Ple6_hdl e Trad  CZ)
CIUllM  ISS Orst)              Cat constant 1970 Ptries)                    Cat carrsu  Writs.)
192                1970-75        1975-80     1991-6                 1910        1975      1960
,brch,dae Tr-de
Nercadime teports                               20,164              11.1            7.7            2.J                 100.0      100.0      140.0
Primry e2                                      6.914               6.3            1.1           0.                  76.7        6z.7       36.3
Nasfacetrn di                                 10.963              28.2           16.2            5.5                  22.3       34.8       57.1
erchmadi" ltazrts                               19.397              14 -           -3.3            1.2                 100.0       100.0     100.0
-Food (cereals)                                1.000              -4.7           17.5                                 4.5         3.0        4.8
Petrolo                                       10J826               7.6            4.3         -11.0                  11.2        25.4       51.3
Machinery aV Equie.uzl                         3.272              15.2           -7.S            2.0                  34.2       3.2  111.2
Other                                          4.999              264            -1.9           4.3                  46.1        39.4       25.7
1975         1976          1977          1973          1979          160             896           1942
Prrte sod larms of Trad.
GDP Defla or  4 970 - 100)              305.1         4_43          432.7         8S          1399.4        2.724.6       5S.96J        11,1088.
Eschae ate (Cr51US5)                      6.8          10.4          14.t          16.1    I    2.9            52.7           91.1        U1.O
Export PrIce  Index (L970 - 100W         12.0         19z.0         224.0         221.0         266.0         290.0         252            2ZOO
Import Pric  Iodws (1970 - 100)         242.0         255.0         286.0         317.0         369.0        431.0          474            522.0
Ter_ of Trade 1de  (1970 - 100)         72.0          75.0          79.0          72.0          6.0           47.0          53             42.0
Ca  Crm  Crums,ro Prcees)
1970          1975            1979           1960 1 Al    19 l/   1162 Il
Public Fleaes (Coetral Coseremn_n)
OnTeSt Rayemie                                                             14.6           19.6            20.6           20.1         18.9    21.2
orreot Elp!dlture                                                          14.4           15.6           17.6            19.6         20.2    25.4
Surplus C+) or dfttct  -)                                                   2.2            4.0             3.2             0.3        -1.4    -4.2
Capital Espaudur.                                                          - 2.6           3.8             3.7            4.1          3.5      3.4
Fluancng tllet)                                                             0.4           -0.2             0.5            3.9          4.9      7.6
195-70         1970-75          1975-79            1I51-"6 
Other l.dicaror.
CUP Cruitb Rate C33                                                        7.7             10.7              5.8                2.1
CGP per Capita Greoth Rate (:)                                             4.6              7.7              3.0               -0.5
Energy Couauprion Growth Rate (U)                                         7.2              7.3             6.5                 -
IOR fl                                                                     2.9              3.0             3.9                 3.2
Nargiol Salmp late fJ                                                     20.5             25.7             22.7               24.0
Zaport El-tticty   l                                                       Z Z.            1.6             0.3                -0.6
a/  At mrhet prices; compoonts are nt doastic products e  r..asd at factor cet sad vil not add  ,  to  ,aclbal   of d.prtelat-lo  ad Indirect
taCs less subsidie.
b/  Estiate.
/   Ielude--  coffee Cbeen. and soluble). other agrlculture and  tn..eal-
dl   Includs: _mufactred and semi-proceawed
./   incluks:  traapOrtation _terials
fl  the 1981-86 prjectlos are averae arlthmtic n-  of the siz-7wur
'i   1930 ad 1961 Include gseremoet epasdlture *f efctd tbrough rbh  woetery badger sd  nos, wimr Xn-rmn_nt funds. *  ru  as tranfer  t. the
federal enterprIses.
Augut 1. 1983
SoPrce. C-0ojotur. Ecosaia FJV 1ac.o Gntral do traail. Brail Staadard Model (hald Srk)



latn  i. tg  t_ul  S-
.gS.1.          I  31). (1150) C
t                                                                   3*sf         *91    t 9,          sWeas       31         510         33             3*         1W           fl         WS    *l
8 ..-                                               MGM10    Cao.bjs    (1.,33    (32419)   (35.314         mo112      (33.3931       33.34       33.03       35.1       29.165     "33.4
t    1w. .1 Gd                                             (--13.30    C-Um.w3  t-33.0a    (-33.5)   (-45. )  (-22.99)   (-12.10)              1-33.mn1   (14.31    C-37.mn2   IMAM21  (-21.93t)
s.t   _ _   _                                           -12.73     _-3.3       -2.3       -1_        -W3)7  ..313   -421    -..            -32.103    -3.16'    -r3,2.3      -3.51l   -34.n31
c.. *.., .. o......o ,.,n...) 1_.                    (-1. 4,15)   (-1.113    -2.103)   (-3.M)    ".4.8)   1431)   C-1.911                  MI12,   (9.1m2)       3.13.   (11.3)  1*0.415)
lBt _lr  _"te_                         .1,        ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~-t,)O  -t.5  -4.2  _-2.        -3,t11     -2.7            -3.241     -I."        -42.2      -2 *s      -,2.72
151 IU.iso.                                                    2      1               -         II     t     4        *45         397            397 a1w                31         ivy        1 3
*5..o  0515-.1  _-.0t7  -4.63?    -4.035    -3l.523    -*.2        -30.47         -11.53      -7.11H      -t.43t      5.4    -_.12
.....,,M t-5.                                                 I3                   531       3I   n .e0            B3.I.0   t30                1.401      1.763       1.t,3      2.Mb      Z.G3
1582 1. -                                                  4.3         S3.2       5.M2       30          S.0        3.7.        9.463          f.3        9.216    * .20 *   4.33*          5.S16
5154...45.                                              (t.U733    13.3*0)    (9t.363)   (*3.144     (_(11.13)   (*015)   (.n] -           (13s3*l   (*7.34)   (*4.13        (35.43   (041l4)
(-.XM3     -.11    -.3)    (-3.144)    -4.43*1    (-SA410.3  (-?79)4)             (-4.4711    (-1*155    (-5.134    (-I33.342)(-.14
40.,_13.. 1.... t_t).4 (.41a -*10                                      -as          W -3 7                            41*  434  -3            .1.53      -t.,1      -1.1        -1.16     -aim
- .1 *   .1.                                          215         9)4     -I.334       -4.          416      4.063       1.3*3.0        *.at&       -70         .4        --49        40
U     1                                                       gm9     -1.192 _      _        -4.34        3.3I)      1.l         -my 410*                 -1.11      -3.:s1        -60       -am
tto....13..  1...._ . 1                                      4.04*t     4.34        7.1       ll.39       9.3"   * .91)          145            L.W         4*,)       S.31        1.9* 3    *.MI
4....... - ..1_3. _ _.d.t 1. *                                              4.3         7.3    t 30            CA         3.5        4.3            2.2         L3         3.4         1..       X.
r~~~        ~~          U,                                                           
3.0-1 lb1-,wo5"
i           1  ...=. .  _3 _                                          23953      3          4.1         St4 .342   14.5        3.3            71.3
15411. _  P_tc1   1.43.7                                            lJ9        23.39      30.26       35.433     3m.o       43.m            48.3)
*fl143.                                                2.91*       4.431      4.717      2.41         .59        .41        7.10           5.303
3530                                   (1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0921    (1.317*    (1.413)    (1.402)    (1.521  (2.m9  "so)19    (2.44)
_5157                      sa(2.94                            (3.214)    (3*1o       (?9        (4153)    (4o.341)     M.U           0C.n7)
_.555*                                          9.747     12.31       WM.Z       2U.153   J,.S          31.53       374           40.1*0
741w.. ...-g..*..d                         9~~~~~~~~~.3  11.133  13.15)     14.32       35.154     *4.33)     39.19          23.3
145.d .41 (p.41. _10                                 3.519       ken3       913s    141.315       33.4"I     14.151      *4.935          MIN6
;-7-    1 &W 91_1..                        &.93        5.3*0      9.33      33.14       31.11A     Raj=5      Isla"9          M1116
15411. ..4p-*0 4r Ge   --                                3.7*        4.tzl      1.42   a 144           9.U5    w .15   U .9U7
-5*5  q1  -."-                                           4n1         405       *I"         44          449        4*7         31             732
11,                                                     50          173        *93        V1                     3e3        w              31
4oh- -9.11114059.. 1a DS                                             1 t        93        13US                    172
0r~  'tU.931                                                      *.M        4.5        9.23        3.9        7.2        5.313          *313 
151.... .....w4..1..d                    ~~~~~~3.1314  3.339     3.15       5.046      3.1         31)         .
ss_1     ,n                                     4.19)      4.233      5.44    _ .__3        12.14       *3133      14-.9          17.3
135.3.51   (15*)                                       (1.47)    (143         (1.4)1)    (743        (3.1)1)    03.414)    (7.7m           (5.51)
7)5313.   .o*sw .48as                                43.0       36.7        42.3       15.        33.         40.        15.            T7.A
151w0. so 294                                                 3.9        2           30         3.?        4.3         4.8        2.             4a.
_qi             mt. *-  _tv6u  am().I07                                    7.6         8.3        16         11.2       iw    I     S.2            13.6
-  -  -Z         ~                         7.1        7.9         5.         7.5        8.3         9.1         .             -
7.9  4147*1  U    355Wi Z                                  9.0        11.2       *0.        30.0        II.)         .         9.7 I10
ftt.".  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     354        14.3       14.1        34.5       34.0        12.9       13.8 
P01.3*. .5.....                                           7.0        9.3         I..        9.t    * 1.3    a-           a      .9           -
MW = .                                        ~~~~ ~~~~~~4.1  4.3      4.1        3.4        3.4         3.5        3.4            3.1
a3lla41.b..mJo332 9.1  d1sbwu33s a3                        3.3        3.1        3.)        1.5         L          3.4         3.8            3.2
Z 4_.         .S.     4    n*   (3                                       3.2         .1          7         2.          2.                        Z.
1535.                                                          _  d  _
l4501 900k. 3523.55554.
e 551*. 4. .13.53.e3
I  1- U-     450 Lt -I- 303599
I.El _6   *353l- 19.55 1  * 155U5317_ 1
/      . Is t _?.-|*s -*- 
lC 151 _. ptt
Il1131 44053.I--.2t f   ad                                a   "
VW_      - t_    1 d.U            _  U_u              _   e 
J7 si.
f        - wu9.t 3IF.
li          w  BU  b-IJS   b       1.6
C;~~~'IM A2tft Vt _  WU; _CSM.O 7"   Clkd Md



- 28 -
AEX f
Page 1 of 3
THE STAUJS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RAZIL
A.  SMIMARY STATEM   OF LOIAS
(As of Narch 31, 1983)
Amunmt less   Undis-
Loan 1   Year           Borrower                  Pu_pose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-four loas fully disbursed                                    1,950.1
923     1973 Furnas Centrais Eletricas -      Power                 125.0        1.2
Ituabiara
1008     1974 Cia. Hidro Eletrice do           Power                  81.0       12.4
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1067     1974 Brazil                           Education              21.2        1.1
1075     1975  Brazil                          Roads                 110.0        9.4
1151     1975 Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Tndustry                95.0        5.5
1152     1975  Companbia Siderurgica Psulista  Industry               60.0       15.3
1153     1975 Brazil                           Agriclture             23.0        0.3
1171     1975 FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista       Railways               75.0        6.5
1195     1976 Brazil                           Rural Developmnt       12.0        5.4
1207     1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads           55.0       18.9
1249     1976 Brazil                           Agriculture            40.0        0.3
1300     1976 ELETROBRAS                       Pbwer                  50.0        0.2
1302     1976 Brazil                           Nutrition              19.0        0.2
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0       42.5
1343     1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                  82.0       11.8
1362     1977  State of 4in as Gerais          Rural Developnet       42.0        6.2
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer             52.0        1.7
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer             55.0        1.6
Grande S.A. - VALEERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education              32.0       19.8
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Developmunt      17.0       10.8
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sewerage              110.0       62.3
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0       18.3
1538     1978 ELETRDBRA.S                      Pbwer                 130.0       40.5
1557     1978 Brazil                           Roads                 114.0       79.1
1562     1978 COPESUL                          Petrocbheicals         85.0        4.9
1563     1978 Brazil                           Urban Transport        88.0       17.1
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension      100.0       60.6
1589     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      37.0       25.1
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sites and Services     93.0       42.8
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0         58.7
1660     1979 Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum               78.8        0.1
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0       21.5
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Developpuent     70.0       48.3
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                 109.0       57.9
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      40.0       31.5
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0       13.7
1730     1979 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0       77.9



-29-                              AEX n
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STAIEMENI OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1963)
Aimunt less   Undis-
Loan #  Year            Borrower                        se      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1822     1980  Brazil/BNEE                    Pollution-Control       58.0       57.4
1823    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           130.0       82.8
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power                  114.0      105.8
1839    1980 Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0      153.0
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0       84.9
1867    1980 Brazil                           Education              32.0        29.2
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Developnent      63.0       58.6
1895    1980 ELEIROSUL                        Power                  125.0      120.3
1924    1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       45.4
1939    1981  ELErROBRAS                      Power                  54.0       50.0
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport        90.0        82.4
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            180.0     142.4
1989     1981  Brazil                         Alcohol Development   250.0       244.8
2015    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       24.1
2016     1981  Brazil                         Agriculture             60.0       51.8
2060     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            67.0        54.6
2061     1982  Brazil                         Health                  13.0       10.1
2062     1982 Brazil                          Highways              240.0       198.8
2116     1982  Brazil                         Agriculture            26.4        23.9
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                      Power                  182.7      180.0
2163     1982  Brazil                         Agiculture             26.4        23.7
2170     1982 Brazil                          Urban Development      123.9      114.1
2177 /1  1982  Brazil                         Rural Development      42.7       42.7
2193     1982 Brazil                          Urban Development       8.9        8.2
2196     1982  CVMD                           Iron Ore              304.5      280.3
2224 /1  1982 Brazil                          Feeder Roads           154.0     154.0
2225     1982  sEMS                           Developnt BaRking   220.0        216.8
2249 /1  1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           302.3      302.3
Total                                               7,672.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Barnk               1,120.0
Total now outstanding                               6,552.9
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              6,552.9
Total undisbursed                                              3,773.8
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA. credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bark/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.



- 30 -                                              A         It
Pap 3 el 3
I. S     EN (V Zr eIF E UNU t(mo Mueh 31. 19)
Flae                                                                                                                        Int in Ms1 iL.U1m
VW                                       Obligor                                      Typ  au.zIrmo                     lam       Kqnr    TWA
1957                 Siiniu do Urmll Cia. do K1ec1dX  _                            I3etim  equlpun                       2.00       -        2.00
1958                 Uidxt, S. A. Calu m  a PIl                                   Pulp ad Rmpr                            1.20      -        1.20
1938                 D. 1.  . Plmt Im  do Smil. S. A.                              Amot'i bit                             0.45       -        0.45
1956                 VLUp-Oarlad do kaIL. S. A. -   *1 ttia Czoao                   moorW LWdde                           l5        -        2..45
1959               CGdda Plmim de COtno Portland. S. A.                            Clmt                                   1.20       -        1.20
1959                 0p       dali. S. A.                                          Aft                                     4.00      -        4.00
94/V196/972          Cs VlIa.. S. A.                                               Sael                                   8.00       1.93     9.93
19W 9669                  *1 a Clum  GAadi. SL A.                                  Pulp ad Pear                           3.78      3.61      7.5
1967/1972           Mnrdl. S. A. - Jdtda a Curdo de FextfiiUat                      ertllaus                              8.22      3.03    11.25
1969        Por-qdade  Wm, S. A.                                                   buadidca                               5.50      2.88      8.33
170                  Iblloldiu, S. A. Iuistria a C*m                Piodadmle                                             5.50      2J9       8.39
1971n       e         dm. S. A. !ruktr1a atdo                       F_trcddLcas                                           4.60       1.1J     6.04
1911                 RIo  -    - CMaUa do GBkIM do SUL                            Pul                                    4.90       -        4.90
l21975t1911          0dda  de O lmaa Idan  d  im                                     t                                   169.14      6.70   375.84
1973/3974/19n77/1981   Uad    Sldaaaqlm do Ginmm  - MSM3                           Stee                                  76.97     11.22    88D9
1913                 Cwlt.Ia'kt btum         P Bid - }UW Pt C ti I                                mt 1.wIp                5.00       -        5.00
1 378/198/3          1e;ia de Mn'mIvia   do d           Icituada - eO039 S. A.   tdwl iIn   aid Rdsin                    85.0       8.74    95.74
1974 -      V         Inhlt#   W1m. S. A.                                          Llewtm  ad  IAh tAi   5qWrpm           6.00       -        6.00
194                 F dgiin de Tecdo Tabmu . S. A.                                 T13                                   31.00       -      31.00
197511979            Cqnu  Cuncu TMAntrim  td D.                                   Caibm Sl                               6.19      1.9      7.37
1975                   eo      .         S. A.                                     ftrudadc1a                            10..10      -       10.00
1976                 51cts  Iiutda - Tl    da l>_ta. S. A.                         T_IM                                   6.45      1.00    7.45
176/91              Tmor SL A. - TMi CAreinm  do 1.r.                              Tautlim                               16I20       -       1620
977                  Be S. A P.  ctm  atkC                                         Im: ad A-dni m"dtiqp                 20.00       -       20.00
1977                Mmcno DRn dD Nbne S. A.                                        tirL                                  15.00       -       15.00
98                  Cintal Sidourgia S. A.                                         Irm aad Sted                           7.00      3.00    10.00
1979                 Vblu do BdIL          e a bin., S. A.                         Mawr Wdclm                            60.00      5.V     65.27
1913                 Ikdu do MaiDte S. A. - MOM                                    bAIy-     Gum.                         2.00       -        2.00
1_                  Ilm& do zra S/A - %mm - Aplaza, IMauia
e Crd      e &  Oleqln                                      F&bW<ilr                               3.50      1.00     4.50
1913                Vfllar  IzdtcUi  di Urn L. A. - VISA                           ir  az d Stee                          5.00       -       5.ao
198D                    - Ccvrid- U tid a de  prqdlm                               Cmla  and Tradadcals                  15.00      2.00    17.D
19O                 biileda Cxme S. A.                                             Chdcal aid Mbtimadcals                  -        0.25     0.25
191D                 Satam AinsZ CAdid  e 1immi S/A                                FezilAim                              16.00      4.00    M.00
12e0                fblmai ImotinIm                                                Chdcals adA dbt adad3t                43.00      5.eo    4e8m
1981                  m-psr                                                        3wa  wA Cwitt. Kkata                    -        1.50      1.S5
19611               0aq&a BrmDleLcm de A_Xpam2a - RA2                              Foad ad Fad!                           55        3.00     8.50
019                 Tiuilo                                                         ChdraJa wd _.radialca                 46.00      4.00    50.00
192                  CIt   CUE                            _nt en Ceztzuaimi K                                   berla    4.0.O0     5.00    45.
191R                 inde Arc Inaotral SA.                                           1 p Cqdel  t                        30.O      0.45    30.45
1983                Cia Rlogn&ame de  1rt1dipm,e  (Q8P)                            Iuw  Cuta Nadt                         -        0.36     0.36
1913                Atla FHr4p  fifo                                               FOod ad Food Ptasirg                  13.00               13.00
1983       G          Mt1a b-  dD           (MCIA)                                 Pal 01                                 6.10      -        6.10
191B                 FS - bpl e! lqrmua SA.                                        Palp & Paer P_adzts                   47.50      3.50    51O
Ta    =  C1    tm ntg                                                                     83.34      8L75   921.09
1as Cmlacim. TUiitmu. Iv,em8e aid SRIl                                                    59S.45     13.17   6062
Toaal 0-miImenr    2Heb C89                                                                          69.58   31847
Tctal UxUabzed                                                                            190.88     15.24   20 612
ApIl 15. F38



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
THIRD PHASE: NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT
(        Section I   - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  40 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  INCRA
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:      November 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:    February 1980
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:         October 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          September 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:       December 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Disbursement at a rate of 50Z of eligible project expenditure
for the first two POLONOROESTE fiscal years of project imple-
me-itation in accord with the Bank Special Action Program.
Section III - Special Condition
(a) general condition applying to POLONOROESTE would also
apply to this project (para. 46);
(b) the Bank would not disburse against the infrastructure
of any settlement site until complete plans, costing,
and programming of corresponding construction and
operation activities had been agreed with the state of
Rondonia; and all property rights to settlement and
reserve areas had been acquired by INCRA (para. 51);
(c) agricultural extension staff would be made available as
agreed with the Bank (para. 52);
(d) seasonal credit would be provided through government
credit lines and credit infrastructure would be
established in NUARs (para. 53);
(e) measures to improve the operation of IBDF management of
reserves and technical assistance would be taken as
agreed with the Bank (para. 54);
(f) operating costs for social services would be financed
by the state government (para. 55);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) Needed seed would be supplied in a timely fashion
(para. 57);
(h) Project accounts and the Special Account would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(para. 61); and
(i) Cost-recovery procedures would allow the recovery of the
equivalent of about 40X of project infrastructure
investment costs and be put into effect by June 30, 1984
(para. 67).
.



_1s 0             50            100 K(iomo.rs                                                         I's
r                                                                                 f |   l  >{  CVANIA I'OIOifCWAL'
0       20       40       60 M.l*.                                                                      MtSEAArII -,MON'
Thl mzop hb_ Dom pv*d b/
The Wlx iP's staff                                                                  i   \        '
s fl V. haewIed o                                                                                1.
aiandt us of tw IVArld Spnrt
arI 9w b,twamaW. Fmarw         N
C.poratiw ITe donwuar   PORTO 
,Axnd an ft.. bo.aIan d &hw                               0
ai Un nud   do no AN* an NW                                                             E
pwt of ITf.W. =iI amwid ft.
rnw hofwtnl Faws C.cralA 'I
my jy r orl ft h1 stat_I
of an  dorrdory at an V
_sxh0 boundrao                                                         ;
KA,INAS
~~~~~~~~~WARI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.j _ "l P  ^     P      O(RV                                EL       HO           o      ,  7,
-~~~~~~~10-i tOl, , ,,j
L Guo~~ara Miaimn6
CA PiV       cA C O             AS
01    t - G f     /0
'-\l  I                     {,-.\,U\ /\OV05 /I
0 ~   ~    ~     $ PAAA         * I       .f                  P   A                             
't  htOV05  '  A   J A  R A                           x        <~~~~~~R ~(-
R,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A
12 ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     >        _ 66                                 .---.-' -
~~~  L. ~~~~~~~~                / ~~~~CoLs                         H 
ua  Mirie m' MIRiM
-    A'                                              GI O \      BRIOGACAA
RON~~~~~~~~YW;4ECOOCI
5~~~~~~~O0                                             UAAtJARA@!                  M,    -    \
Bros*  I ,o  fCosta                                                                   Go
;~~~~~~~0  g;  c n                                                   M%arques r -;/0 /
.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C I  GA f'FBIOIOCICAL  = 
.f ~~~B  R  A  Z  I L A\^
t   2ROrvwr{s;4  {                                                                     \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pedras
4)                                                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



IBRD 17069
64   o2'                                                          APRIL 1983
f{NI IAIIA 1 Iir;.                                                               BRAZIL --
M.                                               NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT
I!                                       1                                      ,3 X W .. PHASE m
,A                       RONDONIA NEW SETTLEMENT AREA
|VELHO                                                                                              14 '-w Sottlement Areas
-                               (, '                                                    < . J > :  .  .  New Stillemont Areas (in developmeni)
; -ffi -   1 1    \    \   \  /  Project Feeder Roads lin development)
-   \  ,' I                  H J  Rural Service Centers:
Plonned n Existing Settlerents
'Iq. Ma A ChAI)/hA'u ;(). ]   ylf (_                *        Planned in Project Area
- A E -- t   S   t s  j -s il s   ;  X                         Planned Satellite Contors
L  v  , -                                               I- _     h ,a,J   -   >   Existing Settlement Areas
- ;TI] | R   J  11   j  Lq    ,;,  !  - (g)Spontoneoum  Settlement Areas
rI    r  T Natural Reserves and National Forest
a ;\:  Z   d       i       t   >t   \                  [      | Amurindion Reservations
A1-li'mn    [j   R IIQtJ) E             $ A                                -      BR- 364 (section being paved)
f                                                -  /\>  |   l  L1 *   /9- zr   7   _   Other Main Roads  ;0'
H   O    |                                                                                          lsolsys
I I  ~~~ *   _ 4s   w  f\/   I l      <' \                 * - ~~~~~~~~Rivers
0     Main Existing Towns
_   / 2X   *        OURM                          Mtanicipol Boundaries
-  o \ / X  ?             I               _        Slote Boundaries
Ouno Preto  ~ ~   ~     ~    .- International Bautndaries
imea A       de Vlam                        1
0~~~6'6
;   -NJ4 ;>&/w_   *   +        >9i          %                   /       s X    t                 s~~~~~~~i  V'
A~~~~~~~01- pi  ,   f E A
Perc 9<                                                                              Vil05     io  
o Negras         -                                                                     en
\ _^                        ' ~~~~~~~~L H E- N  A  C/
,                                                                          t;el ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cd1 /  MA TO
4 c; _ J ~~~~GRO550
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2,                                                                                         6 O



