Public Disclosure Authorized

                                                                          Document of
                                                                    The WorldBank
                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL UJSEONLY




                                                                                                                        ReportNo.       4424-BR
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                                  STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT



                                                                            BRAZIL
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                         NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                                                           Phase III


                                                                  New Settlements Project
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                                     September 21, 1983




                               Projects Department
                               Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



                                 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
                                 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



Currency Unit                 =     Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                       =     Cr$ 381.0 (end of February 1983)
Cr$ 1.00                     =      US$0.0026
Cr$ 1 million                =      US$2,620




                GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR

                   January 1 to December 31

                NORTHWEST PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR

                     April 1 to March 31



                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES




      The metric system is used throughout the report.
                                                                              FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY

                           GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE TEXT

ASTER-RO               Associacao de Assistenc:iaTecnica e Extensao Rural-Rondonia
                       (Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Association-Rondonia)

BEC                    Batalhao de Engenharia de Construcao
                       (Civil Engineering Battalion)

CNPq                   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico
                       (National Council for Science and Technology)

CODARON                Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
                       (Agricultural Development Company of Rondonia)

DER-RO                 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondonia
                       (Rondonia Highway Department)

FUNAI                  Fundacao Nacional do Indio
                       (National Indian Foundation)

IBDF                   Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
                       (Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)

INCRA                  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
                       (National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)

NUAR                   Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
                       (Rural Service Center)

PCU                    Project Coordinating Unit

PROBOR                 Programa de Incentivos a Producao de Borracha Natural
                       (Program of Incentives for Natural Rubber Production)

SALB                   South American Leaf Blight

SEPLAN-PR              Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
                       (Federal Planning Secretariat)

SEPLAN-RO              Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral do Estado de
                       Rondonia
                       Rondonia State Planning and Coordination Secretariat

SUDECO                 Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
                       (Superintendency for 'Economic Development in the Center-West)

SUDHEVEA               Superintendencia da Borracha
                       (Superintendency for Rubber Development)

UEPAE-RO               Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Rondonia
                       (Rondonia Agricultural Research Unit)




 This document has a restricted distribution and may te used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                         (i)

                                        BRAZI]L

                NORTHWESTREGION DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM- PHASE III

                             NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT

                             STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT

                                Table   of Contents

                                                                    Page   No


       INTRODUCTION...............................                         1

  I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR

       A.   Agriculture in the Economy................................     1
       B.   Government Agricultural Policies..........................     2
       C.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector...............     3

 II.   THE PROJECT AREA

       A.   General...................................................     3
       B.   Climate and Soils.........................................     4
       C.   Agriculture in Rondonia ...................................    4
       D.   Highways in Rondonia......................................     5

III.   THE PROJECT

       A.   The Northwest Program ..................................... 5
       B.   Key Project Institutions.      .                              6
                                                  ................................
       C.   General Description .      .                                  7
                                               .....................................
       D.   Detailed Features.       .                                  10
                                             .......................................
       E.   Activities Parallel to the Project .    .                   18
                                                         ......................

 IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING

       A.   Project Cost.............................................. 18
       B.   Financing..................................................20
       C.   Procurement............................................... 20
       D.   Disbursements............................................. 21

  V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

       A.   Northwest Program Coordination............................ 23
       B.   Project Management and Organization ..................... 23




The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in January/February 1983. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Asseo,
J.P. Delsalle and J.C. Sallier (Bank) and V. Silvestri (FAO/CP) and M.
Dourojeanni (consultant). Mr. S. Hocombe (FAO/CP) and Mr. J. Kernan
(consultant) participated in earlier missions.
                                        (ii)

Table   of Contents (Continued)                                     Page No.


 VI.    PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING and PRICES

        A.   Agricultural Production................................. 25
        B.   Demand, Market and Prices............................... 28
        C.   Marketing Channels...................................... 29

 VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

        A.   Illustrative Farm Models................................ 29
        B.   Producer Income......................................... 30
        C.   Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery ......................... 30

VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION

        A.   Economic Rate of Return .................................   31
        B.   Project Beneficiaries and Employment ...I................   33
        C.   Environmental Impact....................................    33
        D.   Project Risks...........................................    33

IX.      SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES RECEIVED AND RECOMMENDATION               35


ANNEX:

         1. List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File     38

SUPPORTING TABLES:

               1.   Implementation Schedule ........................... 39
               2.   Rural Road Standards ............................. 40
               3.   Cost Phasing of Project Activities................ 41
               4.   Cost of Activities Parallel to the Project........ 42
               5.   Financing Plan .................................... 43
               6.   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements.......... 44
               7.   List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies...... 45
               8.   Summary of Land Use and Income of Illustrative
                      Farm Models..................................... 46
               9.   Incremental Production at Full Development.........47
              10.   Output/Input Price Assumptions.................... 48
              11.   Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis .... 49

CHART:
               1.   Rural Road Construction Implementation ....        50
                                                                  .......
               2.   Coordination and Management Chart................. 51

MAP:

              IBRD 17069: New Settlement Areas
                                  BRAZIL
                  NORTHWEST
                          DEVELOPMENrPRbGRAN  - PHASE III
                         NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT

                                  INTRODUCTION

0.01       The proposed New Settlements project constitutes the third phase of
the Integrated Northwest Region Development Program (POLONOROESTE) underway
with Bank financing.l/ The project seeks an answer both to Rondonia's need
to provide adequate land, facilities and assistance to its immigrants and to
Brazil's  more general need to evolve comprehensive and cost-effective
settlement and environmental protection methods for the development of its
vast, presently unoccupied and fragile Amazon region. Preliminary government
plans for new settlements to be implemented within this project were
presented to the Bank's Northwest Region Survey mission in November 1979. A
settlement project proposal was subsequently prepared by the National
Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Ref-orm (INCRA), with assistance from
the FAO/CP and guidance from the Federal P'lanning Secretariat (SEPLAN-PR) and
the Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-West (SUDECO).
Later phases of preparation saw the involvement of the Brazilian Forestry
Development Institute (IBDF), the Superintendency for Rubber Development
 (SUDHEVEA) and the state government of Rondonia.

                         I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR

                        A.    4griculture in the Economy

1.01      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
gradually declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing 36% of
Brazil's labor force. It contributes today less than 10% of the total GDP
but more than 40% of total export earnings. Based on 1980 data, some 36% of
Brazil's population of 119 million lived in rural areas, compared to 39% in
1970. There are wide variations in population density among regions, from
1.7 inhabitants per km2 in the North to 56.3 in the Southeast. Of the 306
million ha in agricultural properties, 42 million ha (13.8'.)were in either
annual or perennial crops, 166 million ha (54.1%) were used for livestock,
68 million ha (22.1%) were in forestry operations, and the remaining 31
million ha (10%) were productive but unutilized agricultural land. Large
tracts of land, under federal ownership, remain outside this classification.
With large areas of undeveloped land, BraLzilhas traditionally relied on an
expansion of its development frontiers to increase its agricultural
production. The average annual agricultural growth rate in the 1970-1980
decade was just over 5%. Brazil is the world's largest producer of coffee
and sugar cane, the largest exporter of c:offeeand orange juice, and the
second largest producer of soybeans. Other major agricultural exports
include meat and fish products, cotton, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil and
sisal. In most years, Brazil is self-sufficient in basic foods, except for


     The Northwest Development Program is described in para 3.01 of this
     report. Further details on the area, objectives, strategy, costs and
     expected benefits of the program can be found in the Bank Staff
     Appraisal Report 3512b-BR: "Brazil -- Northwest Region Development
     Program, First Phase - Agricultural Development and Environmental
     Protection Project" - October 30, 1981; and Bank Report 3042a-BR: "The
     Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier;` December 23,
     1980.
wheat. Bad crop years result in periodic imports of food crops such as
maize, rice and beans. Natural rubber is also imported. In the recent past,
most of the productivity gains, expansion of production area and increased
market integration have occurred in the south and center-west of the country,
while the north and northeast have largely continued to follcowtraditional
agricultural practices.

                      B. GovernmentAgriculturalPolicies

1.02      Agricultural development is given a key role in the government's
efforts to reduce inflation, through expanded food production, and to improve
the balance-of-payments, through increased production of export crops and
energy substitutes. To help achieve these objectives, the government has
continued its support for special regional programs, despite high inflation
and public sector deficits which have caused restraint in public expenditure
and made it difficult for federal institutions to recruit additional staff
essential to Bank-assisted prolects. The government is gradually reducing
the high agricultural credit subsidies, an instrument used extensively in the
past, but this is done more slowly in the special program areas.

1.03      For the past several years, a minimum price program has set
guaranteed floor prices for 42 commodities commonly grown in Brazil to help
farmers make planting decisions and provide for the establishment of
government stocks. Farmer decisions have proven sensitive to minimum prices,
leading occasionally to insufficient or excessive production of some of the
basic food crops. The Bank and government are cooperating in a review of
agricultural sector policies, including the existing price support system.
The recent evolution of the cruzeiro should encourage farmers to step up
production of export and import-substitution crops.

1.04      A tax on imported rubber has been used to support the price of
natural rubber produced in Brazil (which was set at a level about three times
world prices in 1982). SUDHEVEA justifies the high protection with the
argument that the rubber rehabilitation effort in Brazil is recent, that
measures are being taken in parallel to gradually improve the competitiveness
of the rubber industry, and that rubber could play an important role in the
development of frontier areas of moderate to marginal soil fertility and
fragile ecology. While some degree of protection appears justified, the
present level of protection is expected to decline during the next decade as
domestic production increases.

1.05      Brazilian coffee policies are guided by the international
agreements signed under the aegis of the International Coffee Organization.
During the last two years no official investment credit has been made
available to coffee growers, and there have been more decreases in areas
planted in coffee in frost-prone southern states than increases in other
states. Other coffee policy tools include minimum price guarantees, tree
eradication programs and export taxes. Brazil has a medium term objective of
stabilizing average coffee production around 28 to 30 million bags per year,
implying a peak production potential of 34 to 36 million bags in high-yield
and frost-free years.
                                                    - 3-



                     C. Bank Involvementin the AgriculturalSector

1.06       The Bank has so far made 28 loans, totalling US$1,728.9million,
for agricultureand rural developmentin Brazil. These include one sector
loan for US$303.0 million; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for
agro-industries;  two, totallingUSS60.5 million, for livestock development;
one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two amounting to US$100 million
for agriculturalresearch;one for US$100 million to improve agricultural
extension services; arid18, totalling US$628 million, for various settlement,
irrigationand rural developmentprojects, 13 of which are located in the
Northeast2 / and three in the North and Northwest. In addition, there have
been three loans, totallingUS$196 million for fertilizerproduction;a loan
of US$19 million for a nutrition research and developmentproject; three
loans, totallingUS$320 million for secondary and feeder roads; and a loan of
US$32 million for a Northeast basic education project. The Completionand
Project PerformanceAudit Reports issued for the grain storage and livestock
developmentprojects reveal significantdifferenceswhich developed between
the governmentand the Bank regarding intLerest  rate policy, leading to some
cancellationand/or early repayment of the loans. Completionand Project
PerformanceAudit Reports have also been issued for the first agro-industry
project and the Alto Turi Land Settlemenit project. Implementation of the
agro-industryproject was hampered by fresquently  shifting government
policies, which included the developmentof subsidizedcompeting credit
programs. The Alto Turi settlementproject raised settler incomes beyond
expectationsbut was less successfulin the areas of environmental
protection,community organization,and strengthening    of cooperatives.

                                     UI. THE PROJECT AREA

                                              A. General

2.01          The New Settlements         project    area   would    cover     about      1.1 million       ha
in the state of Rondonia, consistingmostly of publicly owned and undeveloped
lands, mainly virgin forest, where, besides some wild rubber tapping,limited
mineral prospectingand a few dispersed extractiveforestry operations,no
systematiceconomic activity is yet taking place (Map 17069 and Table 1).
The present     population   of     the   project    area   is   practically       nil.      In   several
locations,land which has not yet been developed but is under private
ownershipwould have to be recovered by INCRA through existing legislation. A
presidentialdecree authorizingexpropriations  in the areas to be developed
during    the first     two years has already      been signed.     There are no roads into
the proposed      settlement     sites,  which considerably     reduces   the potential     for
undesired    squatting       but also limits   access  for survey    or planning    purposes.
For these reasons,most of the detailed surveying and planningof the project
area would be implementedin parallel to the opening of main access roads
within the settlementsites and would be rapidly followed by plot allocation
to selected settlers. Three of the six sites proposed to be settled (Urupa I



2/     A preliminaryevaluationof impact is provided in Report No. 3938-BR
       "Rural DevelopmentPrograms for BraLzil'sNortheast:An Interim
       Assessment,"issued in Green Cover on June 29, 1982.
                                      - 4 -



and Machadinho I and II, totalling some 600,000 ha) have already been studied
in considerable detail (para 3412), and some works are already being
implemented in Urupa I and Machadinho I. A forestry company has claimed
ownership of a second segment of the Urupa site, which had already been
studied. Unless the issue is rapidly resolved, INCRA would settle an
alternative site, Cujubim, located north of Ariquemes. Two more sites,
Capitao Silvio and Marmelo, both along the unpaved segment of BR-364, west of
Porto Velho, have been preliminarily identified as possibly having suitable
soils and are now being studied in greater detail. Identified settlement
sites are either adjacent to earlier settlements or along the BR-364
highway. If detailed surveys were to show that substantial segments of the
proposed sites are not suitable for settlement, and all plann,ed15,000
families could not be settled within the selected areas, discarded segments
could be replaced by new areas, such as Cujubim, which remain, however, to be
studied in greater detail. No Amerindians are known to dwell within the
proposed settlement sites. Moreover, prior to project implementation, formal
consent to the settlement of the sites will, by law, have to be obtained from
the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI). There are, however, Amerindian
reserves in the vicinity of the proposed Machadinho II and Capitao Silvio
sites, and measures to avoid the expansion of settlement areas through
spontaneous squatting beyond official limits will be required from FUNAI and
state government authorities, within the context of the overa:LlNorthwest
Program.

                              B.   Climate and Soils

2.02      The climate in the project area is hot and humid. Temperatures
average 250 C, and annual rainfall ranges from 2,000 mm in Marmelo to 2,600
mm in Machadinho II, with a dry season of three to four months (less than 50
mm rainfall per month) between June and September, coinciding with the cooler
nights of the year. The dry season, with lower relative humidity and
temperature, helps control fungus diseases but also limits the yields of
rubber.

2.03      The project is located in the Amazon plain, where topography is
gently undulating at altitudes between 1.00m and 300 m. The t:errainis often
dissected by streams and rivers. The vegetation is generally dense tropical
forest. Soil quality is quite variable, even over short distances, and
generally lower than in earlier settlement areas. About 5% of the project
area is in Class 1 eutrophic red soils and podsols, capable of sustained
annual or perennial cropping, with low f'ertilizationafter several crops.
These are found mainly in Urupa I and II and, to a lesser extent, Machadinho
I. Class 2 (eutrophic and distrophic red-yellow podsols) and 3 soils
(distinctly more acid distrophic and allic latosols) have more variable
management requirements and cover another 70% of the area. Remaining soils
are unsuitable for agriculture. The cropped area is expected to be
concentrated on Class 1 and 2 soils, with some extension into more acceptable
segments of Class 3 soils. Existing aerial photography and topographical
maps allow a preliminary selection of areas and road layout for settlement
purposes. The project would provide for more detailed surveys.

                         C.   Agriculture in Rondonia

2.04      Agriculture in already settled areas of the region is characterized
by a low level of productivity of land and labor and an inadequate marketing
                                       -5-



network. As in much of Brazil, production increases have been due, almost
exclusively, to the extension of the area planted and a corresponding
increase of labor input. There is less shifting cultivation in Rondonia than
elsewhere in the Amazon and, next to subsistence crops (mainly rice, corn,
beans and cassava), there has been a marlced increase in perennial crops such
as coffee (some 90,000 ha, half arabica and half robusta, at the end of
1982) 3cocoa (some 39,000 ha) and, more recently, rubber (17,000 ha planted
and some 10,000 ha more planned), and in semi-intensive livestock
production. Purchased inputs are rarely used, but their use is now being
promoted through the ongoing Bank-financed agricultural projects in the
Northwest region (para 3.01).

                           D. Highways in Rondonia

2.05      The road network of Rondonia was about 8,700 km at the beginning of
1982, with only 150 km paved. Another 600 km are being rebuilt and paved and
a further 4,400 km constructed or rehabilitated under the first phase of the
Northwest program. A substantial part of the network is under municipal
reponsibility. The recently established Highway Department of Rondonia
(DER-RO) is the subject of a considerable effort to strengthen its
construction and maintenance capability, including assistance to the
municipalities.

                               III.   THE PROJECT

                          A.    The Northwest Program

3.01       The Northwest Region Integrated Development Program, under which
the proposed project would be financed, originated with the government's
intention of paving the 1,500 km road (BR-364) which links Cuiaba, the
capital of Mato Grosso, to Porto Velho, the capital of Rondonia. The program
strategy, elaborated following the November 1979 Bank reconnaissance mission,
aims at providing for the investments niecessary to achieve the further
settlement and harmonious socio-economic development of the region influenced
by BR-364 (defined as the Northwest region) which has been subject to intense
immigration (see para 3.02) and the protection of the physical environment
and Amerindian population of that region, concomitantly with the paving of
BR-364. The Northwest region comprises the whole state of Rondonia and 14
north-western municipalities of Mato Grosso. It broadly consists of (a)
areas with good agricultural potential, which were already mostly settled but
in urgent need of complementary infrastructure and services to become
economically and socially viable; (b) undeveloped areas with somewhat lower
but acceptable agricultural potential, to which continuing immigration could
be channelled by the development of adequate infrastructure and services; (c)
areas, often of restricted productive potential, which should be maintained
in reserves, both to preserve the present ecological variety of the region
and to protect more fragile areas from irreversible environmental damage; and
 (d) areas inhabited by Amerindian tribal groups. The Northwest Program was
conceived in three overlapping phases reflecting the social, economic and
environmental priorities of the region but also the varyig degree of
preparedness of the various program comiponents. The first and most extensive
phase included (a) the paving of BR-364 (Loan 2062-BR); (h) the establishment
of a rural health network in Rondonia, including strengthened malaria control
                                     - 6 -



(Loan 2061-BR); and (c) the consolidation of existing settlements in central
Rondonia and the implementation of various environmental protection measures
(Loan 2060-BR). The second phase (Loan 2116-BR) extended similar rural
development activities to selected areas of Mato Grosso with larger
concentrations of small farmers. The third, proposed, phase aims at
gradually developing new settlement schemes in adequate but yet unoccupied
areas of the region with improved settlement planning, construction and
administration methods which could be usefully replicated in future
settlement operations both in the North and Northwest regions of Brazil. In
parallel to these three phases, the government of Brazil has been
implementing a Special Project to assist and protect Amerindian communities
dwelling in the Northwest. The presidential decree signed on May 27, 1981,
defining the objectives and resources of the Northwest Program, allocates the
equivalent of US$1.1 billion of base costs in January 1981 terms for the
program, of which US$262 million would be for the establishment of new
settlements in the region, including both the 15,000 families proposed to be
settled under this project and a further 5,000 families that could be settled
later.

                         B.   Key Project Institutions

The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA)

3.02      INCRA would be the main executing agency of the project,
responsible for project planning and the implementation of most
infrastructure works. As those works are completed, their ownership and
operating and maintenance responsibility would be transferred to the state of
Rondonia. INCRA is an autonomous organ administered by the Ministry of
Agriculture since its establishment in 1970 but answering to the Ministry of
Land since the creation of the latter in 1982. The main objectives of INCRA
are to (a) promote and implement agrarian reform; (b) promote, coordinate and
implement settlement activities; and (c) promote farmer cooperatives and
associations and rural electrification. INCRA is responsible for all rural
cadastral operations; expropriation of land for agrarian reform purposes;
developing and providing services to new settlement areas; participating in
land zoning to identify priority development areas; defining minimum farm
sizes; and determining land values for tax purposes. INCRA operates through
its four departments of (a) Cadaster and Taxation; (b) Land Resources
(expropriations); (c) Projects and Operations (settlement); and (d) Rural
Development (cooperativism). INCRA has a total staff of more than 9,000, of
which some 1,700 are professionals. Some 700 staff are stationed in Rondonia
(with about 100 professionals). Its 1983 budget has been established at
approximately US$100 million. INCRA has traditionally been one of the
largest road building institutions in Brazil. Through the preparation of
this project, it has considerably improved its settlement planning
methodology for Amazonian areas (see paras 3.06, 3.07 and 5.03).

The Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development (IBDF)

3.03      IBDF would be responsible for forestry planning and technical
assistance. IBDF is an autonomous organ of the Ministry of Agriculture,
established in 1967 and responsible for (a) the formulation of forest policy;
(b) forestry development; and (c) directing the rational use and conservation
of renewable natural resources. Its functions are based on the comprehensive
                                   -   7   -




Forest Code of 1965 and Fauna Protection Law of 1967. There is an IBDF
delegation in Rondonia. The Forest Economics and Commercial Departments
would coordinate IBDF's work in the project. An agreement has been signed
between INCRA and IBDF, defining each institution's specific role in forestry
operations in settlement areas. In 19M2, IBDF's budget totalled about US$100
million, with a staff of some 3,500, including some 600 professionals (of
which some 200 foresters and 100 agronomists). In the specific fields of
forest management and forestry extension techniques, IBDF has yet limited
experience. However, IBDF's involvement in the project is limited, and the
project provides for consultant services to strengthen its project related
operations.

The Superintendency for Rubber Development (SUDHEVEA)

3.04      SUDHEVEA would assist farmers in rubber development activities.
SUDHEVEA was created in 1967 and is affiliated with the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. It has a staff of about 550 with about 165 professionals. An
advisory council, the National Rubber Council, develops government policy and
guidelines to be implemented by SUDHEVEA, which oversees all aspects of the
promotion of rubber production and controls imports and marketing of both
synthetic and natural rubber. A tax oII imported rubber finances SUDHEVEA's
operations, including the production of budded plants, assistance and
training for primary processing of latex and assistance to research and
extension services. Technical assistance has largely been implemented
through contractual arrangements between SUDHEVEA and the Brazilian Company
for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER), but SUDHEVEA is
presently considering measures to develop its capacity to assist rubber
farmers directly, including consulting services financed by the project to
advise and train SUDHEVEA staff.

The Agricultural Development Company of Rondonia (CODARON)

3.05      Responsibility for the construction and operation of nurseries,
input supply posts and pilot sawmills iinthe project area would be entrusted
to CODARON, a public corporation of the state of Rondonia, created by Law
No. 6805 of July 7, 1980, which became operational on January 27, 1981. Its
creation was closely linked to the establishment of the Northwest Program.
CODARON has taken over many of the staff and activities of the Secretariat of
Agriculture of Rondonia. Its performance in the first year of implementation
of the Northwest Program in Rondonia has proven satisfactory.

                           C. General Description

Origin and Rationale

3.06      The Northwest region has been subject to considerable immigration
pressure since the construction, in the late 1960s, of the unpaved BR-364.
This pressure is particularly strong in Rondonia. Immigration into the
Northwest region started some 40 years ago but was initially limited to
relatively accessible areas in the state of Mato Grosso, where private
colonization companies established a minimum of infrastructure and services
before selling plots to relatively well-to-do farmers migrating from the
south. Since 1970, INCRA has establislhed a large number of settlement areas
in Rondonia, mostly along the yet unpaved BR-364. These settlements were
generally established without preliminary soil surveys and along a standard
                                    -   8-


orthogonal layout, without consideration of topographical or ecological
factors. Roads were poorly built and soon became impassable during the rainy
season. The few available services were concentrated along BR-364
exclusively, although secondary roads were built up to 40 km away from the
highway and subsequently extended as far as 80 km into the forest as a result
of spontaneous settlement. No mechanisms were planned for the gradual
transfer of administrative responsibilities from INCRA to the local
authorities. Lots of 100 ha each, including individual legal reserves of 50
ha, were given at highly subsidized prices.

3.07      The long preparation phase of the proposed project has already
allowed INCRA, with assistance from the FAO/CP and Bank missions, to
gradually define and start to apply improved settlement methods, including
the selection of ecologically favorable areas; road and plot layouts suited
to the local topography; road standards allowing effective maintenance;
decentralized semi-urban centers providing settlers with financial,
commercial, education and health services; agglomeration of individual legal
reserves into large, collective, blocks on segments of the settlement areas
less suitable for agricultural practices, with a parallel strenghtening of
the planning and extension capability of IBDF; coordination with state
authorities for an efficient transfer of administrative responsibilities; and
cost recovery procedures reducing the project's impact on the government
budget. Furthermore, the introduction of rubber plots in some 40% of the
farms to be established, with extensive financial and technical assistance to
the farmers, would orient settlers to new perennial cropping opportunities
adapted to local soils, emphasizing a crop of strategic importance for a
rapidly industrializing country.

3.08      The survey and design schedule of the proposed settlement sites
allows the immediate development of the Urupa and Machadinho I sites.
Sufficient preliminary information is also available to schedule the
settlement of Machadinho II as of year 2 of the project. Further settlement
areas (discussed in para 2.01) are intended to be developed only after being
proven to meet the same detailed criteria used for already studied areas.
Alternative areas would otherwise be selected and are known to be generally
available in Rondonia. Project implementation is spread over a six-year
period (beyond works already implemented in the 1982/83 Northwest Program
fiscal year) to allow for the complex planning, bidding and imnplementation
requirements, the heavy rains which limit construction works to eight months
per year and the prevailing recruitment constraints which limit the
implementation capability of the lead agencies.

Objectives and Target Group

3.09        Project objectives are to (a) help INCRA settle by 1989 up to
15,000 immigrant farmer families with improved physical planning and settler
selection norms in six areas of Rondonia which have adequate agricultural
potential; (b) provide the settlers with a level and variety of
infrastructure and services comparable to those being present:Lydeveloped
under the first phase of the Northwest Program, such as roads, warehouses,
health and education facilities and agricultural extension and social
        3
services  !; (c) develop salvage logging procedures in areas cleared for


3/   See SAR 3512-BR: "Brazil - Northwest Region Development Program, First
     Phase - Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project."
                                   - 9 -




agriculture and, in the longer term, collective sustained forestry
operations; (d) generate farmer involvement in less traditional tree crops
which are suitable to the local soils; and (e) improve government capacity to
plan and execute similar  settlement programs in other parts of the Amazon
region. The 15,000 farm families would each receive from 25 ha (in areas of
better soils) to 40 ha (in areas of more patchy soils) of agricultural land,
plus an equal surface of forest area within agglomerated blocks. These
settlers would be engaged in the production of subsistence and commercial
food crops such as rice, maize, beans and cassava but would also grow cash
crops such as rubber, fruits and, to a lesser extent and with private
financing, coffee. Through administrative and operational arrangements that
remain to be defined, they would also be involved, in the longer term, in
 forestry operations on their legal reserves (see para 3.19). INCRA had
originally explored the possibility of settling some 60,000 families in the
Northwest region within a four-year period. This target was gradually
modified, in view of the complexity of settlement in the tropical jungle and
of financial and institutional limitations, down to 20,000 families to be
 settled within seven years (starting in 1982), 15,000 of which would be
attended through the proposed project. If migration into Rondonia were to
 continue more or less at the past rate of 1,000 families per month, half of
which declare an interest in agricultural employment, the project would
 attend a little less than half of the potential settlers arriving in the
 region during the project implementation period. The others would find work
 opportunities as sharecroppers or laborers in already established farms.

Project Description

3.10      The project would include (a) land use planning and new settlement
design; (b) an extensive rural road network and the expansion of road
maintenance capability; (c) an urban infrastructure consisting of seven rural
service centers (NUAR) and 71 satellite centers; (d) agricultural research,
rural extension and input supply; (e) grain drying and storage facilities;
(f) pilot salvage logging and sawmilling facilities; defining the
administration and organization of forestry activities within the
agglomerated legal reserves; and strengthening of Rondonia's capability to
protect its natural parks and reserves; (g) education and health facilities
in the project area; (h) project management and coordination, including
monitoring; and (i) funds for special studies to help diversify agricultural
options in the region and for the preparation of new projects in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso.

3.11      On-farm credit would be financed through existing channels, and
investment credit for rubber and other selected perennial crops would be
eligible for Bank financing. Ongoing Northwest projects would provide for a
series of parallel activities crucial to the achievement of the objectives of
the NW III New Settlements project, such as paving of the BR-364 highway,
strengthening road maintenance capability, increased deforestation control,
monitoring the environmental impact of development, overall program
coordination, construction of a hospital in Ouro Preto, malaria control in
Rondonia and the protection of the Amerindian population in the region.
                                   -   10   -




                          D.   Detailed Features

Land Use Planning, SettlementLayout, Demarcation and Titling

3.12      Settlementplanning and highway constructionare faced with very
adverse environmentalconditionsin the Amazon basin due to the dense forest
and swampy areas, heavy rainfall four to five months per year, tropical
diseases, lack of reliablemaps and poor lines of communication. Traditional
road design is almost impossible. Settlementplanning financed by the
project would consist of the following sequenceof operations to be carried
out by INCRA: (a) a preliminaryzoning of the proposed settlementsites into
potential agriculturaland reserve areas, to be done on about 0.9 million ha
by the interpretation of existing aerial photographyat a scale of 1:70,000,
mapped at 1:50,000; (b) based on the above interpretation, a preliminary
layout of the feeder, access and penetrationroads, followingnatural crest
lines wherever possible, and of plots, drawn on the same maps; (c) once
simple paths are opened along those penetrationlines, a field evaluationof
the land use capabilityto confirm and, where necessary,correct the actual
boundariesof areas with agriculturalpotential and of forest reserve areas
deduced from the preliminaryzoning; (d) detailed design of settlementof an
estimated 15,000 individualpropertiesof 25 or 40 ha each and of
correspondingagglomeratedlegal reserves; and (e) cadastral surveys and
demarcationof the individualplots and outer boundariesof the legal
reserves. Field work would also include surveys by SUDHEVEA to identify
areas best suited for rubber cultivation. Land use capabilitysurveys for
another 190,000 ha in Urupa I and II and Machadinho I were financedand
implementedunder Loan 2060-BR. Further land use planning and layouts have
since been completedfor these areas. Demarcationof about 1,000 lots in
Urupa I was also completed in 1982. Acceleratedand less detailed physical
planning was used for the Urupa I and II areas, which, because of their
location, are subject to a higher risk of-invasion by squatters but which
have, generally, the advantage of soils richer than those in the other
project areas. A preliminaryroad and plot layout was also made, through
photo-interpretation, for a fourth site (MachadinhoII) covering another 36%
of the project area. Photo-interpretation  for the Marmelo and Capitao Silvio
sites, includinga first alignment of project roads, has been completed.
Settler selectionwould be implementedwithin the guidelinesof the Land
Statute (Law No. 4504) and INCRA's own selection norms, which favor
physicallyable candidateswith large families,who have experiencein
agriculturebut are not landownersand have not participatedin any previous
INCRA settlementproject. Prioritywould be given to migrant families
already in the region. SUDHEVEA would also participatein the selectionof
settlerswho would be more particularlyoriented toward areas approved for
rubber cultivation. Conditionsof disbursementfor each settlementsite
would be that (a) detailed settlementlayouts and costing of roads and NUAR
infrastructure had been satisfactorily completed by INCRA; (b) INCRA had
entered into agreementswith the governmentof Rondonia, defining programming
of constructionand operation activities for this site; and (c) INCRA had
acquired all property rights to the areas considered for settlementand
correspondingreserve areas.

Rural Roads

3.13     This componentwould include the design and construction   of (a)
some 1,550 km of primary farm access roads; (b) some 1,450 km of secondary
                                    -   11   -




farm access roads; and (c) in order to strengthen the maintenance capacity of
the state and municipalities, contracted mechanized maintenance during the
six-year project implementation period. Construction in all project sites of
a total of 750 km of feeder roads linking the NUARs to the main highway, as
well as 200 km of farm access roads in Urupa I, would be entrusted by INCRA
to local Civil Lngineering Battalions (BEC). The BEC have proved to be well
adapted, under adverse conditions, to carry out road openings and
construction of good quality within reasonable cost and time limits. The
feeder roads would be built to Class D standards of the National Roads
Department (DNER). The Bank would not finance works implemented by the BEC.
The primary and secondary access roads, linking individual farms to the NUARs
or to the feeder roads, would be built to lower (E and F) standards at unit
base costs, quoted by private contractors, of about US$12,200 per km and
US$5,300 per km, respectively, based on recent tenders received by INCRA for
the implementation of the Machadinho I component of the project (Table 2).
The DNER standards have been satisfactorily applied in numerous rural
development projects in Brazil. The maintenance system established under
earlier phases of the Northwest Program would be extended to the areas
covered by this project. Chart 1 provides a schedule of road design and
implementation. Since the implementation of the other components of the
project depends heavily on the implementation of the road component, a PERT
system would be set up by INCRA to assist in the annual programming and
monitoring of the project. Corresponding charts of activities would be
updated annually, before September 30 of the preceding year. Final road
designs are expected to be executed by private contractors and, to a lesser
extent, under force account by INCRA. Considering the latter's staff
limitations, INCRA's capacity to implement such designs in a timely and
adequate fashion would be reviewed after completion of the final design of
the first 500 km of roads. Annual maintenance plans would be reviewed with
the Bank. Assurances were received from the federal government that (a)
roads would be constructed according to design standards (Table 2) and
layouts agreed to with the state government and with the Bank; (b) INCRA
would enter into agreements with the BEC, satisfactory to the Bank, (i)
defining the BEC's construction and maintenance responsibilities for the
feeder roads; and (ii) providing the BEC with all the means and resources to
carry out in a timely manner the construction and maintenance operations
entrusted to them, without impediment to their other maintenance obligations
 in the region; (c) the portion of BR-364 between Porto Velho and Marmelo,
which provides the only access to two settlement sites, would be maintained
 permanently trafficable; and (d) the Bank would be furnished the necessary
documents and authorized to visit the facilities and sites of works entrusted
 to the BEC for construction and maintenance in order to review the progress
 of such works. Assurances were received from the government of Rondonia that
 prior to the initiation of construction of any project-financed farm access
 road, the state would enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
 each of its project area municipalities, defining maintenance
 responsibilities of the municipalities and DER-RO.

NUAR and Satellite Infrastructure

3.14      One NUAR would be established for every 1,700 to 2,500 new
settlers. A total of seven NUARs would thus serve as foci for commercial and
social activities for some 15,000 settlers. Each NUAR would include
administration and service areas, some 200 lots for private houses and
recreational and commercial areas. The project would not finance NUAR
infrastructure already entrusted to the BEC for Urupa I. Each NUAR site
                                   -   12   -




would be cleared and providedwith office facilities(for INCRA, SUDHEVEA,
IBDF and state agencies involved in rural development),a guest house, 12
staff houses, a public water supply system and an electricitysupply
network. Four of them would be providedwith a simple landing strip and a
training center. Each NUAR would also have a secondary school (para 3.21), a
health post or referral center (para 3.22) and a crop drying and storage unit
(para 3.17). Private trade and services, especiallyfor the provision of
various farm inputs and tools, are expected to develop rapidly in these
centers, as in previoussettlementareas. To complementthe social
infrastructure network of the NUARs, the project would finance basic
infrastructure for 71 satellite centers (one for every 210 settlers),each
providedwith some 25 lots for private houses, a deep well, a one-classroom
school and a health post. INCRA would be responsiblefor the constructionof
NUAR, satelliteand surroundinginfrastructure.

AdaptiveAgriculturalResearch

3.15      Researchbeing carried out under the two Bank-assisted  Agricultural
Research Projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR) and the Northwest Program
(Loan 2060-BR)would be complementedunder this project with research into
annual and perennial crop productiontechniquestailored to local soil
conditions. The project would finance the Rondonia researchunit (UEPAE-RO)
of the BrazilianAgriculturalResearch Company (EMBRAPA) to (a) establish and
operate during the project implementation period one experimentalsubstation
in Machadinho I on soils representative of the areas to be settled; (b)
establish and provide improved supplies for 150 farmer-operated, fruit tree
and annual crop demonstrationplots; and (c) strengthen the soil and leaf
analysis capacityof the Porto Velho station. Researchwould include
investigationinto areas such as locally appropriatecrop rotations;
diversification of farming systems; and farm management. Experiments
executed at the Machadinho substationwould then be tested with extension
staff participation on the 150 demonstrationplots. UEPAE-RO would
publicize each year researchresults obtained under the project.
Assuranceswere received from the federal governmentthat the Machadinho
research substationwould be establishedand adequately staffed no later than
December 31, 1984.

TechnicalAssistance to Farmers

3.16      The Technical Assistanceand Rural Extension Associationof
Rondonia (ASTER-RO)would assist project settlers in graduallyimproving
their agriculturalproductiontechniques,with particularemphasis on soil
conservationand the promotion of new perennial crops. Besides its role in
the selection of rubber plots and farmers, SUDHEVEAwould provide trainingof
rubber farmers and tappers;assistance in the control of rubber tree
diseases, extensionrelated to the cultivationand intercroppingor rubber
during the immature period; and assistancein on-farm and centralizedrubber
processing. The project would finance (a) the constructionand equipment of
seven extension offices,correspondingvehicles and housing facilitiesfor
extensionstaff and operating costs during project implementation; (b) basic
equipment for rubber nurseries;(c) training courses for some 750 farmer
leaders and 110 general and 8D rubber extensionists,including four subject
matter specialistsand an administrativesupport staff of 25; (d) the
establishmentand operation of about seven SUDHEVEA-operated rubber
demonstration(and, later, tapper training)plots of 5 ha each; and (e) 30
                                   - 13 -



man-months of consultantservices to assist SUDHEVEA in implementingits
rubber developmentprogram in the project area. Extension would be provided
through (a) individualcontacts, to assist settlers in selectingareas for
perennial and annual crops, farm planning, credit requestsand cultivation
techniques;and (b) group extension,in specific activitiessuch as the
promotion of improvedvarieties,disease control, crop rotation,
fertilizationand soil conservation. General orientation,such as market
information,would also be provided through farmer organizdtionsand mass
media techniques. Settlers growing rubber would receive direct assistance
from ASTER-RO field staff, put under SUDHEVEA managementuntil the trees
reach tapping age. They would then be attended in groups oy ASTER-RO for all
farm activities. Initially,each agent would reach directly about 70
beneficiaries. This ratio would gradually increase to about 100 for
SUDHEVEA-managed extension and 130 for ASTER-RO within four years. SUDHEVEA
and ASTER-RO would maintain records of the cropping patterrs,use of main
inputs and production,with a view to ensuring continuity In assistanceand
monitoring project impact. The federal and state governmentshave agreed
that (a) SUDHEVEAand ASTER-RO would enter before March 31, 1984, into
arrangements satisfactoryto the Bank defining their respectivefunctions in
rubber extensionactivities; (b) project-financed  agriculturaland social
extension staff of SUDHEVEA, ASTER-RO and the Secretariat of Labor and Social
Promotion of Rondonia would be made available and trained according to a
schedule agreed upon at negotiations;and (c) SUDHEVEAwould recruit its
consultantsby June 30, 1984.

Crop Drying and Storage

3.17      In order to reduce post-harvestlosses and provide marketing
flexibility,the project would finance the constructionand equipment of
seven 2,000 ton warehouses designed for the specific climaticand
agriculturalproductionconditionsof the project area, each equippedwith a
5-ton/hourgrain dryer. Th iotal storage capacity of 14,000 tons'would
cover about 30% of the expectedmarketed output by year 6 of the project. A
modular warehouse structurewould allow later expansion. The warehousesare
expected to be designed to meet local climatic conditionsand built by
INCRA. Conditionsof disbursementagainst the warehouse componentwould be
that (a) final designs for a standardwarehouse had been prepared and
approved by the Bank; and (b) warehouse operation arrangements,satisfactory
to the Bank, had been defined.

Input Supply

3.18      Apart from a few rubber nurseries financedby SUDHEVEA and
currentlyoperated by CODARON, the productionof improvedperennial crop
planting material in Rondonia is very limited. Other inputs are expected,
in the long term, to be providedmostly by private suppliers settling in the
NUARs. The project would finance the construction,equipment and working
capital of three nurseries to produce seedlings of fruit trees such as
guarana, Brazil nut, citrus, cashew nut, jaboticaba, pupunha,avocado,mango
and coconut and of seven small input supply posts to be built and operated on
a commercialbasis by CODARON.
                                    - 14 -



Forestry Development

3.19       The project would finance: (a) rapid forest inventories by IBDF of
some 570,000 ha of agricultural plots and the establishment of salvage
logging procedures to improve returns to farmers through some diversification
of the species and a modest increase of the quantities of wood that can be
salvaged from some 350,000 ha expected to be cleared over the next 15 years;
 (b) detailed inventories by IBDF of some 500,000 ha of legal reserves and
management plans for the permanent exploitation of some 20 agglomerated
reserves within those areas; (c) the construction of and vehicles and
equipment of seven forestry extension offices to be managed initially by IBDF
and later transferred to the State Forestry Institute which is planned to be
established in Rondonia; (d) training, salaries and other operating costs for
a core of 26 forestry extensionists and central staff during ltheproject
implementation period; (e) the construclion and working capital of two pilot
sawmills, each with a daily capacity of 30 m3 of sawn wood, to be built and
operated on a commercial basis by CODARON, to generate interest in the
processing of species for local market uses; (f) the construction, equipment
and operating costs of three IBDF forest:rycontrol posts; (g) the establish-
ment of control bases in Costa Marques and Ariquemes, to be owned by IBDF and
operated by the Forestry Battalion of Rondonia, for the protection of natural
parks and reserves, water sources and endangered species, including provision
of two helicopters, four boats, four vehicles and twenty helic:opter landing
pads in the areas to be controlled; (h) short market studies for wood species
with favorable features, which are found but are not traditionally processed
in the region; and (i) 24 man-months of consultant services tcoassist IBDF in
defining salvage logging procedures maximizing farmer revenue from forest
clearing and avoiding excessive damage to project roads; preparing and
implementing management plans for forest reserves; and strengthening IBDF's
environmental control capacity. Ownership of the agglomerated forest
reserves would remain with the farmers, either individually or, more
probably, through shares in a collective}ownership system.

3.20      Assurances were received from the federal and Rondonia governments
that IBDF would (a) jointly with INCRA, establish administrative rules and
regulations pertaining to the exploitation of the agglomerated reserves prior
to June 31, 1984; (b) complete (i) within six months after the construction
of each NUAR, forest inventories for the agricultural and reserve areas
attended by that NUAR; and (ii) the corresponding management plans within a
year after completion of the inventory of a given reserve; (c) make extension
staff available and train them within a schedule to be agreed upon at
negotiations; (d) sign an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the govern-
ment of Rondonia prior to September 30, 1984, defining their respective roles
in forestry extension; (e) recruit, in accordance with Bank guidelines, prior
to June 30, 1984, consultants with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to
assist in strengthening its extension and forest control services and develop
efficient salvage logging procedures; (f) review with the Bank the terms of
reference of the proposed market studies prior to implementing them; and (g)
sign an agreement with the Forestry Battalion of Rondonia which would allow
IBDF to retain ownership on and supervise the use of environmental protection
equipment financed by the project.   A condition of disbursement against the
first sawmill would be that final designs, satisfactory to the Bank, along
with corresponding management plans had been prepared by CODARON. The
                                   - 15 -



decision to build the second sawmill would be dependant upon a satisfactory
review by the state and federal governments of the results achieved (in terms
of steady supply of raw material and efficient marketing of the lumber
produced) by the first sawmill after a year of operation.

Education

3.21      The project would finance the construction and furnishing of seven
four-classroom schools and about 223 single classroom multigrade schools.
INCRA would be responsible for the construction, but all schools would be
equipped, operated ana maintained by the Secretariat of Education of
Rondonia, with the assistance of municipal authorities. Recruitment and
training of some 500 teachers and school operating costs are to be financed
by the state government, possibly with assistance from an education project
under preparation for Bank financing. The NUAR schools would provide upper
level primary education (grades 5 to 8) and administrative supervision of
surrounding multigrade schools. With two daily shifts of 40 students per
classroom, a total of 20,000 school places would be created, equivalent to
about 45% of the rural and urban school age population of close to 45,000
projected for 1989. The curriculum and calendar would be based on the survey
carried out under the NW I Agricultural Development Project.

Health

3.22      In complement to the Rondonia Health Project (Loan 2061-BR),
aiming at providing basic health services to rural populations and the
gradual reduction of incidence of malaria in the region, the project would
finance the construction and equipment by INCRA of (a) seven type-II health
posts in the project NUARs, each with 100 m2 of floor space, following a
standard modular design developed by SES-RO and found acceptable by the Bank;
and (b) 71 type-I health posts, each with 40 m2 of floor space, in
surrounding satellites. Two of the type-II health posts would later be
expanded by the Secretariat of Health of Rondonia (SES-RO) into referral
health centers, each with about 1,700 m2 of floor space, a 40-bed ward, a
laboratory, a delivery and operating room and medical and nursing offices.
The project would also finance various vehicles, including ambulances for the
referral centers and the training of 113 health professionals and auxiliaries
and 71 rural health workers. All health facilities would be operated and
maintained by SES-RO with the collaboration of municipal authorities. SES-RO
would also provide training of the persornel of the new health facilities
according to the program developed under Loan 2061-BR. Each NUAR health post
would be staffed by three health auxiliaries and be visited twice weekly by a
physician. They would provide both preventive and curative services,
including first aid, and serve as notification and drug distribution posts
for malaria control. Each satellite health post would be staffed by one
rural health worker. These posts would concentrate on prenatal care,
vaccination, health and nutrition education and limited curative treatment
and would also serve as malaria notification posts.

Social Organization

3.23      In line with earlier experience!in Rondonia, which has shown the
impact of communal self-help operations on previous development projects, the
project would help establish farmer organizations and develop community labor
through local agents of the State Secretariat of Labor and Social Promotion,
                                   -   16 -



working in close collaboration with ASTER-RO. Initially, some 20 settler
groups would be organized in the area of influenceof each NUAR. These
groups of settlerswould be trained to participatein various nutrition and
health education activitiesand in school constructionand maintenance. The
project would finance (a) construction and equipment of seven NUAR offices;
(b) vehicles for social extension; (c) trainingcourses for some 37 social
extensionists; and (d) staff salaries and other operating costs during
project implementation.

Special Activities

3.24      The identification, development and marketing of crops more
particularlysuited to the environmentalconstraintsof the agricultural
frontier,which is expanding into the tropical forest areas of the Amazon
basin, requires the establishmentof stable institutional  mechanismsto look
broadly and jointly at a variety of tropical tree crops, some already
relativelyextensivelygrown in Brazil without particularinstitutional
support--suchas coconut,babassu and, increasingly,oil palmr--and   other less
known crops with very favorablemarket prospects,such as guarana,cashew
nut, Brazil nut and various Amazonian fruit trees. The project would include
a componentto assist governmentagenciies  in reviewing the state-of-the-art
on various such crops, improving their capability to develop new cropping
opportunities and, as required, trying them out in the field. Under the
general guidanceof the General Secretariatof the Ministry of Agriculture
and coordinationof SUDECO and with the participationof various government
agencies involved in agriculturaland environmentalresearch and development,
such as the National Council for Science and Technology (CNPq), the National
Institute for Amazonian Research (INPA), various units of EMBRAPA, the
Brazilian Coffee (IBC) or Cocoa Institultes(CEPLAC), SUDHEVEAand IBDF, the
project would finance (a) travel and secretarialcosts of preliminary
encountersand seminarsamong these institutionsto define a plan of action
for the introductionof suitable new perennial crops in the Northwest region;
(b) ad-hoc studies and a synthesis of tlheresults of available adaptive
research and other studies,to be undertakenafter the conclusionof the
seminars; (c) travel of Brazilian and foreign specialistsfor international
contactswith specializedinstitutionsin Latin America, Asia and Africa
which have achievedconsiderableprogress in these fields; and (d) the
establishment costs of a few pilot tree crop diversification operations,as
recommendedby these studies. A critical evaluationof governmentproposals
for eventual tree crop institutions,recommendations  for inter-institutional
collaborationand assistancein the establishmentof pilot operationswould
be provided by up to 36 man-months of internationalconsultantservices to be
also financedby the project.

3.25      Provision would also be made imder the project to finance the
preparationof new regional developmentprojects in the Northwest region.
Various projectsare presentlyunder considerationby INCRA and the
governmentsof Rondonia and Mato Grosso under this component. It is INCRA's
intention to identify,for purposes of settlement in a later phase of the
NorthwestProgram, some 400,000 ha in two sites in the Guapore Valley of
Mato Grosso, where the land is under federal jurisdiction. The presence of
various Amerindiantribes in parts of tlae valley, combined with locally
                                   -   :L7
                                         -



complex cadastral situationsand soils which have good physical and
topographicalfeaturesbut low fertilityand a relativelyhigh aluminum ion
content make it necessary that (a) detailed surveys be conducted to identify
areas specificallysuited for small farmer settlementin view of annual and
perennial cropping;and (b) sophisticatedagriculturalproductionand
management techniquesbe developed,with a correspondingemphasis on the
selection of more competent farmers than those usually settled on INCRA
lands. Assuranceswere received from the federal governmentthat (a) a
detailed and costed plan of activitiesto be undertakenunder the special
activitiescomponentof the project, satisfactoryto the Bank, and
correspondinginstitutional  arrangementswould be finalized prior to June 30,
1984; (b) the nature and outline of new projects to be preparedwith project
fundingwould be reviewedwith the Bank prior to their preparation;   and (c)
consultantsrequired for the special studies would be recruited prior to June
30, 1985.

Project and NorthwestProgram Coordinationand Management

3.26      Since INCRA would play a leading role in the early and most costly
phases of the project (para 5.03), emphasiswould be on the institutional
strengtheningof INCRA headquartersand its regional delegationin Porto
Velho and on the adequate staffing of its field technical units to supervise
civil works and the settlementof new farmers. The project would finance (a)
office equipment,furniture and vehicles for the technical units of INCRA;
(b) salariesand other operating costs during project implementation  for
incrementalINCRA staff at the federal (five), regional (4) and NUAR (up to
140) levels; (c) 36 man-months of consulting services to assist the Porto
Velho and headquartersoffices of INCGA in the planning,monitoring and
supervisingof civil works; and (d) the continuationof Northwest Program
evaluationand coordinationbeyond the end of 1986 (para 5.07).

On-farm Investments

3.27      On-farm investments,totallingUS$89.4 million over the project
implementation period, including contiLngencies,would cover the establishment
of rubber (US$29.3million), coffee (US$8.9 million) and Amazonian fruit tree
plantations(US$31.5million) and the purchase of livestockand farm
implements (US$19.7million). As project farmers would have each less than
50 ha under agriculturalproduction, they would be entitled to 100%
financing,including family labor and, in the case of rubber, on-farm
processingunits, for those crops for which governmentcredit lines are
available (i.e. US$60.8 million for ruibberand fruit trees). Farmers would
rely on credit from private banks for their other investmentrequirements
(US$28.6million). Seasonal credit requirements   would build up to US$6.1
million per annum by year 6 of the project and would be financed through
governmentlines. Rubber credit would be financed through funds allocated to
the Rubber DevelopmentProgram (PROBOR)of SUDHEVEA. PROBOR loans are
evaluatedand approvedby SUDHEVEA and administered   by the Bank of Brazil
(BB) and by leading state or regional banks in the growing areas. The loans
are repayableover 13 years, with a grace period of seven years. Norms and
conditionsfor rubber loans were reviewed and found acceptableby the Bank.
PROBOR loans in the Northwest region would be subject to 70% of monetary
correctionplus 3% of interest,both to be capitalizedduring the grace
                                    -   18   -




period. Loans for fruit trees (and other perennial crops acceptable to the
Bank) would be subject to 85% monetary correction and 3% interest. These
conditions are in conformity with the overall agreement between the
government and the Bank on interest rates for agricultural credit. The
justification of the proposed subsidies on rubber loans is discussed in para
6.03. Fruit trees would be financed by,BB and other Banks approved by the
Central Bank in accordance with the lending policies and procedures set forth
in the Rural Credit Manual (MCR), which, are acceptable to the!Bank. The
credit component of the Bank loan would only finance the rubber and Amazonian
fruit tree crops investment requirements. Simplified access to credit for
settlers in the project area would require the gradual installation of bank
agencies or advanced credit posts in each NUAR. Assurances were received
from the federal government that it would (a) take all necessary
financial, legal and institutional measures, including the establishment of
an adequate banking infrastructure in the project area, to ensure the timely
availability of agricultural credit and promote its use by project
beneficiaries; and (b) exchange views with the Bank not later than (i)
December 15 in each year, on the funding mechanisms through which the
necessary credit resources would be made available to project farmers in the
following Northwest Program fiscal year; and (ii) June 30, 1984, on the
adequacy of the lending policies and procedures set forth in the MCR for the
perennial crops to be financed under the project.

                   E.   Activities Parallel to the Project

3.28      The main activity parallel to the project is the construction and
maintenance of feeder roads and limited NUAR infrastructure by the BEC, as
discussed in paras 3.13 and 3.14. Other parallel activities include the
routine maintenance of all roads, the operation of education and health
facilities and the supply of improved seeds by state agencies. The Rondonia
government would (a) provide timely and adequate funding for routine road
maintenance and education and health operating costs; and (b) enter into
agreements with each municipality in the project area, by June 30, 1984,
defining their respective responsibilities in road maintenance and education
and health facilities operation and maintenance. Within an ongoing program
for the production and distribution of improved seeds, basic seeds are
produced in Rondonia by UEPAE-RO. CODARON is responsible for seed
multiplication through selected farmers. Assurances were received from the
state government that the improved seed requirements of the proposed project
would be met in a timely fashion through its ongoing seed supply program.

                     IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING

                              A.   Project Cost

4.01      The total project cost over the six year implementation period is
estimated at about US$1l2 million, including agricultural investment credit
requirements for rubber and tropical tree crops, financed by the project, of
which about US$34 million (19%) is in foreign exchange and about US$11
million are taxes. The total cost includes physical contingencies equivalent
to 7% of baseline costs and price contingencies of 26% of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs
at 13% for road construction, 10% for other civil works, equipment and
training, 20% for mechanized road maintenance and 5% for incremental
                                                          -   19   -




                                             Table        4.1:     TOTAL.PROJECT COSTS
                                                                 (US$ million)

                          Activity                                      Total    Local    Foreign   F.E.X     % of
                                                                                                              Baseline
                                                                                                              Cost

Production       Infrastructure

Mapping, surveying,         demarcation        and titling               8.7      7.1       1.6      20            6
Rural roads I/                                                          29.1     17.8      11.3      40           21
NUAR and satellite         infrastructure            2t                  7.1      5.8       1.3      20            5
Agricultural       research                                              2.1      1.9       0.2      10            1
Technical     assistance      to farmers                                11.3     10.5       0.8      10            8
Drying and storage                                                       3.5      2.9       0.6      20            3
Input supply                                                             1.0      0.8       0.2      20            1
Forestry     development                                                 6.1      5.1       1.0      15            5
Sawmills                                                                 2.6      2.2       0.4      15            2

Social    Infrastructure
Social    organization                                                    1.5      1.4      0.1      10            1
Education                                                                 3.4      2.8      0.6      20            3
Health                                                                    4.0      3.2      0.8      20            3

Project      and Program      Coordination                                6.5      6.1      0.4       5            5

Special      Activities                                                   1.7      0.7       1.0     60            1

On-farm      Investment       3/                                         46.8     42.1      4.7      10           35

Total Baseline   Cost                                                   135.4    110.4     25.0      18       100
    Physical   contingencies                                              9.2      6.7      2.5      27.        7
    Price contingencies                                                  37.2     30.4      6.8      18        27

Total     Project    Cost                                                181.8    147.5    34.3      19       134

Front-end   fee on loan                                                    0.2              0.2
Total financing   required                                               182.0    147.5    34.5



1/      Excludes works implemented         by the Civil Engineering       Battalions,     financed     entirely        by the
        government.
2/      Excluding   drying/storage,       input supply,     sawmills,  education      and health    facilities         located
        in the NUARs.
 3/     Excluding   coffee    and livestock     investment,    not subject     to project    financing.
                                    - 20 -



operating costs. No physical contingencieswere considered for the credit
component. Price contingencieswere calculatedin US dollar terms, based on
internationalinflation rates estimated at &0 for calendar 1983, 7.5% for
1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% from 1986 on. It was assumed that periodic local
currency devaluationswould compensatefor any differencebetween world and
domestic inflation. Project costs are summarized in Table 4.1 and the annual
phasing of investmentsis shown in Table 3. Costs of parallelactivities
essential for project implementation but not subject to Bank financingare
shown in Table 4.

                               B.   Firuncing

4.02     The proposed Bank loan of US$65.2 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would include US$0.2 million to cover the cost of the
front end fee assessed by the Bank, capitalizedat the request of government,
and US$65.0 million which would finance during the 1983 and 1984 fiscal years
of the Northwest Program 50%, net of taLxes,or about 46%, including taxes, of
project costs and, thereafter,35% of the same costs, net of taxes, or 33%,
including taxes. This would include the foreign exchange component of
costs, or US$34.3 million, plus the equivalent of about US$30.7 million of
local costs and would correspond, overaLll,to 38% of total project costs, net
of taxes. The loan would be for 15 years, including three years of grace.
The balance of project financing would be provided mainly by the federal
government through funds already earmarked for the Northwest Program, some of
which would be channelledthrough the state government (see Table 5). In
addition, the federal governmentwould finance constructionaLnd maintenance
works carried out by the BEC (about US$27 million) and seasonalcredit
(US$6.1 million), and the state government would finance routine road
maintenance (about US$2 million) and teacher salaries, which were not
included in project costs. Operating costs of health facilities would be
covered by rural social security funds. Investment credit for coffee (about
US$8.9 million) and livestock (about US$19.7 million) would come mainly from
commercial lines of credit. Since project farms are all under 50 ha, on-farm
development costs would be eligible for 100% financing through the various
credit lines.

4.03      To ensure the timely and effective implementation of the project,
various start-up activities such as photo-interpretation, soil surveys,
engineering designs and some road construction have already been initiated.
Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0 million is proposed to help cover
eligible expenditures made before loan signature but after November 4, 19S2.

                              C.    Procurement

4.04     Civil works for farm access roads (US$38 million) and NUARs,
satellites, drying and storage, input supply, logging and milling, education
and health facilities(US$19 million) would be executedby contract following
local competitivebidding procedures,which are acceptableto the Bank.
Brazil has a competitive local construction industry which is capable of
carrying out project works. Foreign firms would not be excluded,but
experiencein the Northwest region shows that they are not likely to be
interested given the remote and dispersed locations and difficult access.
These civil work contracts represent close to 70% of project costs which
would be subject to bidding procedures. Individual contracts are expected to
                                   - 21 -



be of the order of US$1 to US$3 million. Mechanized maintenance of access
roads (US$4.1 million) would also be let out through local competitive
bidding. Miscellaneous works for the construction of research units and
forest control and environmental supervision posts as well as forest
inventories and management plans, totalling US$1.9 million, would be carried
out either by force account or through small-scale contracts. Vehicles
purchased in small lots and minor machinery and equipment to be acquired by a
variety of executing agencies for a total of about US$4 million over the
project implementation period would be purchased directly from local dealers
or through government purchasing agencies, in agreement with existing
government procedures. For all contracts exceeding US$500,000, the Bank
would review and approve standard procuriementdocuments and specifications
prior to bidding and bid evaluations and award recommendations prior to
signing of contracts for civil works, mechanized maintenance or equipment.
Consultancy services (totalling some 126 man-months) for technical assistance
and special studies would be procured in accordance with corresponding Bank
guidelines, both locally and internationally, at base costs ranging from
US$5,000 to US$9,000 per month, of which about 80% would be fees and 20%
other costs. Procurement arrangements are detailed in Table 4.2 overleaf.

                              D. Disbursements

4.05       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of a
uniform rate of 44% during the first two years and 32% thereafter, except for
consultants and special studies, for which disbursements would be at a rate
of 100% of total costs, including fees, travel, services and equipment.
Disbursements for civil works executed by force account, mechanized road
maintenance contracts and operational expenses, including credit, would be
made under Statements of Expenditures initiated by the various executing
agencies and certified by SUDECO. Supporting documentation would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the agency responsible for
their certification and would be made available for inspection by the Bank
during project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil
works, vehicles, machinery, equipment and technical assistance would be
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements for road designs under force account
would be made at a standard rate of US$L8D equivalent per kilometer of road.
Disbursements are expected to occur over a period of six years. The
disbursement schedule (Table 6) reflects the disbursement profile for
 previous agricultural projects in Brazil, adjusted slightly to take into
account improvements likely to result from the establishment of a Special
Account (see below). The closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1989.

4.06      In order to reduce the interval during which the government would
finance the Bank's share of project financing with its own resources, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit
of US$4.0 million. The government may request the Bank to make advance
payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account.
Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date of the expenditure. The Central
Bank would send the corresponding Statements of Expenditure to the Bank,
which would then replenish the Special Account.
                                                        -   22 -




                         Table     4.2:   PROCUREMENT    ARRANGEMENTS
                                           (US$ million)


Project      Element                            Procurement          Method
                                          ICB       LCB              Other        N.A.           Total

On-farm      Investment          Credit   -             -                  -      60.8            60.8
                                          -             -                  -    (22.0)           (22.0)

Mapping,     surveying,                   -       11.1                 0.2        -                  11.3
   demarcation      & titling             -       (3.8)               (0.1)       -                  (3.9)
Design and civil         works
for farm access         roads             -       33.1                 0.2        -                38.3
                                                 (12.9)               (0.1)       -              (13.0)
Civil  works for          NUARs
   and Satellites                         -       13.8                -           -                  18.8
                                                  (6.4)                -          -              (    6.4)
Miscellaneous          works              -        --                   1.9       -                   1.9
                                                    -                 (0.7)       -                  (0.7)
Machinery       and equipment             -       10.5                  4.0       -                  14.5
                                          -       (3.6)               (1.4)       -                  (5.0)
Training                                  -        --                  -           2.1                2.1
                                          _        --                  -         (0.7)               (0.7)
Technical   assistance
  and special      studies                -        --                  -          2.6                 2.6
                                          _        --                  -         (2.6)               (2.6)
Mechanized        road    maintenance               4.1                -          -                   4.1
                                                   (1L-4)              _          -                  (1.4)
Other      operating      expenses        -        --                  -         27.4                27.4
                                          _         *.                 -        (9.3)            (9.3)

          TOTAL                           -       82.6                 6.3       92.9            181.8
                                          _      (28. 1)              (2.3)     (34.6)           (65.0)



Note:       The figures  in parentheses           are       the    respective         amounts   financed
            by the Bank.
                                                - 23 -



                               V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

                          A.   Northwest        Program Coordination

5.01      The Northwest Region Development Program was created by                 Decree No.
86029 of May 27, 1981. Responsibility for program administration                  has been
entrusted to SUDECO, a regional superintendency attached to the                   Ministry of
Interior (MINTER). Inter-Ministerial Orders describe the ways in                  which
MINTER, SEPLAN-PR and other        ministries      and state   governments   should
collaborate,   as well as the various programming, budgeting and fund
disbursement   procedures.  At the state level, a Program Coordination Unit
(PCU) was established     within    the Secretariat       of Planning   and Coordination   of
the State of Rondonia (SEPLAN-RO) under the first phase of the program.

                        B. Project Managementand Organization

Project Implementation and Coordination

5.02      The principal implementation agencies for the New Settlements
project would be INCRA, SUDHEVEA, IBDF and the Rondonia government (see paras
3.02 through 3.05). A list of executing and collaborating agencies is given
in Table 7. Project organization is presented in Chart 2. The project would
come under the overall budgetary and administrative coordination of SUDECO
and SEPLAN-PR at the federal level. The coordination of work programs and
consolidation of monitoring reports at the state level would be carried out
by the local office of SUDECO on the basis of information provided by the PCU
and the local offices of federal agencies. These documents would be
forwarded to SUDECO headquarters where they would be further cross-checked
with information provided by the headquarters of federal agencies before
incorporation into quarterly monitoring and progress reports. Project staff
of the various agencies would be trained through the Northwest Program staff
training component financed through Loan 2060-BR, except for health
personnel, which is to be trained with iunds from Loan 2061-BR.

Construction of Project Infrastructure

5.03      A special task force set up in the Department of Operations (DOP)
of INCRA would be responsible for the (a) coordination, management,
monitoring and reporting of project related INCRA activities; (b) annual
planning and budgeting; (c) preparation of detailed settlement plans; and (d)
bidding and contracting. The Porto Velho office would be reinforced with a
technical project unit to provide planning and field level supervision of
road and NUAR works. Earlier projects have proven the availability of
national and regional contractors capable of undertaking all infrastructure
construction works. Road maintenance activities would be coordinated by
DER-RO. The BEC would maintain the feeder roads until the end of access road
construction works on each settlement site. DER-RO would then be responsible
for the mechanized maintenance of the entire road network and the routine
maintenance of the feeder road network, included in the state network. The
municipalities would be responsible for the routine maintenance of their
respective farm access roads. A strong effort is under way under the NW I
Highway project to strengthen the maintenance capability of DER-RO, which
would also assist area municipalities. Assurances were received from the
                                    - 24 -



federal government that INCRA would (a) by June 30, 1984, employ, in
accordance with Bank guidelines, a consultant with qualificaLtions
satisfactory to the Bank to assist in planning, designing and supervising all
project construction works; (b) appoint as soon as possible the necessary
technical staff with qualifications and experience to plan, administer and
monitor INCRA activities within the project; and (c) keep such positions
continuously staffed throughout the project implementation period.

Forestry Development

5.04      Reserve areas would be identified and administrative and
operational arrangements defined by INCRA and IBDF jointly, but demarcated by
INCRA. IBDF's Department of Economics would prepare forest inventories and
management plans and acquaint farmers with the potential value of the
forest. Technical assistance to farmers would be provided (a) by the local
extension agencies, with subject matter orientation from IBDF, for salvage
logging; and (b) directly by IBDF, until Rondonia establishes its own
forestry institute, for the management of the forest reserves. The
establishment of a training center for workers in the sawmilling industry is
being separately studied by the state government. IBDF's Department of
Commerce would establish and operate the forest products control network
infrastructure. IBDF would also be responsible for the control of natural
reserves and endangered species in Rondonia.

Annual Planning and Budgeting

5.05      Comprehensive updated annual planning would adjust, detail and cost
initially agreed targets and activities. As for the other Northwest
projects, INCRA, SUDHEVEA, IBDF and the state would furnish to the federal
authorities by August 31 each year, their preliminary project budget
estimates for the fiscal year beginning the following April. By September 30
each year, the federal authorities wou:Ld notify INCRA, SUDHEVEA, IBDF and the
state of the preliminary financial allocations for the project. After this,
each federal and state agency would prepare a detailed plan of activities and
expenditures for the following fiscal year. By December 31 of each year, the
plans would be consolidated by SUDECO, ensuring their internal consistency
and their integration into other programs and plans under execution in
Rondonia. These plans would serve as the basis for the yearly budget
allocation. The proposed annual project budgets and operating plans would be
submitted to the Bank, for review and comment, no later than January 31 of
each year, and the Bank would be advised of the approved plan and budget as
soon as they are formally approved. Some delays were observed in the
budgeting of the ongoing phases of the program, but the process is expected
to gain in efficiency as the numerous agencies involved become more familiar
with it.

Monitoring

5.06      The monitoring system established for the Northwest Program would
be extended to the proposed project and provide for the collection and
analysis of information to compare project achievements with targets, alert
management to problems as they may emerge and provide a basis for annual
planning. Data provided by the executing agencies on a quarterly basis would
be consolidated by SUDECO, through its Rondonia office. The reports would
also provide (a) indicators of the quality of services provided; (b) agency,
                                      - 25 -



state and SUDECO comments on special problems and steps taken to overcome
these problems; and (c) preliminary information on project impact on the
target population and agricultural production, established by state level
staff of SUDECO on the basis of field supervision and interviews. These
periodic impact reports would be incorporated into the regular progress
reports. Measures to improve the present Northwest monitoring and reporting
system are being studied with SUDECO. Assurances were received from the
federal government that the quarterly monitoring and progress reports would
be provided to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the
respective Northwest Program fiscal quarter.

Evaluation

5.07      Evaluation of the Northwest Program strategy, performance and
impact on the region's population and environment has been contracted by
SUDECO to the Economic Research Institute (FIPE) of the University of Sao
Paulo and is financed under the first phase of the Program. This project's
evaluation would be done within the same framework until the end of 1986,
when the first phase is expected to be completed, and continued with funds
from this project thereafter. A mid-term review of Northwest Program
execution as of March 31, 1984 is to be completed by June 31, 1984, in
accordance with agreements reached under Loan 2060-BR. Finally, a completion
report, giving an assessment of program impact, is to be provided to the Bank
within six months of the final completion of the program. Assurances
covering the timely evaluation of the program, including this project, were
received within the framework of the first phase of the Northwest Program.

Accounts and Auditing

5.08      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by the Central
Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of SEPLAN-PR according to standard
government practice, which is satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audit
report on the various participating agencies would be provided to the Bank
through SUDECO within six months of the end of each fiscal year of the
Northwest Program. This audit report would also convey the auditor's opinion
(and comments as necessary) on the methodology employed in the compilation of
the Statements of Expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements and the standards of record-keeping and internal controls related
to the foregoing. The Special Account (para 4.06) would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.

                  VI.   PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES

                           A.   Agricultural Production

Crop Production

6.01      Agricultural production in the project area is expected to result
from the settlement of some 15,000 small farmers. Individual plots will be
of 25 or 40 ha depending on (a) soil quality; and (b) cropping patterns which
can be developed using mainly family labor (about 3 ha of perennials, 2 to 3
ha of annual crops, 4 to 5 ha of improved pasture, 7.5 to 12 ha of fallow and
the remainder unsuited for agricultural production). Three farm models,
                                    -   :26-


defined by the main perennial crop grown--coffee, rubber or tropical fruit
trees--are discussed in Chapter VII and Table 8. At full development, some
45,000 ha are expected to be planted to perennial crops (18,000 ha to rubber,
11,300 ha to coffee and 15,700 ha to various fruit trees) and some 39,000 ha
to annual crops (rice, corn, beans and cassava), under the aegis of the
project. Another 64,000 ha would be under improved pasture. These
objectives would be achieved through the (a) development of the necessary
infrastructure in the project area; (b)lproper selection of areas suitable
for perennial crops and a continuous rotation of annual crops; (c) provision
of technical assistance, input supply and credit; (d) adopticinof proper
timing and density of planting for annual crops with increased utilization of
improved seeds and/or planting material; (e) introduction of proper pest and
disease control; (f) reduction of post harvest losses through improved drying
and storage practices; (g) gradual adoption of proper crop rotation
techniques, fertilizers, and legumes for pastures; and (h) reduction of labor
constraints through an increased use of animal traction.

6.02      The farmers are expected to plant perennial crops soon after
settlement. Annual crops which are not intercropped with perennials would,
initially, use traditional slash-and-burn cultivation practices until, by
about the seventh year, all areas with suitable soils would have been
cleared. Improvements during this period would be limited to the use of
improved planting material, sanitary control and on-farm post-harvest
operations. Once the farm has been fully cleared, the farmers are expected,
with the help of a more elaborate technical assistance package, to adopt a
crop rotation involving the use of fertilizers and of a leguminous cover on
fallow areas. The yields assumed reflect the relatively low level of
technology of the farmers and its gradual improvement through direct
technical assistance. Net yields would reach, at full development, 1.4 t/ha
for rice, 1.2 t/ha for corn, 0.5 t/ha for beans and 4.2 t/ha of cassava
flour. At peak production, rubber would yield 1 t/ha (dry rubber content);
coffee 2 t/ha of dried cherries; guarana, 750 kg/ha of dried cherries; and
Brazil nut, 800 kg/ha. These yields are about 30% below what the more
progressive farmers of the area could obtain given constraints of soils and
availability of inputs and support services.

6.03      The main perennial crop to be promoted by the project would be
rubber. Rubber is considered to provide a stable and environmentally safe
cropping opportunity with favorable marlket prospects to settlers coming into
Amazon areas of moderate to marginal fertility. The government has an
ambitious country-wide program of credit;and incentives to promote the
cultivation of natural rubber (PROBOR), aiming at planting, in three stages,
up to some 350,000 ha. SUDHEVEA is in the process of strengthening its own
technical assistance capacity to assist and monitor directly the
beneficiaries of the PROBOR program. Adequate planting material is generally
available from local nurseries. There is a need for good training of rubber
tappers, but this can be achieved well before the new plantations reach
maturity. Results achieved in rubber areas already in production in the
region (Mato Grosso) demonstrate that (a) the incidence of South American
Leaf Blight (SALB) is limited by the local climatic conditions and could be
further constrained with known methods to combat the disease; and (b) rubber
can provide satisfactory returns to smallholders even with the lower domestic
prices expected to prevail when project plantations reach maturity (para
6.07) with the present production methods and yield expectations, which have
been used as the basis for the rubber farm model (para 7.01). The financial
results would be roughly comparable to those that could be achieved from
                                   - 27 -



coffee plantation on similar moderate quality soils. However, with less than
10,000 ha of plantation rubber under tapping nationwide, rubber is yet a crop
little known to settlers arriving in Rondonia. It also has a long maturing
period (seven years), compared to that of coffee (about three years), a crop
with which settlers are much more familiarc. A special program of incentives,
including the proposed subsidies, is therefore justified in order to overcome
the initial inertia and risk aversion of farmers. The cultivation of rubber
would be the subject of intensive and continuous attention from SUDHEVEA,
including (a) the selection of areas best suited for rubber cultivation; (b)
the selection of farmer families which would be settled in those areas and
eligible for rubber credit; (c) the grouping of individual plots to be
planted to rubber into 45 to 60 ha blocks, preferably along an access road,
to ensure better technical assistance and control; (d) the provision of the
main inputs in kind, with credit at the new official rates for all crop
establishment expenditures, including family labor; and a close supervision
of the use of credits and grants; (e) SUDHEVEA-operated demonstration and
tapper training plots; and (f) the availability of credit for the
establishment of on-farm air-dried sheet processing units and/or central
crumb rubber units.

6.04      Coffee is expected to be planted spontaneously by many settlers.
The project does not promote its cultivation since no government credit and
little technical assistance is available for coffee planting. The risk that
areas planted to coffee exceed the estimated 11,300 ha is limited by a
general lack of suitable soils, the unfavorable market outlook and government
policies which tend to favor rubber more than coffee. The diversification of
perennial cropping through the introduction of a variety of tropical fruit
trees would be enhanced by the (a) project-financed establishment of
nurseries; (b) specialized technical assistance and research; (c) further
promotion by government of recently established investment credit lines for
guarana and Brazil nut and their extension to other fruit trees; and (d)
special studies, financed by the project, to develop more diversified
cropping patterns in the region (see para 3.24).

6.05      At October 198& farmgate prices, annual agricultural production
induced by the project at full development is expected to amount to about
US$117 million (see Table 9). Of this, some 14% is due to annual crops, 60%
to perennial crops (28% to rubber, 12% to coffee, 81 to guarana and Brazil
nut and 12% to other fruits) and 26% to the production of eggs, meat and
milk. The range of perennial crops is expected to broaden with the expansion
of the marketing apparatus for tropical fruits and the availability of
research results.

Forestry Production

6.06      The major part of forestry production would be generated in the
agglomerated reserves, which would only be developed some eight to ten years
after the settlement of a given site, when most of the agricultural area
would have been cleared and wood from salvage logging would no longer be
forthcoming. Because of the imbalance between rapid deforestation and
limited markets, modest results are expected from salvage logging, of the
order of 4 m3 per hectare cleared. This result would be achieved by
expanding the present practice of recovering some 2 m3 /ha of the most
valuable (mahogany and cerejeiro) species to a wider variety of trees which
can satisfy local demand. The actual amount of timber that would be obtained
                                    - 28 -



from the permanent reserves would only be known after inventories, financed
by the project, are completed. Farm budgets prepared for the project exclude
income from the reserves, since the role of the farmers in their management
is not yet clearly determined. A conservative estimate of an average
extraction of 0.5 m3 of timber per hectare per year was assumed for economic
analysis purposes.

                       B.   Demand, Marlkets and Prices

Markets and Prices for Agricultural Prolucts

6.07      World demand for elastomers in the medium- to long-term is expected
to increase at a rate providing ample opportunities for the expansion of
areas planted in rubber throughout the world. About 60% of Brazil's
75,000 ton/year natural rubber and one-eighth of its 200,000 ton/year
synthetic rubber requirements are imporled. Currently about 100,000 ha are
planted to rubber in Brazil, but most oi it has not yet reached production,
and about 80% of the present output comes from relatively inefficient wild
rubber tapping. Yet, Brazil is considered to have a long-term potential to
become a net rubber exporter, and plans embodied in the PROBOR Program should
allow the country to approach self-sufficiency by the time the proposed
project reaches full development. High taxes on rubber imports, established
to temporarily protect wild rubber producers and used to finance SUDHEVEA
activities, currently result in a 2.5-to-one ratio between Brazilian and
world natural rubber farmgate prices. This ratio can only decrease as
plantation production increases, replacing wild rubber tapping and imports.
However, international prices are expected to increase in real terms by some
50% over the next 10 years, leaving scope for continued attractive prices to
domestic producers. The financial analysis of the rubber model assume a
decrease of farmgate prices by about 25%, leaving them only about 25% above
correspondingworld farmgate prices by 1995 but slightly below the economic
price of rubber imported to Brazil. By the end of project implementation,
some 14,700 ha of rubber would have been planted by small farmers in
Rondonia. This figure would reach 18,000 ha at full development.

6.08      Brazil produces around 29% of the world's coffee, and contributes
some 26% to the world export market. High prices in 1979 were followed by
lower price levels which are expected to persist in the medium term, in light
of world economic conditions. World markets are expected to grow, though
slowly, in the next decade. The severe frost of July 1981 in southern Brazil
killed or severely damaged an estimated 310 million coffee trees, resulting
in a net decrease of areas planted to coffee in Brazil of some 135,000 ha
between 1981 and the end of 1982.4/ Project coffee production would
represent less than 0.5% of the average Brazilian production during the last
two years or less than 0.2% of recent world production. The International
Coffee Organization (ICO) of which Brazil is a major member, has cautioned
against investments in projects designed to increase coffee production
significantly,unless such increased production is part of an integrated
rural development program and is offset by reduced production from marginal
areas taken out of coffee. The proposed project meets these criteria. In
addition, coffee is an excellent pioneer crop, providing substantial cash
earnings to settler families after only a short maturation period. Bank
projections were used for the economic price of coffee, and farmgate prices
were assumed to vary in a similar proportion.

 4/   In comparison, some 11,300 ha are expected to be planted in coffee in
      the project area and produce, at full development (around 1997) some
      7,500 tons/year of green coffee beans.
                                      -   29 -



6.09      The growth in regional rural and urban demand for fruits and other
foodstuffs is expected to absorb all project production. Guarana and Brazil
nuts would be sent to the Sao Paulo and export markets. Rice, beans and
cassava would be consumed mainly on the farm and within the project area,
with surpluses sent to neighboring urban centers. Maize would be consumed
mostly by local livestock and poultry. Since present production of guarana
is very low, a 50% decrease of present prices were assumed both for the
financial and economic analyses. Other economic prices are based on Bank
projections, and farmgate prices are assumed to remain constant although
competition for suitable soils between food, export and fuel crops is
expected to gradually move food crop prices upward.

Markets for Forestry Products

6.10      There were some 150 sawmills officially registered in 1979 in
Rondonia, with sales of the order of 320,000 m3 . In 1982, the number of
sawmills was estimated around 260, excluding a large number operating without
official registration. Although sawmilling represents the largest industrial
activity of Rondonia, some 95% of the enterprises are of an artisanal
nature. Mahogany and "cerejeira" are the only species properly processed and
marketed. Due to a lack of competition among regional sawmillers, a
substantial part of the wood extracted leaves the region unprocessed, and
other valuable species, such as cedar and "ipe," are most often left to burn
or rot in the areas cleared for agricultural or hydro-electric purposes. At
the same time, local demand, amplified by ongoing NUAR construction works,
suffers from an inadequate supply of construction material and, because no
other types of wood are processed in significant volumes, meets its
requirements by purchasing wood of a quality superior to its needs, which
would, otherwise, have found export outlets. Immediate market possibilities
for wood felled in agricultural areas would be generated by establishing
processing units which would process secondary species to attend more
particularly to local demand for NUAR and farm house construction and
furniture.

                              C. Marketing Channels

6.11      Private intermediaries such as local processing facility
owners, merchants, and truckers for large marketing firms are very active in
adjoining areas and would be the main marketing channels in the project area,
collecting about 70% of total production. Some merchants  advance funds or
goods in return for a guarantee that they can purchase a farmer's produce at
a-price discounted to compensate for interest and inflation. The government
purchases grains through the Minimum Price Scheme when market prices go below
a pre-determined minimum. Transportation costs, financing and access to
drying and storage facilities, which have been identified as key marketing
constraints, would be improved through various components of the project,
reducing any monopsonistic power of the buyers.

                          VII. FINANCIALANALYSIS

                         A.     IllustrativeFarm Models

7.01      The three farm models analyzed in Table 8 were based on production
and cost information gathered from field surveys by INCRA in areas close to
                                    - 30 -



the proposed settlement sites prior to the substantial devaluation of the
cruzeiro at mid-February 1983 and are intended to reflect the probable
developmental behavior of prospective settlers. Considering the export and
import-substitution orientation of farm production and the low use of
imported inputs, the impact of the devaluation on the farm budgets, if any,
should be favorable. Financial prices for inputs and production are given in
Table 10. Estimated financial rates of return to investment range from 15%
in the rubber farm model on average soils to 36% in the coffee farm model on
the better soils, suitable for that crop. The sensitivity of the financial
rates of return to 20% and 40% reductiLonsin yields (or prices) of the main
crops (rubber, tropical fruits and coffee) was tested. None of the rates of
return dropped below 12% and 8%.respectively under the two assumptions.
Subsidized credit would ensure better returns to rubber farmers than shown by
the computation of returns to investment, which, by its nature, cannot
reflect the impact of such subsidies. Due to the long maturing period of
rubber and the long spread of its planting, full project development would
only be reached around the year 1998. However, already by 1993, annual
income from the project would reach 80% of its full value.

                                        Income
                             B. Produicer

7.02      The 19 S income of the targeted settlers, most often families which
have already migrated to the region and are employed as hired field workers
while waiting to be allocated their own plot, is estimated, on the average,
to be about US$1,500, i.e., below the rural poverty level for Brazil, which
is about US$330 per capita, or about US$2,000 for an average family of six.
At full development, the average annual farm family income would increase
four-fold to about US$6,000. Return to family labor would more than double,
going from the October 1982 daily wage of US$4.50 for unskilled labor to an
income of around US$11/day, in 1982 terms, at full development.

                     C.   Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery

7.03      It has not been government policy to directly recover the full
investment costs of projects directed principally to lower income settlers.
Furthermore, because of highly subsidized and very long repayment periods,
actual recovery of settlement costs by INCRA has only been nominal. INCRA is
now in the process of defining new cost recovery procedures, which would be
applied to all its new settlements in Brazil and would aim at recovering a
substantial part of basic settlement costs in real terms without, however,
putting an excessive financial burden on prospective settlers. The new
procedures should be finalized within about six months. Assurances were
received from the federal government that (a) INCRA would finalize, publish
and put into effect its new settlement cost recovery terms no later than
June 30, 1984; and (b) these terms wou:Ld allow the overall recovery, in real
terms, of a sum equivalent to at least 40% of the survey, acquisition,
demarcation and titling costs of the agricultural plots and reserves, the
construction costs of feeder, access and penetration roads, NUARs and
satellite centers and the cost of forest inventories and management plans.
Recovery of 40% of investment costs from agricultural settlers is considered
to be reasonable, considering that projiect-financedfacilities would also
benefit urban dwellers and future spontaneous settlers or farm workers in the
                                    - 31 -



area, would have a commercial impact outside the area, and would eventually
generate additional fiscal revenues. The remainder of investment costs would
be borne, over the long term, by the federal budget. As agricultural
production increases, however, substantial fiscal benefits would be obtained
from the taxation of marketed project production. At an average rate of
13.5% on the value of sales, the marketing tax (ICM) paid by merchants and
intermediaries would, at full developmerLt,with improved collection measures
allowing the taxation of about 70% of marketed outputs, produce annual
revenues to the state of Rondonia of the!order of US$9.8 million, at March
1983 prices. This compares to some US$'5.6million per year in recurrent
costs required to operate and maintain the infrastructure and non-commercial
services established under the project, other than road maintenance.
Experience in Brazil shows that various road user charges and taxes are
sufficient to cover road maintenance costs. Rural Social Security revenues
levied at 2.5% on the value of marketed production, would amount to some
US$2.0 million per year at full development and would be used to cover health
expenditures (US$2.3 million) in the project area. Users of drying and
storage units, pilot sawmills and input supplies would pay for most of the
operating and maintenance costs, including depreciation, of these services.
The federal government would generate annual coffee export tax revenues of
about US$6.6 million at full development. The excess in annual federal and
state revenues over operating expenditures, of about US$10.8 million per
annum at full development, would compensate in part for investment costs not
recovered by INCRA and operating costs iinthe early years. The cost of rural
credit to the government should be considerably reduced as subsidies are
gradually phased out.

                VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION

                        A.   Economic   Rate   of Return

8.01      The economic rate of return to the directly productive components
of the proposed investments (representing about 88% of total project
investment costs) has been estimated at 26%. For various other aspects of
the project, such as the health and education components, which have
significant but no readily quantifiable benefits, no economic rate of return
was calculated. The benefits expected from the project transcend, however,
its purely economic results, since the project provides for an institutional
development which would allow a wide replication of the cost-effective
procedures developed for this project, while (a) avoiding the degradation of
the Amazonian environment which would otherwise occur with large numbers of
immigrants spontaneously entering areas possibly unsuited for agriculture and
limited, for lack of infrastructure and services, to annual crops and
shifting cultivation; and (b) providing these migrants with adequate services
and assistance to limit the severe personal risks to which they would
otherwise be subjected. Economic price assumptions are detailed in Table 10,
and the cost and benefit streams assumed in the economic analysis are given
in Table 11.

8.02      The cost stream used in the economic rate of return analysis
includes (a) all on-farm incremental investment and operating costs; (b)
project investment costs related to agricultural production; and (c)
recurrent costs of production-related services, such as extension,research,
forestry development, project coordination and maintenance of productive
infrastructure during and after the six years of project implementation.
                                       -   32   -




The benefit stream includes (a) the economic value of the increasing
productionof the farmers gradually settled over the six years of the
project,minus their pre-projectincome; and (b) the net value added by NUAR
inhabitantsemployed in non-agricultural  sectors. Non-agricultural  benefits
derived from the rural road network and NUAR infrastructure were assessed on
the basis of a conservativeestimate af populationgrowth in the NUARs (400
families per NUAR five years after the establishment of a given NUAR and 40
families per satellitecenter), assuming that the average value added per
NUAR family is about US$500 on the second year of a family's establishment,
increasingto US$2,000 per annum as of the fourth year (para 8.05).

8.03      The prices used in the economic analysis for inputs and outputs
traded on the international market were based on world price trends adjusted
to take into account processing, transport,handling and insurancecosts. Of
the project products,Brazil is a net exporter of coffee, guarana, Brazil nut
and rice, and a net importerof rubber and, periodically,rice, corn, beans
and meat. Brazil is also a net importer of fertilizer. Non-tradedgoods,
such as cassava,were valued at local farmgate prices. Most of these prices
are expected to remain stable or increase over the next decade. Labor was
priced at the wages prevailingin the region, which are currently twice the
wages in other parts of Brazil, but are expected to drop, in real terms, to
75% of the present high wages from year 6 on, as migrants continue to arrive
and a more balanced labor situationis generated. Foreign exchange costs and
benefitswere adjusted upward by 20% to reflect trade-distorting  tariffs,
subsidies,advance import deposits, export taxes and quantitative
restrictions.

8.04      The rate of return also takes into considerationthe direct impact
of the new infrastructure on the creation of urban job opportunities.
Excluding urban value added, the economic rate of return of the project would
drop to about 24%. Sensitivitytests reflectingthe impact of possible
changes in the economicenvironmenton the project's stream of costs and
benefits show (Table 8.1) that the returns are relativelysensitive to lags
in production(once the infrastructure has been completed). In view of the
high rates of immigrationand the corr,esponding pressure on agricultural
land, the avoidanceof delays in productionwould depend mainly on the
institutionalefficiencyof the lead project agencies.

              Table 8.1: SENSITIVITYTESTS ON ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN

               Best estimate:                                           26%
  Test   1:    All costs up by 20%:                                     21%
  Test   2:    All benefits down by 20%:                                20%
  Test   3:    One year lag in all benefits:                            20%
  Test   4:    Two-yearlag in all benefits:                             16%
  Test   5:    Costs up by 20% and one-yeiarlag in benefits:            16%
  Test   6:    Exclusion of urban benefits:                             24%
  Test   7:    Switchingvalues (opportun:Lty cost of capital = 11%)
                                   achievedwhen all costs up by         68 or
                                                 all benefits down by   40%
                                      - 33 -.



                  B.                        and Employment
                       Project BeneficiariLes

8.05      Project infrastructure and serviicesare expected to benefit all
15,000 farm and some 5,600 urban families expected to settle in the project
area by 1988. Experience with similar settlements in the Northwest region
has shown, however, that urban development which accompanies agricultural
settlement, and which the project would facilitate by the provision of NUAR
infrastructure, could, in the longer term, result in approximately equivalent
numbers of rural and urban families. Agricultural activities generated by
the project would require 29,000 man-years of family and hired labor
annually, at full development. Indirectly, the development of the settlement
area would also create at least 8,000 new permanent jobs in the
administrative, construction, processing and commercial sectors. The
education component would reach some 20,000 students. Productive and social
investment costs per farm and urban beneficiary family, at March 1983 prices,
including physical contingencies, are of the order of US$4,100, to which
on-farm investments of the order of US$6,500 should be added for the 15,000
farm families. These figures compare favorably with worldwide Bank
experience of an average per family settlement cost in rainfed areas of the
order of US$6,500 in 1975 prices, equivalent to about US$11,000 in 1983
prices.5/

8.06      As with previous Northwest projects, the New Settlements project
considers the whole family as a productive unit. Farm requirements provide
work opportunities for women and children, particularly indispensable during
the early pioneering period, when the fam,ilycan rely only on its own
resources to meet a variety of requirements. The extension services and
farmer organization programs would focus on the needs of the whole family,
including the non-agricultural aspects of pioneer life.

                          C.    EnvironmenLtal   Impact

8.07      During project preparation, particular consideration was given to
the improvement of settlement planning techniques, thus contributing
significantly to a reduction of the risks of soil erosion and to the
maintenance of areas of low agricultural potential under forest cover. The
project would introduce selective techniques of tree crop development and
train farmers in continuous annual cropping with fallow periods to avoid
shifting cultivation. Means to maximize the economic use of timber removed
from agricultural areas would be developed, together with techniques for the
rational and sustained use of those lega:Lreserve areas which have forestry
potential. Other environmental concerns of the region (environmental and
ecological research and monitoring, establishment of natural reserves) are
being attended through the Northwest I Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project (Loan 2060-BR). At full development, the
project would result in the clearing, for agricultural purposes, of some
300,000 to 400,000 ha out of a total project area of about 1.1 million ha.

                               D.   Project Risks

8.08      The project is located in a yet totally undeveloped and
environmentally sensitive frontier area, where lower quality soils are more


  5/   c.f. "The Settlement of Agricultural Lands--An Issues Paper"--
       June 1977.
                                    - 34 -



abundant than in the earlier settlement areas of central Rondonia or Mato
Grosso. Furthermore, the administrative requirements of the project would
add to the burden of the already complex coordination, monitoring and
decision-making process of the Northwest Program, on which adequate measures
to detect and minimize negative social and environmental impact would
depend. However, with the ongoing paving of BR-364, the growing need to
channel the pressure of immigration toward the best available areas far
outweighs the potential risks of the project.

Institutional Risks

 8.09     The project involves a large number of federal and local
institutions, many of which are strained in human and financial resources,
although they have up to now responded reasonably well to their various tasks
under previous Northwest projects. The three major institutions (INCRA, IBDF
and SUDHEVEA) would receive technical assistance from the project. Transfers
of funds have suffered delays in other Bank-financed projects, but the
government remains commited to the timely implementation of the Northwest
Program, and project implementation has already started. Some delays could
occur if funds are not released on time, complementary staff is not allocated
or coordination is loose. The commitment of all project agencies to make
staff available as required, improved monitoring and evaluation procedures,
and Bank financing of 50% of overall costs the first two years and 100% of
training and consultant budgets should help reinforce considerably the major
project institutions. The capability of various agencies to train extension,
health and education staff and retain them within the project area thereafter
will have a crucial impact on the long--term results of the project.

Production Risks

 8.10     There is yet some debate among knowledgeable agronomists as to how
rapidly immigrant farmers would adopt a technology approprialte to Amazon
soils with moderate to marginal fertility. The land use planning and
agricultural plot allocation process under the project are, however, much
more sophisticated than in previous public or private settlements in the
region and should help select both adequate soils and more knowledgeable
settlers. Because of weak world market prospects and soils generally less
suitable for coffee, the project has emphasized the promotion of relatively
new crops such as rubber and fruit trees. There is growing evidence in the
region that, with proper management, the risk of SALB can be sufficiently
controled at reasonable costs. There is little experience yet in growing
non-traditional fruit trees. The impact of failure in growing one species is
mitigated, however, by the great variety of trees that can be grown. To
reduce areas initially planted in annual crops or given to grazing because of
limited credit and labor availability, the special studies financed by the
project would help develop new perennial cropping strategies.. The risk of
expansion of areas under extensive use as a result of a gradual concentration
of land ownership would be amplified if (a) the settlers were not provided
with adequate financial and other resources to achieve the best returns from
a land which they would otherwise be tempted to sell; or (b) qualified
farmers were not selected for settlement. Strict selection criteria, close
monitoring of future changes in land ownership and of the reasons for such
changes, adequate credit resources and early planting of perennial crops, all
provided by the project, should considerably reduce this risk. Success in
                                    - 35 -



forestry operationswill depend, in a first phase, on the administration's
capacity to generate additionaldemand for and organize the collectionof
lumber felled in agriculturalareas. The construction  of two sawmills under
the project would be a first step in that direction. In the longer term, the
proper exploitationof agglomeratedforest reserveswill require that area
farmers organize themselves,with the help of trained IBDF staff, in
acccordancewith the management plans to be developed by the project.

EnvironmentalRisks

8.11      Settlementin virgin Amazon regions entails a variety of well
documented environmental risks resulting from a combinationof extreme
climatic conditions,fragile soils and lack of knowledge of the region. In
order to avoid spontaneoussettlementon unsuitable soils, excessive
exploitationof farm and fish resources,clearing of steep slopes or river
banks and impropermanagement of the foretst reserves, a number of measures
were incorporatedinto earlier phases of the Northwest Program, including
ongoing research programs of CNPq on program impact on the climate and
hydrology of the region. This project puts further emphasis on a variety of
precautionarymeasures, such as improved selection of agriculturalareas;
promotion of perennialcrops as far as possible;smaller individualplots
than in earlier settlements;agglomerationof individualreserves into
blocks, reducing the risk of their conversioninto agriculturaluse; some
expansion of salvage logging operations;and strengtheningthe protectionof
natural reserves,water sources and endangeredspecies. Notwithstandingall
these measures, the risk of negative project impact on the environment,
though limited, is real, but the measures incorporatedinto the project and
the overall Northwest Program would provide acceptablestandardsof
environmentalcontrol.

           IX. SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES RECEIVED AND RECOMMENDATION

9.01       Assuranceswere received from the federal governmentthat:

       (a) (i) the rural road network would be constructedaccording to
           layouts and design standards agreed to with the state government
           and with the Bank; (ii) INCRA would enter into agreementswith the
           BEC, defining the latter's constructionand maintenance
           responsibilities for the feeder roads and providing the BEC with
           all the means and resources to carry out the constructionand
           maintenanceoperationsentrusted to them; (iii) the Porto
           Velho-Marmeloportion of BR-364 would be maintainedpermanently
           trafficable;and (iv) the Bank would be authorized to supervise BEC
           works (para 3.13);

       (b) the Machadinho research substationwould be establishedand staffed
           by December 31, 1984 (para 3.15);

       (c) (i) the roles of SUDHEVEA and ASTER-RO in rubber extensionwould be
           agreed upon, in a manner satisfactoryto the Bank, before March 31,
           1984; (ii) extension staff under SUDHEVEAmanagementwould be made
                                -   :36 -




      available and trained accordling to a schedule to be agreed upon at
      negotiations; and (iv) SUDHEVTEAwould recruit its consultants by
      June 30, 1984 (para 3.16);

(d)   IBDF would (i) jointly with I:NCRA,establish regulations for the
      exploitation of agglomerated reserves by June 31, 1L984;(ii)
      complete forest inventories i-orthe respective areas within six
      months after the constructioniof each NUAR and corresponding
      management plans within a yeairafter completion of each inventory;
      (iii) make extension staff available and train themfwithin an
      agreed schedule; (iv) sign aniagreement with the government of
      Rondonia defining their respective forestry extension
      responsibilities; (v) recruit, prior to September 30, 1984,
      consultants satisfactory to the Bank to assist in setting up its
      extension and forest control services; (vi) review with the Bank
      the terms of reference for market studies; and (vii) sign an
      agreement with the Forestry Battalion of Rondonia allowing IBDF to
      retain ownership and supervise the use of environmental protection
      equipment and facilities finaincedby the project (para 3.20);

(e)   (i) a detailed and costed plan of activities under the special
      activities component, satisfaictory to the Bank, and corresponding
      institutional arrangements would be finalized prior-to June 30,
      1984; (ii) new projects to be prepared with project:funding would
      be reviewed with the Bank prior to their preparation; and (iii)
      consultants for special studies would be recruited by June 30, 1985
      (para 3.25);

(f)   it would (i) ensure the timely availability of agricultural credit,
      promote its use and establishia banking infrastructure in the
      project area; and (ii) exchanigeviews with the Bank not later than
      December 15 every year on proposed financing mechantisms,and not
      later than June 30, 1984, on the adequacy of existing lending
      policies for the project crops (para 3.27);

(g)   INCRA would (i) by June 30, 1.984,employ consultant services
      satisfactory to the Bank to aissistin planning, designing and
      supervising construction works; (ii) appoint staff to plan,
      administer and monitor INCRA activities within the project; and
      (iii) keep such positions conitinuouslystaffed throughout the
      project implementation period (para 5.03);

(h)   SUDECO would submit proposed annual operating plans to the Bank by
      January 31 of each year, and final plans and budgets as soon as
      approved (para 5.05);

(i)   SUDECO would provide quarterly monitoring reports to the Bank no
      later than three months after- the end of the corresponding quarter
      (para 5.06);
                                       -   37   -




       (j)   each participating agency would maintain separate accounts to be
             properly audited (para 5.08); and

       'k) INCRA would finalize and publish prior to June 30, 1984 new cost
           recovery procedures allowing the recovery of at least 40% of basic
           settlement costs in real terms (para 7.03).

9.02         Assurances were received from the government of Rondonia that:

       (a)   it would enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with its
             project area municipalities, prior to the initiation of
             construction of project roads, defining maintenance
             responsibilities of the municipalities and DER-RO (para 3.13);

       (b)   the roles of SUDHEVEA and ASTER-RO in rubber extension would be
             agreed upon before March 31, 1984 and the necessary agricultural
             and social extension staff of ASTER-RO and the Secretariat of Labor
             and Social Promotion of Rondonia would be made available to the
             project and trained according to a schedule agreed upon at
             negotiations (para 3.16);

       (c)   it would enter into arrangements with IBDF, satisfactory to the
             Bank, on forestry extension responsibilities, prior to September
             30, 1984 (para 3.20);

       (d)   it would (i) provide timely and adequate funding for routine road
             maintenance and education and health operating costs; and (ii)
             enter into agreements with project municipalities, by June 30,
             1984, defining their operation and maintenance responsibilities for
             roads and education and health facilities (para 3.28); and

       (e)   improved seeds would be provided in a timely   fashion   through   the
             on-going program (para 3.28).

9.03       A condition of disbursement for each settlement site would be that
(a) detailed settlement layouts and costing of roads and NUAR infrastructure
had been satisfactorily completed by INCRA; (b) INCRA had entered into
agreements with the government of Rondonia, defining corresponding work
programs; and (c) INCRA had acquired all property rights to the areas
considered for settlement and legal reserves (para 3.12). Conditions of
disbursement against the warehouse compornentwould be that (a) final designs
for standard warehouses had been prepared and submitted to the Bank for
approval; and (b) that warehouse operation arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, had been defined (para 3.17). A condition of disbursement against the
first sawmill would be that final designs and management plans, satisfactory
 to the Bank, had been prepared by CODARON (para 3.20).

9.04      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$65.2 milllon equivalent. The term would be
for 15 years including a three-year grace period, at the rate prevailing at
the time of loan approval.
                                             -   38    -



                                                                                         ANNEX 1

                                             BRAZIL

                    NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE III

                                   NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT


              List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File

1.   National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA)

     New Settlements Program (September 198)

     1.0   Main Report - 1 volume - December 1981 and September 1982 versions
     1.1   Annex 1 - Civil Works, September 19 M
     1.2   Annex 2 - Program Planning Parameters - December 1981 and
           September 1982
     1.3   Annex 3 - Previous Documents - December 1981 and September 1982
     1.4   Annex 4   -   Socio Economic   Studies      -   2 volumes    - December   1981 and
           September 1982
     1.5   Annex   5 -   Soil Survey   (URUPA)   -    December   1981
     1.6   Annex 6 - Agricultural Development - December 19 & and
           September 1982
     1.7   Annex 7 - Forestry Development - December 1981 and September 1982
     1.8   Annex 8
     1.9 Annex 9 - Detailed Costs and Phasing - December                   1981
     1.10 Annex 10 - Farm Models - Technical Coefficients                  - December   1981

2.   Brazilian Agency for Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA)

     Soil Survey and Land Use Planning for Machadinho I - 1 volume, January 1981

3.   Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West (SUDECO)

     Final Report Consolidation - 1 volume, January 1983

4.   Bank Staff and Consultant Working Papers

     4.0   Technical Annexes and Charts - June 1983
     4.1   Miscellaneous Working Papers
                                                                                                                                                               NRAZIL

                                                                                                                            NRTE          T MlMItN                        II
                                                                                                                                                                  - PHlASIX
                                                                                                                                                  DEVEL1JNT PROGRAM

                                                                                                                                                  NEWSErlLFNTS PRaJEcT

                                                                                                                                               Project Imapleentation         Schedule

                                                                                                                                          3                                    4                                  5                                      6                           Total Project
      YEAR
PROJE3T                                   0                                    1                               2
                                                                                                                                                    _ _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (7 Years)
                                      (1982/83)                          (1983/84)
                                                                                                                                                                 F            P          S                       P           S           F               P            S          F            P             s
SITE                            F                         P    F         S                   P    F      S    P      S      FS

Rural Roads (Km)
                                                                                                                                                                 -             -         -          -             -          -           -               -            -         2 5 a/       74    a/     123   a/
                                          49        20          5             25      103         -            -      -     -             -           -
 URJPA I a/                    20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           56             90
                                                                                                                                   -                       -                   -                    -                        -           -               -            -           7
                                           -         -          7             56       90                      -      -
 URIIPAII                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -          -                   -            -                 74         187            171
                                                                                      171                             -     -             -                      -                       -           -
 M9HAINHO I                     -           -         -        74            187
                                                                                                                                        117         105         56           117    105            56           117        105           -            117         105          280         585           525
 MSHA 08MII                     -          -         -        56              -         -        56          117    105    56
                                                                                                                                                     53         56           116    106              -          118        104           -              -              -       140         292           263
 MAEtlEO0                       -           -         -         -              -         -       28            -      -    56            58
                                                                                                                                                                49           117    105             49          102         92           -            102             92       210         438           394
                                -          -          -        -              -         -         56          -       -    56           117         105
 CAP. SllVIO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      197          736a/ 1,632              1,566
                                                                                                 140         117    105    168          292         263        161           350    316            105          337        301           -            219
            Total              20         49        20        142            268      364

Families Settled b/(No)
                                                                                                                                           -                                   -                                  _                                      -                               1,156
  IRUPAI                                  230                                580                             346
                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                         -                                  918
       II
  URlUPA                                    -                                460                             458
                                                                                                                                           -                                   -                                                                         -                               1,717
 MA3HADINHO I                               -                                860                             857
                                                                                                                                   1,000                                 1,000                                1,000                              1,300                                  5,0C0
 MAC1AJ4DIH0IT                              -                                100                             600
                                                                                                                                     350                                    Boo                                  9D0                               400                                  2,500
 MAHAELO                                    -                                  -                              50
                                                                                                                                     60X                                 1,0Q0                                   920                             1,130                                  3,750
 CAP. SILVIO                                                                                                 100
                                                                                                                                                                         2,411                                2,8?0                              2,830                                 15,041
         Total                            230                                                            2,010

                                                                                                                     MS     N             SC         NE          N            S3C        M          N            9C          FS          N               SC            FS       N           S
Infrastructure      (No)        N          SC       MS          N             SC      MS          N           9C

                                                      _         0.5            5       18         -            -      -     -             -           -          -             -           -         -            -              -       -                                       1 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a         5a/          18    a/
   L6pA I a/                    0.5        _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4             9
                                                                                                                -      -     -             -               -             -               -               -             -             -               _            -
  tRIPA1I                  -    -          -                    -              4        9          -
                                                                                                                      8     -              -          -                         -         -               -                                                               -     1            8            17
 MCHADINHO
         I                      -           -         -         1              8        9         -            -
                                                                                                                                                                  1            5         10             -         5          10              -           4                8     2           24            48
                                --                    -         -                 -     -          1           5     10      -             5         10
 M1lIANIIO   Iu                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          --    1           12            24
                                                                                                   0.5         -       -     0.5           3          5          -             5          10            -         4           9              -           -
 MfAIM                          -     -         -         -                    -        -
                                                                                                                             0.5            5          9         -             5          9             1         4           9              -           4                 9    2           18            36
 CAP. SILVIO                    -           -         -         -              -        -          0.5         -       -
                                                                                                                                          13         24              1        15         29             1        13          28              -           8                17    7           71           152
            Total               0.5         0         0            1.5        17       36          2           5     18      1




 Legend:     F = Feeder roads (Coletora)
             P =Primary access roads (A-impntadora)
             S =Secondary access roads (Petracao)
             N = NEIAR
            SC= Satellite centers cceiprisirg a health post and a single classrocm scheol.
            M = Single classrom mAtigrade achneols (other than tlhose constructed in the satellite                                     centers)

              a/     P)atmed for construction by the BEC, therefore not eligible for Banlk financing,
               /     NuVAeer-of families settled     uzM
                                                    uMertakirg    their first crop (nssa3ed to represent 50%of tle total number of families
                     *-etLIef after coAletoxi of tbe rxydl construction prograa for the correspomdi,ng year).
                                                         BRAZIL

                                 NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM -           PHASE III

                                              NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT

                                                Rural Road Standards
                                                                                                             Secondary
                                     Feeder Roads                      Primary Access Roads                 Access Roads
                                      (Type D)                              (Type E)                         (Type F)

Right   of way (m)                       50                                    50                                50

Clearing width (m)                       20                                    15                                10

TERRAIN a/                  F             H          M            F           H               M

Design speed (km/hr)        60           40         30            50           40             30                  -
Mir-imm- radius   (m)      110
                            F                       30            70           45             30                  -
Maximum slope (%)            6            8         10             8           10             12                  -
Roadway b/                   6            6          6             4   c/      4      c/       4      c/          4
Graveling (m)                6            6          6             4              4               4               -
Gravel layer
   thickness (cm)           15           15         15            10           10             10                  -


BRIDGES d/                         Wood structure                      Wood structure and                  Log bridges only
                                     (one lane)                           log bridges                         (one lane)
                                                                           (one lane)


al   F = flat; H = hilly; M = mountainous
6/   Including potential shoulders, excluding ditches, which are about 1 m wide in cut section.                               H
~/   4 m in case of embankments lower than 0.80 m and 5 m in case of embankments higher than 0.80m.
_    Would be designed to support one trailer loaded with a bulldozer (Type D8), i.e. about 45 tons,
     with a legal axle load of about 10 tons.
                                                     - 41 -                                        Table    3

                                                  BRAZIL
                                       REGION DEVELOPMENT
                               NORTHWEST                 PROGRAM - PHASE III
                                          NEW SETTLEMENTSPROJECT

                                      Cost Phasing of Project Activities
                                                   (US$'000)



Activity                       Year     1        2            3        4        5         6                Total


Investments

Mapping, surveying, demarcation       2,613    1,417     1,759       1)717    1,170           78           8,754
    and titling
Rural roads                           4,342    1,980     4,946       5,933    5,696     3,709          26,606
NUAR and satellite infrastr.          1,401    2,004     1,2771      1,172    1,0&4       134           7,066
Agricultural research                   300      246          -        -          23       28             597
Technical Assistance to farmers         546      343          383      322      513       340           2,447
Drying and storage                       -       493          493      987      493       987           3,453
Input supply                            345      158          217       79      217        -            1,016
Forestry development                  1,736      366          188      230      276       226           3,022
Sawmills                              1,324      -            -      1,323      -          -            2,647
 Social organization                     42        30           27      29        62       49             239
Education                               858      523          546      624      590       2 79          3,420
 Health                                 320      209           717   1,061       725      938           3,970
 Project and Program coordination       262        59         263       53      106        -              743
 Special activities                     572       728          392      -       -             -         1,692

Subtotal Baseline Costs               14,661   8,556     11,202      13,530   10,955    6,768          65,672
Physical contingencies                 1,605     853      1,311       1,650    1,380      862           7,661
Price contingencies                      651   1,133      2,523       4,243    4,396    3,339          16,285

  Subtotal Investments                16,917   10,542    15,036      19,423   16,731    10,969             8,618

On-farm Investments

           Rubber a/                       -   2,554      3,591      3,963    5,638      6,550         22,296
           Fruit trees a/              1,503   3,132      4,447      4,775    5,048      5,644         24,549

Subtotal Baseline Costs                1,503    5,686     8,038      8,738    10,686    12,194         46,845
Price contingencies                       60      685     1,620      2,442    3,I   R    5,337         1I,Q52

Subtotal On-farm Investments           1,563    6,371     9,658      11,180   14,494    17,531         60,797

Recurrent Costs

Mechanized road maintenance                -     118        246         467      600     1,100             2,531
Agricultural research                    195     251        252         252      252       252             1,454
Technical assistance to farmers          589     955      1,268       1,652    2,033     2,354             8,851
Forestry development                     380     494        431         521      602       633             3,061
Social organization                       70     134        175         247      304       357             1,287
Project and Program coordination         897     922      1,079       1,120    1,102       683             5,388

 Subtotal Baseline Costs               2,131    2,874     3,451       4,259    4,893     5,379         22,987
 Physical contingencies                  114      174       209         283      335       434          1,549
 Price contingencies                      90      368       738       1,270    1,861     2,545          6,872

   Subtotal Recurrent Costs            2,335    3,416     4,398       5,812    7,0E      8,358             31,408

 Total Project                        20,815   20,329    29,092      36,415   38,314    36,858        181,823




 a/   After deducting capital repayment during the period.
                                                                                 _ 42_
                                                                                                                                                   Table 4
                                                                                BRAZML

                                                    NORflM        YMItN lVlNMT               PF1GM - PHASEIII

                                                                   NEWSE]LENTS PRAH)T

                                                          Cost of Activities      l'aralel      to the Project
                                                                               (ml; '000)



                    Project   Year                                    1               2             3             4            5              6        Total
                                                                 (1983/1984)




Rural Roads and NUARInfrastructure              (by BE)

     Rural roads                                                      5,682 a/ 3,167               3,801         3,643        2,376            -     18,668
     NUAR
        ard satellite          infrastructure                           671 a/      -                   -             -            -           -         671
     Base cost                                                        6,353    3,167               3,801         3,643        2,376            -     19,339
     Physical contingencies                                              736      317                 380           364          238           -      2,035
     Price contingencies                                                 283      420                 843        1,120           930           -      3,597

            Total                                                     7,372         3,904          5,024         5,127        3,544            -    24,971

Investment Credit Through Coamercial Lines

     Coffee                                                             458            948         1,345         1,380        1,381      1,493       7,005
     Livestock and other                                              1,761         2,511          3,557         3,464        2,789      1,767      15,849
     Base cost                                                        2,219         3,459          4,902         4,844        4,170      3,260      22,854
     Price contingencies                                                 88            417            988        1,354        1,486      1,426       5,759

            Total                                                     2,307         3,876          5,890         6,198        5,656      4,686      28,613

Seasonal Credit        Fund b/

     Base cost                                                          484            566              624           943     1,023      1,125        4,765
     Price contingencies                                                 19             68              126           263        364        492       1,332

            Total                                                       503            634              750      1,206        1,387      1,617        6,097

Road Maintenance

     Mechanized and routine nmintenace             (by FM)                5             32               99        217          550          469      1,372
     Routine maintenance c/                                               -             95              124        1%           283          384      1,082
     Base cost                                                            5            127              223        413          833          853      2,454
     Physical contingencies                                               1             26               45         82          166          171         491
     Price contingencies                                                  -             18               54        139          357          448      1,016


            Total                                                         6            171              322        634        1,356      1,472        3,961

Recurrent    Health Costs

     Personel                                                             68           104              142        625          668      1,123        2,730
     Vehicles and equipment 0 arxd M                                      14            24               34         44           49         55           220
     Miscellaneous                                                       217           302              460        686          842        978        3,485

            Subtotal                                                     299           430              636      1,355        1,559      2,156        6,435

     Physical contingencies                                               15              22             32            68           78       107         322
     Price contirgencies                                                  13              54            135           398          583       990      2,173

            Total                                                        327           506              803      1,824        2,220      3,253        8,930

Recurrent    Education Costs         d/

     Base cost                                                            99              154           319           450          586       700      2,308
     Physical contingencies                                                5                8            16            22           29        35         115
     Price contingencies                                                   4               20            67           132          219       322         764

            Total                                                        108              182           402           604          834   1,057        3,187



a!   including costs incurred prior to effectiveness.
b/   assuning that 50% of new settlers  will apply for seasonal credit.
c/   by EERRD and MuLicipalities.
d/   teacher salaries only, as other recurrent costs wuld be sTt ttrough                        a Bank-financed         education program.
                                                                - 43 -                                              ia.)e    J




                                                           FEINAN   pIAN a/
                                                             (us$miffin


Activity                                                                                          Private
                      Source of Funds                   Federal.                        State      Banks         Bark   Total
                                                NWProgram     Other            Total


Production     Infrastruture

Mapping, survey, danarcation
 and titling                                           7.4           -           7.4       -            -    4.0            11.4
Rural roads                                           25.2           -          25.2       2.6          -   14.6            42.4
NU4AR and satellite    infrastructure                  6.0           -           6.0       -            -    3.2             9.2
Agricultural    research                               1.7           -           1.7       -            -    0.9             2.6
Techdcal assistance to farmers                         5.9           4.1b/      10.0       _            -    5.3            15.3
Drying ail storage                                     3.2           -           3.2       -            -    1.8             5.0
Input                                                  0.9           -           0.9       -            -    0.4             1.3
Forestry     developmnt                                5.0           -           5.0       -            -    2.8             7.8
Sawdis                                                 2.2           -           2.2       -            -    1.2             3.4

Social     Infrastructure

Social organization                                    1.4           -           1.4       -            -    0.7            2.1
Education                                              3,0           -           3.0       -            -    1.5            4e5
Health                                                 3.6           -           3.6       -            -   2.0             5.6

Project and Program Coordinaticn                       5.4           -           5.4       -            -    3.1             &5
Sp~ecialActiviti~es                                    -             -           -         -            -    1.9             1.9
Orr-fam Im-estnn                                      -             39.2        39.2       -            -   21.6            60.8

      Total Project         Cost                      O).9          43.3       114.2       2.6          -   65.0        1L.8

Front-ed       fe   on loan                            -             -           -         -            -    0.2            0.2

      Total P-foject FIaciiE                          7).9          43.3       114.2       2.6          -   65.2        1 &.0

Parallel     Activities:

Roads and NLARsbuilt by BBC                           25.0           -          25.0       -        -        -              25.0
Private banks irwestment credit                        -             -           -         -       2&6       -              28.6
Seasonal credit fix                                    -              6.1         6.1      -            -   -                6.1
Roadmaintenanc                                         2.2           -           2.2       1.7          -   -                3.9
Health operations                                      -             -           -         &9 C/        -   -                8.9
Education (teachers)  d/                               -             -           -         3.2       -      -               3.2
    Total Parallel Activities                         27.2               6.1    33.3      13. 8    28.6                     7. 7

      Total Financirg                                 981           49.4       147.5      16.4     2&6      65.2        257.7




a/       Irluding    pysical       and price   contirgencies
         PDBOR
         PE      furing  of SUlEVEA ectension services
 !i      with furis passed on fran the Federal Rural Social Security Systen (IN4PS)
tI       other recurresnt aeucation costs wouKd be covered through a Bank-financed aducation project
                                         -   44 -                      Table 6


                                         BRAZIL

                 NORTHWESTREGION DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM-PHASE III

                                NEW SETTLEMENTS PROJECT

                    Estimated     Schedule  of Bank Disbursements 1/
                                      (US$ million)


Calendar       Quarter            Disbursed            Cumulative      Balance of
  Year         Ending           During Quarter      Amount Disbursed      Loan

  1983         Sept. 30               0.0                  0.0             65.2
               Dec.  31               4.2                  4.2             61.0

  1984         March   31             3.0                  7.2             58.0
               June    30             3.0                 10.2             55.0
               Sept.   30             3.0                 13.2             52.0
               Dec.    31             3.0                 16.2             49.0

  1985         March   31             3.0                 19.2             46.0
               June    30             2.5                 21.7             43.5
               Sept.   30             2.5                 24.2             41.0
               Dec.    31             2.5                 26.7             38.5

  1986         March   31             2.5                 29.2             36.0
               June    30             2.5                 31.7             33.5
               Sept.   30             2.5                 34.2             31.0
               Dec.    31             2.5                 36.7             28.5

  1987         March   31             2.5                 39.2             26.0
               June    30             3.0                 42.2             23.0
               Sept.   30             3.0                 45.2             20.0
               Dec.    31             3.0                 48.2             17.0

     1988      March   31             3.0                 51.2             14.0
               June    30             2.5                 53.7             11.5
               Sept.   30             2.5                 56.2              9.0
               Dec.    31             2.0                 58.2              7.0

  1989         March   31             2.0                 60.2              5.0
               June    30             2.0                 62.2              3.0
               Sept.   30             2.0                 64.2              1.0
               Dec.    31             1.0                 65.2              0.0



 /      Including Special Account deposit and Front End Fee.
                                                                     - 45 -                                              Table 7

                                                                     BRAZIL

                                                NORTHWEST
                                                        REGION DEVELOPMENT
                                                                         PROGRAM PHASE III

                                                            NEW SETTLEMENTSPROJECT

                                                 List   of Executing and Collaborating Agencies




                                                                        Executing Agencies               Main Collaborating Agencies
                                                                   Federal                                 Federal
                          ACTIVITIES                                Level          State Level              Level       State Level

Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation                     SUDECO            SEPLAN-RO              SEPLAN-PR

Project    Activities

     Land Use Planning, Demarcation, Titling                        INCRA             INCRA Reg.          RADAM
                                                                                      Office              EMBRAPA/
                                                                                                          CETEC
     Rural Roads
         Construction                                               INCRA             INCRA Reg.                  -        BEC
                                                                                      Office

           Mechanized Maintenance                                      -              DER-RO                      -         BEC a/

     NUAR and Satellite Infrastructure
        Construction b/                                             INCRA             INCRA Reg.
                                                                                      Office

      Adaptive Agricultural Research                                   -              UEPAE-RO            EMBRAPA          ASTER-RO

      Technical      Assistance    to Farmers                          -              ASTER-RO            EMBRATER         UEPAE-RO
                                                                                      SUDHEVEA
                                                                                      Reg. Office

      Crop Drying and Storage
          Construction                                                 -               CODARON
          Operation                                                                to be determined

      Input Supply                                                     -              CODARON                     -        Private
                                                                                                                           Enterprises
      Forestry Development:
          Inventories, Management Plans                                               IBDF Reg. Off.              -        ASTER-RO
          Forestry Extension and Control                            IBDF              State Forestry Inst.                 Forestry Battalion
                                                                                                                           IBDF Reg. Office
           Sawmill Construction and Operation                                         CODARON                     -

      Social Organization                                              -              SETRAPS-RO                           ASTER-RO


      Special     Activities                                        SUDECO            SEPLAN-MT/GPC       MINAGRI
                                                                                      SEPLAN-RO           EMBRAPA, CNPq              -
                                                                                                          CEPLAC,SUDHEVEA

      Project and Program Coordination                              SUDECO,           SEPLAN-RO              INCRA, IBDF   State Agencies
                                                                                                             SUDHEVEA

      Agricultural Credit (Rubber, Fruit Trees)                     Central Bank      BB/BASA and other   SUDHEVEA         ASTER-RO
                                                                                      participating Banks
Parallel Activities

      Improved Seed Supply                                             -              UEPAE-RO,              MINAGRI       Private
                                                                                      CODARON                              farmers
                                                                                      ASTER-RO

      Agricultural       Credit   (other)                              -              BB,                    BB            ASTER-RO
                                                                                      Private    Banks

      Education (operation and maintenance)                            -              SEC-RO                      -        Municipalities

      Health (operation and maintenance)                               -              SES-Ro                      -        Municipalities

      Routine Road Maintenance                                         -              DER-RO                      -        Municipalities

      Amerindian Protection                                         FUNAI             FUNAI Reg.                  -              -
                                                                                      Office



a/    For feeder road maintenance only, during the time of construction of the road network in each settlement site.
'/    Excluding, drying and storage, input supply and sawmilling facilities.
                                                             - 46 -                                     Table   8

                                                             BRAZIL

                                                            PROGRAM
                                  NORTHWESTREGIOtNDEVELOPMENT      - PHASE III

                                                  NEW SETTLEMENTSPROJECT

                            Summary of Land Use and Income of Illustrative Farm Models


                                                    -----            At Full Development (year 2000)------------------
                             Pre-Project      Annual Crops              Annual Crops            Annual Crops and
                              Situation        and Coffee                and Rubber          Fruit Trees Consortium f/


Land Use (ha)

     Farm area                     -               25 - 40                 25 - 40                  25 - 40
     Annual crops                  -                 3.0                     2.0                      3.0
     Perennnial crop                                 3.0                     3.0                      3.0
     Area cropped a/               -                 6.0                     5.0                      6.0
     Improved pasture              -                 5.0                     4.0                      4.0
     Fallow or regrowth            -                 9.0                    12.0                      7.5
     Total area cleared            -                20.0                    21.00                     17.5
     Forest                        -                5 - 20                  4 - 19                  7.5 - 22.5

Labor Use (mandays/year)

     Total requirements            -                 506                    578                      526
     Family labor                330 b/              494                    561                      504
     Hired labor                   -                  12                     17                       22
     Per ha requirements           -                  84                    116                       88

Gross Farm Income c/ (US$) d|

     Per family                 1,500              5,245                   6,155                    6.441 g/
     Per capita e/                250                874                   1,026                    1,073
     Per family manday            4.5               10.5                    10.6                     12.2
     Cash income                  909              4,654                   5,564                    5,850
     On-farm consumption          591                591                     591                      591

Financial Rate of Return to Investment (7)   h/                       36                  15                         35



a/ Includes only annual and perennial crops
   As field workers on other farms.
c/ Net family income after production losses and cash costs plus on-farm consumption.
t/ US$1 = Cr$ 220 (October 1982)
e/ An average family is expected to have six members, four of whom contribute to the labor
   requirements, equivalent to 2.2 male workers (Socio-Economic Survey, 1981).
f/ Guarana/Brazil nut taken as an example.
1/ Gross farm income is higher for this model because of high market price for guarana.
r/ Before financing.
                                                        BRAZIL

                                   NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE III

                                            NORTHWEST SETTLEMENTS PROJECT

                                     Incremental Production at Full Development a/
                                                                                                     Farmgate
                                            Area          Yield              Production               Value
                                         ('000 ha)      (Tons/ha)            ('000 tons)           (US$ million)


Rice (paddy)                               16.5            1.4                   23.8                   3.5
Corn                                        7.5            1.2                    9.1                   0.9
Beans                                      15.0            0.5                    7.5                   3.0
Cassava (flour)                            15.0 b/         4.2                   31.6                   8.6
Coffee                                                                                                             -


  (dried cherries)                         11.3            1.65                  18.6                  14.4
Guarana
  (dried cherries)                          5.3            0.6                    3.2                   7.3
Brazil nut                                                 0.6                    3.2                   1.8
Other fruit trees                          10.5            var.                  var.                  14.6
Rubber (drc)                               18.0            1.0                   18.0                  32.7
Improved pasture                           63.9             -                      -                     _
Total Area Cropped c/                     151.2                                    -                     -
Beef and pork                                -                                   12.7                  23.9
Milk                                                   500 1/cow/yr.              9.7 (106 1)           2.3
Chickens and eggs                            -                                                          3.8
                                                                                                        11.8 d/
         Total                                                                                        116


e/  Production of all goods except rubber is expected to reach full development around 1997; rubber would
    reach maximum production in 2005.
b/ Half of the planted area harvested (14-18 month cycle).
-/  Includes pasture, adjusted for second crop on same land; represents physical area under cultivation,
d7/ Of which US$13.4 million on-farm consumption (part of rice, casava, beans, eggs, chicken, pork meat and milk
    prodtuctionand totality of corn production) and US$103.4 million marketed.
                                                     - 413-                                 Table   10
                                                     BRAZIL

                                                          PROGRAM
                               NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT     - PHASE III

                                            NEW SETTLEMENTSPROJECT

                                          Output/Input Price Assumptions
                                              (in March 198 Cr) d

                                Unit                 FINANCIAL PRICES                       ECONOMICPRICES a/

                                            1982               1990         1995     1982            1990       1995

OUTPUTS

Rice (paddy)                    kg              42               42            42       70             100         97
Corn                            kg              29               29            29       29              29         29
Beans                           kg             117              117           117      117             117        117
Cassava (flour)                 kg              80               80            80       80              80         80
Coffee (dried cherries)         kg             213              186           226      469             409        495
Guarana (dried cherries)        kg             665              665           665    1,200           1,200      1,200
Brazil nut                      kg             165              165           165      260             260        260
Pupunha                         kg              64               64            64       64              64         64
Avocado                         kg              80               80            80       80              80         80
Rubber (drc) b/                 kj             730              665           530      365             570        595
Timber                          m            3,300            3,300         3,300    3,300           3,300      3,300
Chicken                         unit           530              530           530      530             530        530
Egg                             unit            16               16            16       16              16         16
Pork (live)                     kg             530              530           530      780             865        920
Beef (live)                     kg             530              530           530      780             865        920
Milk                            1               80               80            80       80              80         80

INPUTS

1. Improved Seeds/PlantingMaterial

Rice                            kg             330              330           330      330             330       330
Corn                            kg             400              400           400      400             400       400
Beans                           kg             530              530           530      530             530       530
Cassava                         cutting          6                6             6        6               6         6
Coffee                          plant           20               20            20       20              20        20
Rubber                          plant          175              175           175      175             175       175
Guarana                         plant          290              290           290      290             290       290
Brazil nut                      plant          290              290           290      290             290       290
Pueraria                        kg           1,300            1,300         1,300    1,300           1,300     1,300

2.   Pesticides/Fungicides

Rice, corn, beans, cassava,
  coffee, guarana, Brazil
  nut, and fruit trees          kg or 1      5,200             5,200        5,200    5,200           5,200      5,200
Rubber                          kg or 1     10,400            10,400       10,400   10,400          10,400     10,400
3. Fertilizers C/

Coffee                          kg             135               135          135       95               130      130
Rubber, fruit trees, cassava    kg             160               160          160      120               155      155
Beans, rice, corn               kg             200               200          200      155               180      180

4.   Labor                      manday       1,300            1,000        1,000    -1,300           1,000      1,000


a/   In deriving the economic prices of internationallytraded goods, a shadow exchange rate of 20% above the official
     rate was used.
b/   Assuming a gradual reduction of import taxes on imported rubber (from Cr$ 600/kg in 1982 to about
     CrS 200/kg in 1995 in March 1983 values).
c/   Average prices.
Z/   US$l = Cr$ 381
                                                                                            BRAZIL NORTHWEST REGION DEV. PROGRAM PHASE III
                                                                                                                 NEW SETTLEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                            COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
                                                                                                                (US$ '006)


                                                 1
                                                 eer     2           3     4      5      6      7      8                   9         10       11        12     13      14        15     It      I7             13         19          20
 1)I)
    t5V~t~fltCoat                              7
                                             18072.0   i
                                                     11.i
                                                       9                     i
                                                                  3651 1629i0.  2448.0 i60i0 733.0 10679                 1591.0    1635.0   1824.0    1917.9 189980  1i89.8     BP.i  1999Q9      ,          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 78       1950
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           98       139.
 2) Opnrattflg    C.lota                     2000.    2?b3.0      4115.0 5612.8 6779.0 7440.0 9026.0 8713.0              8762.0    8762.0   8553.0    E553.D0 553.80 8'53.8    8553.9 8553.0 t:Ji.0          bS.        5:53.G      6553.0
 3) On-f.rm.Invwstment                         695.9     1304.8 9966.90 2732.0      3781.0 4815.8 3302.8 2830.8 1989.8 1149.9        .0     8.0                  .        .8a
                                                                                                                                                                         D.      9.9     9.9      6.9             It9       Ole       8.I9
 4) o.-fa,. Op.
            n C.st                             927.
                                                  0      3214.
                                                             0 5351     7316.0      97770 12461.0 13E72,0 14076.0 147310 15404.0 16151.0 16827.              17443.   17468,8 17154.9 16236.9016'12-.        I962n,9 1645, S        0714,0
 5) lAbor co.ts                               0498.0     4294.0 7092.0 10900.0 15380.0 11096.0 12766.0 13766.0 14620.0 15094.0 15452,0 15726.0 15930.0 16052.0 16174.0 16163.G: 1b03Q.0 15919.0 15752.0                            1559b.f
 6) On-f.rt Rev-n.e.                                     2634.8 7431,0 14674.0 24874.0 38950.0 54783.0O7215B.0 98397.0 102732,0114069.0123038.0 129398.0133076.0 1349339.Q
 7) timhr Val.e
 8) Urb.n Benefits
                                               7668
                                                 0A
                                                           9,    659.5         800
                                                                        982.0 1283.8 1641.S0        0 2876,0 2377.0
                                                                                                1878.4                   2611. 0 28779
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                         136141.0i U;G'Q0 136135.813496c.1: 133438.8
                                                                                                                                         3148.0 3418.0 3418.0 34198. 34188         3419.8 3418.8 3A18,9 3418.e
                                                           73.8 341.08 03.0 1875.0 3309.0 5034.0 6825.0 8468.0 9728.9 18570.811845.8 11239.911281.8 11299.1112E63. 112I.90 1128.9 19298.9 11289.8
 9) Total rU.nefits                            067.0     3196.0 8422.0 16469.0 20032.0 43908.0 61787.0 8059.0           99242,0 115063.S127518.0137231,0 144055.0147774.8 14952E.0150839.015159.9
                                                                                                                                                                                               0 15088.8014f/666
                                                                                                                                                                                                               9                   14813b.0
10) Revenue.
        arn         I year                       0.9     867.0    3186.0   8422.0 16469.8 29032.0 43908.0 61787.0 81059.0 89242,0 115063.0 127518.8137231.914055.0 14'7774.Q     159839,9 l1548A.I 15933.0 149666.0
                                                                                                                                                                           1455,29.8
11) Revenues
           log 2 years                           9.I       0.0    867.0    3186.0   8422.   16469.0 28932.8 43908,0 61787.0 81059.8 99242.S 115063,0127510.0137231.0 144055.9147774.0 149'2T,8 159879,0 15158.9, 159833.8
12) On-far. Adj..ted        Revenue            881.0     3907.0 8546.0 16875.0 28695.9 42464.0 59716.0 78652.D 96353.0 111979.0 119772.0129189.01358.b.0 139730.0141S'72, 1429MN4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 143`45,0 142942.014171S.D 14011080
1I) Total Conts         ,                    23974.0 22663.0 32175.0 42751.0 49085.0 41118,0 39699,0 40452.0 41523.8 42G35,0 41980,Q 43023.0 43815.0 43962,0 4377Q.0 43546,Q 431Q7.9 429N.6,0 426953,                               42312.0
14) BaseEni.ince(13)-(C)                    -23187.0 -l1477,0 -23753.8 -26282.0 -20053.0    2790.0 22088.0 40607.0 57719.0 73028.0 85538.094208.0 100248.0103812.0 1i575S9.0107293.8             !0:4.1.S   17947,9 W97989.9105824.Q
   Balance1: Fcl. Urb. Sen.                 -23197.0 -1Q571,Q-24094.Q-27175.0 -21929.8      -519.0    16954.0 33782.0 49251.0 63398.0 74968.0 83163.0 89001,9 92532.0 944.8A           96813.G               96$5,1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             91121,0    '47578.Q    945A4.3
   Balaice   2: Corat+ 201                  -279018, -24099.6 -30188.0 -34832.2 -29670.0 -5433.6 14148.2 32516.6 49414.4 64621.9 77142.0 85603.4 91477.0 95019.6 97004,L 9e853.8 9V1.1,699249.8 9)47-S,4                            97361.6
   Blance 3: cnefits - 201                  -23289.4 -20114.2 -25437.4 -29575.8 -25659.4 -5991.6      9730.6 24395.2 37870.6 50015.4 60834.4 66761,871429., 74257.2 75852.4 7712-.2 78Gb1,4 776909.4 77074,8                        76196.8
   Blance 4: B.enefit. 1i% I yr.            -23974.0 29790.S-28989.0 -34329,0 -31616.0 -13086.0       4209,8 21335.0 39536.0 57287,0 73083.0 84495,0 .93416.9 1G0093.014T94.9 19582.0 729                   1IQ612.Gt0S175.0 187354.0
   blance    5: Benefit. lg     2 yr..      -28974.0    2b 3.0 -31308,0 -39565.0 -39663.0 -24649,8 -11667.0     3456.9 20264,8 39824.857262.0        720408. B3703.9 93269,0 199785.9S184729.9 1961.        17S53.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I       9,3949,9 10895210
   "lance    6: cost. + 20Y and             -23!07,                                        2298.8 40607.0 57719.0 73029.0 85538. 942119.9
                                                  -19477,9 -23753.8 -26282.0 -20053.0 2790.0                                           1002480, 1G38!2,0 180>5.9 197293.0 1 984?,997.47. 1010H.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Q                                     995824.4
                Benefits la& I yr.
   Selz:nc   7.                  -itching   -28768.0   -26328.6 -35424,0 -42879.2 -41233.0 -213S9.6   -3730.8   13244.6 31231.4   49089.964687.0     75870.4 B4653,0 99300.6 95'5?.Q   S72t.Q     95'92.6   1iOO14.8 99.43.4        98891.s
    I lanc. 8Analysis                       -2"136.6 -2517?9. -31402.2 -35811.1 -29786.1 -5362.1      1'599,3   35454,4 53731.3 79193.4 79165.9      97966.6 94887.6 47739,5 1998?919,91
                                                                                                                                                                                     9594,3      1:28,90    192259.3 1G84199,7 1O8324.5
                                                                                                    - 50 -
                                                                                   BRAZIL                                                                        Chart 1
                                                                     NORTHWEST
                                                                           REGION
                                                                                DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                          PROGRAM
                                                                                                - PHASE
                                                                                                      III
                                                                             NEWSETTLEMENTS
                                                                                       PROJECT
                                                                       Rural Road Construction - implmentitflon Chart

                                                                                     1        2                    3                 4                5                   6
                      Project Fisrcal
                                    Year           1982/83                     19S3/84    1984/85              1985/86          1986/87          1987/88             1988/89


   URUPAI
       I-                  Rafny                        I                                                                      T_
        1 Mlcroplanning                     (Available)

    2 Survey Bidding                        (Available)

    3 Survey Implementatirn                 (Executed)

    4 Conalrutlon     by BEC (F+FP,S)              89                  13




  URUJPA
      If
    I Microplanning                         (Available)

   2 Survey Biding

   3 Survey Implementatlon

   4 Construction by BEC (F)                                               7

   S Access Road Bidding (P+S)

   6. Road Consiruction (FPS)                                                  146


  MACHADINHO I

   1 Micropanning                           (Available)

   2 Survey Bidding                            I
   3 Survey
          Implemenloio                      1 m SeMVce
                                           ROaKExecuted               74
   4 ConstructionbyBEC(F)                               l ive

   S. Access Road Bidding (P+S)

   6. Road Construction (P+S)                                                  222


  MACHAD3INHO
           I1
   1 Microplanning

   2 Survey Bidding

   3 Survey Implementation
   4 Construction by BEC(F)                                                     56                                             56               56

   S. AccessRoadBldding(P+S)
   6. Road Construction (P+S)                                                                                222         222              222              222


  MARMELO

   1 Micropianning                                               I_

   2 Survey
          Bidding
   3 Survey Implementation

   4 Construction by BEC (F)                                                             28                  56                56

   5. AccessRoad Bidding (P+S)
   6 Road Constuction       (P+S)                                                                            ill               222              222


  CAPITAO
        SILVIO
   1 Microplonning                                              ir
   2 Survey
          Bidding
   3 Survey Implementation
                                                                                         56         56                         49               49
   4 Construction by      sEC(F)
   S.    AccessRoadBidding(P+S)
   6. Road Construction (P+S)                                                                                222               222              194                 194




F = Feeder Roods
P = Principol Access Roads
S = Secondory Access Roads                                                                                                                                        Word Bank-24815
                                                                         snmom-    ~S~4E4'Cr-                  - - -   - -          --   -   -   -   -   -T        I   n




                 -~~~~~~~~~             [




  {
______   X
         W   "            <                                          ~                                |                      -Nd1                                      F-l
                                                                                                                                                                       !



                                                              ,!,-----------                              r --------                                                       S-1
                        $030100'03000
                            00001303    ANIN 003000CD03b




                                                           pS40   4IIDUIUSW        UD   llO#UDL0\0    D-UpUOa
                                                                         133'Ob SiN3W1M MRN
                                                    III 3SfHd-       W         d lNU3S01         N013iS3NO                                                    Oa
    I




I
                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 17069
                                                66'                              64'                              62'                                                                     APRIL 1983

8'      0                         50                      100 Ki lo meters                                                                                                                        8'
                                                                                                                                              BRAZIL
        0                                  40
                          20                             60 Miles
                                                                                           \..                        NORT HWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT
           Th1s map has been prepared by                                                    ~o \.-.                             PHASE m
                                                                                                 ~<>o~\
                                                              I
           The World Bank 's staff excluswely
           for the conven1ence of the
           readers and ts exclusiVely for the                                                                              RONDONI A NEW SETTLEME NT AREA
           111ternaf use of The World Bank
           and the International Finance                                                              "o~
           Corporation. The denominations
                                                                                                          :                J'-.                        New Selllement Areas
           used and the boundanes shown
           on this map do not mply, on the                                   0
           part of The World Bank and the
           lnternatsonal F10ance Corporat100,
                                                                                                              L.. __ _j          " . -    &~      Ne w Settlemen t Areas (in development)
           any Jt.Jdgment on the legal status                                                                                                          Pro tect Feeder Roads (in develo pme nt)




                                                                                                                                               -
           of any temtory or any
           endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                Rural Service Centers :
           such boundaries
                                                                                                                                                           Planned in Existing Settlements

                                                                                                                                                          Planned in Project Area
                                                                                                                                                0      Planned Satellite Centers

                                                                                                                                              C::=:J   Ex isting Settlement Areas
                                                                                                                                              WJ       Spontaneous Settlement Areas
                                                                                                                                                       Natural Reserves and National Forest
                                                                                                                                                       Amer in dian Reservations

                                                                                                                                                       BR- 36 4 (section being paved)



                                                                                                                                              -
10'                                                                                                                                                    Other Ma in Road s                         10'

                                                                                 L H 0                                                                 lsohyet s
                                                                                                                                                       R1vers

                                                                                                                                                0      Main Exis ting Towns
                                                                                                                                                       Municipal Boundar ies
                                                                                                                                                       State Boundar ies
                                                                                                                                                       Internati onal Boundaries




                                                0



                                                                    (
12'                                                                                                                                                                                               12'
                                                66'

                      - "">                    I           At/anile
       .-s...__..\            L --  ~
       \                                            ""
      .J
./                    /    '-->   B R A Z I L
\.. '\_._, ~ RON~N!A

                      ~<\                                Brasilia                                                         V I L H E

                                                                                       I
                                   L~,                                                                                                                                           MATO
                                           )                                                                            R1o Guopore
                                                                                                                                                                            GROSSO
                                       (
                                                                                                                62'                                                                 60'
