OFFICUAAN. LOAN NUMBER 2353 BR
Project Agreement
(Northwest Region Development Program -
Third Phase: New Settlements Project)
between
STATE OF RONDONIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        3   , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2353 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     4AL44A4e       <    , 1983, between the
STATE OF RONDONIA (hereinafter called the State) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-five million two hundred thousand dollars ($65,200,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the State agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (B) the State warrants and represents that it is
authorized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement con-
tained under the laws of the Borrower;
WHEREAS (C) the State shall carry out or cause to be carried
out parts of the Project; and
WHEREAS (D) the State, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State covenants and warrants that the
Project is of paramount importance to its development and that it


﻿- 2 -
shall fully support the Project by cooperating with the Borrower
in the execution of the Project.
(b)   The State shall carry out or cause each Executing
Entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the acc.int or
benefit of, the State to carry out the Part or Parts of the
Project for which each is responsible in accordance with Sched-
ule 5 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agricul-
tural and environmental practices.
Section 2.02. The State shall provide to each Executing
Entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of, the State, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services, and other resources required on its part for the carry-
ing out of the Part or Parts of the Project for which each such
Executing Entity is responsible in accordance with Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. The State shall enter into arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank with each Executing Entity as necessary or
appropriate to ensure the efficient and timely carrying out of
the Part or Parts of Project for which each such Executing Entity
is responsible in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The State shall: (a) for purposes of Part E of
the Project, cause ASTER-RO to enter into the arrangements with
SUDHEVEA referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement; and (b) for purposes of Parts E and I (3) of the
Project, cause ASTER-RO and SETRAPS-RO to make available in a
timely manner agricultural extension and social organization
staff in adequate numbers in accordance with the timetable set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement and provide in a timely
manner the necessary training for such staff.
Section 2.05. The State shall, for purposes of Part H (8) of
the Project, enter into the arrangements with IBDF referred to in
paragraph 8 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. The State shall, for the purposes of Part K
(4) of the Project:
(a) maintain the Project Coordination Unit with qualified
staff in adequate numbets and, without limitation or restriction


﻿-3-
upon the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, provide
such Project Coordination Unit, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
coordination of the Project at the State level; and
(b)  cause the Project Coordination Unit to coordinate with
the Program Coordination Unit with respect to the execution of
activities under the First Phase Projects and the Second Phase
Projects of POLONOROESTE which affect or may affect        Project
execution, such activities to include, inter alia, protection of
the indigenous Amerindian population, land tenure regularization,
environmental protection and ecological research and controlling
the environmental impact of the civil works on the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho Highway.
Section 2.07. The State shall take, or cause to be taken,
all measures necessary for the acquisition of such land and
rights in respect of land, and as shall be required for the
construction and operation of facilities provided by the State
under the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) The State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)    The State shall promptly inform     the Bank   of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, the performance by the State of its obligations under
this Agreement or the performance by any Executing Entity owned
or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the
State.
Section 2.09. The State shall not take or permit to be taken
and shall cause each of its political or administrative
subdivisions and each of the entities owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the State or such
subdivisions not to take or permit to be taken, any action that
would prevent or interfere with the execution of the Project or
the performance of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan
Agreement or the performance of the obligations of any Executing
Entity under the Project.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The State shall: (a) cause DER-RO, SEC-RO and
SES-RO, respectively, to enter into, not later than June 30,
1984, arrangements with each Municipality to define the respon-
sibilities of the respective Municipality for the operation and
maintenance of the roads and the education and health facilities
included in the Project; and
(b)   provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required to efficiently operate and
maintain such roads and education and health facilities, all in
conformity with appropriate practices and by competent personnel
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The State shall provide in a timely manner
improved seeds in adequate amounts for the Project though its
on-going basic seed production and improved seed multiplication
programs.
Section 3.03. The State shall cause each Executing Entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit
of, the State to prepare and make available to the Bank the
reports, records, accounts and audits referred to in Sections
3.08, 5.02 and 5.03 of the Loan Agreement in respect of the Part
or Parts of the Project to be carried out by each such Executing
Entity.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the State thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify the State thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the State:
State of Rondonia
Secretaria de Planejamento
e Coordenagao Geral
Rua Padre Chiquinho 580
Bairro Pedrinhas
Porto Velho, Rondonia 78900
Brazil
Telex:
0692341
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Governador de Rondonia or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing, and the State shall furnish to the
Bank suff'cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement .may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF RONDONIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Staffing Schedule for Agricultural Extension
and Social Organization Services
Field Staff
Level of Qualification                       (number)
Year
1    2    3    4    5     6
Agricultural Extension Staff
High                   7    9   11   15   19   22
Medium                28   36   46   61   74   88
Social Organization Staff
High                   2    4    5    8   10    12
Medium                 4    8   11   16   20   25


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 3        day of AJ01"yJ98 3.
FOR SECRETARY


