Document ^
The Work
HL, 1.t1t,,Itl!!   ' C,,
FOR OFF0 CIl               t
ktg-t No.  9866
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN' 2180-CM)
AUGUST 28, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
S Ar *!     I ,  *  -   I                               W,    .I



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency:   CFA France (CFAF)
Rate at .Appraisal:  270
1982 .329
1983 .381
1984                             437
1986 .449
1986 .346
1987 .                           301
1988 .298
1989 .336
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT          --   Average Daily Traffic
AfDB/BAD    --   African Development Bank/Banque africaine de developpement
BADEA        --   Arab dank for Economic Development in Africa/Banque arabe pour le d6veloppement
hconomioue en Afrique
CCCE         --   French Development Fund/Caisse Centrals do Coop6ration Economiqua
CIDA         --   Canadian International Development Agency/Agence canadienne de developpement
international
CT           --   Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee
CTB          --   Central Tender Board
DH           --   Department of Highways/Direction des Routes
DSP          --   Division of Studies and Planning in MINT
EDF/FED      --   European Development Fund/Fonds europ6en do d6veloppement
FAC          --   French Bilateral Assistance/Fonds d'Aide ot de Coop6ration (Franc.)
Labog6nle   --   National Civil Works Laboratory/Laboratoiro do G6nle Civil
MINEP        --   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning/Minlst&re du Plan *t do l'Am6nagement
du Territoire
MINEQ        --   Ministry of Equipment/Ministere de l'Equipement
MINT         --   Ministry of Transport/Minist4re des Transports
MINTPT       --   Ministry of Public Works and Transport (croated in mid-1988 by combining MINEQ
and MINT)/Minist&re des Travaux Publics et du Transport
REGIFERCAM  --   National Railroad Company of Cameroon/R69ie Nationale des Chemins do For du
Cameroun
SAR          --   Staff Appraisal Report
TOR          --   Terms of Reference



T1 wouo  oa..                     . FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Was"O". 0 C. ao}}
U.S A
OGftbs of Dtw-Cm.ua
August 28. 1091
MEMORANDUM TO THEECUTIVE DICO AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Cameroon
Fifth Hi_hvav Prgiect (Lgan 2180-CM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Cameroon - Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2180-CM)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office. No aud-'t of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacbment
Attachment



FOR OMCIAL US5 ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT. LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
Preface    ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .
Basic Data Sheets  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      ii
Evaluation Suzmmary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .v
I.  INTRODUCTION ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  . . . .         2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6
IV.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION                        .      .1C
V. PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS            ..12
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                . . .13
VII.  ROLE OF THE BANK        ...                          .13
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
Annex 1  Details of Economic Reevaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
Annex 2  Cash Flow Tables and Supporting Data . . . . . . . . . . .        20
TABLES
2-1  Critical Path of the Project          .. .30
2-2 Cofinancing by Lots                      . . .31
3-1  Cost Estimates at Appraisal and Completion . . . . . . . .       32
3-2 Sources of Financing              ..33
MAP: IBRD 15470R Fifth Highway Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROECT. LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT C!QPLETION REPORT
PREPACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report for the Fifth Highway Project,
for which Loan 2180-CM in the amount of US$70 million was approved on June 15,
1982. The loan was fully disbursed on February 27, 1989 and was closed June 30,
1989, two years behind schedule.   Several co-lenders participated in the
financing of the project.
2.          The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Occidental and Central Africa Department, Africa Regional Office, and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, Bank files,
interviews with Bank staff assigned to the project, and a field visit in June
1990.
3.          The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on June 14, 1991, for comments by
July 26, 1991, but none were received.



- il -
REPUBLIC OF CAhiEROOW
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT. LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEETS
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                                   Expectation                     Actual
Total Project Cost (US8 million)                             216.8                      16S.7
Cost Underrun (U)                                               --                        16.9
IBRD Loan Amount (US$ million)                                  -                        70.0
Disbursed                                             --                       7.6 La
Cance lld                                             --                          o
RepTid (as of 03/03)                                                           11.5
Outstanding (as of 03/90)                             --                       68.6
Date Physical Components Coepleted                        12/81/86                   12/81/88 La
Proportion Completed by Abovo Date (X)                         100                         1e
Proportion of Tim  Overrun (X)                                                              so Lo
Economic Rate of Return (3)                                   24.5                       16.7
Institutional Performance                                                                Fair
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USB million)
item                      FY83     FY84     FY85     FY86      FY87     FY88     FY89
Appraisal Estimate               14.0     26.0      42.6 60.0    70.0            --       --
Actual                            9.8      16.2     24.7     51.8     68.6     64.9     70.0
Actual as X of Estimate           e6         64       69       86       84       98      10l
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                            Original Plan            Revisions                Actual
First Mention In Filee                     69/01/77
Government's Application                        N.A.
Negotiations                                   08/8s ok                  --           08/25-29/82
Board Approval of the Loan                     16/86 Lb                  __              08/15/82
Loan Agroement Date                               --                     --              07/26/82
Effectiveness  Date                               --                     --              01/21/88
Closing Date                               08/86/87                66/30/88              06/30/89
Borrowor                                                                     Republic of Cameroon
Executing Agency                                                    Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                                          July 01--June 80
Follow-on Project                                                           Sixth Highway Project
Loan Number                                                                       Loan 2584-CM
Amount (USS Million)                                                            USS12S Million
Loan Agreemnt Date                                                           November 19, 1985
/a Original project works, except for the Labog6nie building, were completed by the end of 1987.
Lb Schedule at tim of Project Brief dated O:tober 12, 1979.



- ltl -
HISSXON DATA
No. ot        Mission            man
It..                   Month/Year     Persons      Composition LO      Weko      Date of Report
Identitication /b
Preparation                   67/78            1           H                 6.5        08/02/78
Preparation                   16/78            2           H, E              6.5        11/16/78
Preparation                   02/79            2           H, E              1.0        64/12/79
Preparation                   11/79            1           E                 1.5        11/27/79
Preparation                   12/79            1           H                 0.6        61/11/86
Appraisal                     lO/80            8           214, E            6.0        11/14/66 /e
Post Appraisal                08/S1            2           2E                1.0       65/84/81
H at Appraisal                06/81            2           2H                2.0        67/17/81
2osi. Appraisil               09/81            1           H                 0.6        10/27/81
Subtotal                                                                 18.5
Supervision  1                04/82            2           H, E              2.0        67/28/82
Supervision  2                08/82            a           SH                6.6        69/14/82
Supervision  8                1/82            1           H                 0.2        12/68/82
Supervision  4                01/83            1           H                 1.0        08j8O/88
Supervision  5                02/88            1           H                 2.0       67/19/88
Supervision  6                16/88            1           H                 1.0        01/19/84
Supervision  7                68/84            2           H, E              0.6        04/18/84
Supervision  8                1/84            1           H                 0.6        12/28/84
Supervislon  9                03/85            2           H, E              1.0       64/10/85
Supervision i                64/85            1           C                 2.0       07/09/85
Supervision 11                09/86            2           H, E              1.6       1/07/86
Supervision 12                11/85            2           H, E              2.0        12/18/85
Supervision 18                02/86            2           H, E              2.0       64/16/88
Supervision 14                065/88           1           E                 0.2        06/20/88
Supervision 16                66/86            1           H                 1.0       07/17/86
Supervision 16                10/86            2           H, E              2.0        11/20/86
Supervision 17                68/87            1           H                 0.5       64/16/87
Supervision 18                11/87            2           H, E              1.6        12/21/87
Supervision 19                s6/88            2           H, E              1.O       08/08/88
Supervision 20                68/89            1           E                 0.2       08/28/89
Subtotal                                                                 27.6
Total                                                                       41.1
am
lo E a Economist; H - Highway Engineer; C a Consultant
Lb Project was Identified In the courso of earlier project work In 1976 (see pars. 1.02)
/c Issue Paper



- Iv -
STAFF INPUT
(Staff Weeks)
Flscal Yert  FY81   FY82  FY38  FY84  FY68  FY86  FY87  FY68  FYS9   FY06               Total
Preppralul       16.4    --    --       --    --    --    --        --    --               16.4
Appraisal        69.4  18.6      -       -     --     --    --      --    --    --         83.0
Negotiatlons       --   19.9    --             --     --     --     --    --      --       19.9
Supervision        --     --    6.9  16.5  14.0  12.0   6.9    2.9    4.2    --            67.4
Other                                                                     0 _  , --    --  --  _ --   0.4    0.1  0.5
Total            35.8  88.6    0.9   16.6  14.0  12.6   6.9   2.9    4.6    6.1           177.2
Date for FYo 78-80 not available.
AFlIN, August 8, 1990
A:da*..pcr (MM)



- v -
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT. LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Introduction
1.        The main component in the Fifth Highway Project was the construction
of the Edda-Yaounde section of the Douala-Edda-Yaound6 Road (281 km). The new
alignment proposed (245 km) was about 36 km shorter than the existing road. The
existing paved section from Douala to Edda consisted of a low standard road which
was falling apart and badly needed reconstruction.   The existing laterite-
surfaced section between Edda and Yaounde followed a poor alignment and was
frequently closed to traffic during the rainy season. Even in the dry season,
the road was in poor condition and, given the heavy traffic, was difficult to
maintain (para. 1.02).
2.        The 1976 rainy season (July-November) was particularly critical .or
transport operations between Douala and Yaound4.   The road was completely
impassable for an extended period and rail traffic was dislocated by accidents,
derailments,  lack of motive power and a landslide.   As this situation was
becoming a national issue, the President announced in October 1976 that an
expressway was to be built between Douala and Yaounde to provide a secure means
of transport between the two cities, and that construction was to start almost
immediately. In January 1977, a firm of consultants was awarded a contract under
local financing for the technical feasibility study and detailed engineering of
a new expressway (para. 1.03).
Obiectives
3.        The objectives of the project were to assist the Government in
reconstructing the Edda-Yaoundd section of the Douala-Ed4a-Yaound4 Road, to
improve the Government's capacity for road rehabilitation and transportation
planning and coordination, gnd Lo lay the foundation of a maintenance and
rehabilitation program for the country's paved road network (para. 2.20).
Implementation Experience
4.        By the end of 1987, all project components had been successfully
completed with the exception of the Labog4nie headquarters building, and the
additional works included :i November 1985. Further preparation work was carried
out for MINT which provided a lasis for the Sixth Highway Project. The Closing
Date was amended twize, lastly to June 30, 1989, to accormodate the delays in
completing the project (para. 3.15).
5.        The Bank agreed that some remaining disbursements for the Labogdnie
headquarters building be covered under the Sixth Highway Project. Certain works
relating to the Douala-Yaoznde Road are also being financed under that project.
Disbursements were somewhat behind the appraisal estimate because of the delay
in start-up of construction of the Bank-financed Lot 7, and the strength of the
US dollar to the CFA franc in which the contract for Lot 7 was denominated
(para. 3.16).



- vi -
6.        The Bank-financed works were completed with a saving of about US$20 M
(para. 3.11). These savings were used to carry out substantial additional works
on the project road, as well as for continuation of technical assistance and
training. The total cost of the completed Bank-financed project underran the
original estimate by about 172 in dollar terms, but overran the estimate in CFAF
terms by about 12? (para. 3.17).
Results
7.        The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Edea-Yaounde road section in
the Bank-financed project is 10.72, or about one third lower than the rate
estimated by the consultants. The lower ERR was the result of higher construc-
tion costs and less than projected traffic.   The ERR in the Staff Appraisal
Report was 24.52, which in retrospect appears over-optimistic. A comparison with
the ERR given in the SAR is not appropriate because of the unavailability of the
working tables related to cash flows (paras. 4.05 and 4.06).
8.        Consultants played a substantial role in carrying out the project. The
many consultants, including firms and individuals, generally performed well on
all components of the project (para. 5.01).
9.        The Government's Central Tender Board was not particularly responsive
to the needs of the individual ministries it was supposed to serve, nor was it
inclined to follow Bank guidelines on procurement. This led to some difficulties
and delays which were eventually resolved (para. 6.03).
10.       The project was thoroughly prepared by the Bank, which also par-
ticis ated in seeking and arranging the substantial amount of co-financing
required for the Douala-Yaounde Road.   Supervision by the Bank contributed
substantially to the successful completion of the project (paras. 7.02 to 7.04).
Sustainability
11.       The project road section is sustainable both in terms of benefit
generation and asset conservation, provided that the overall Douala-Yaoundt Road
is adequately maintained. The Road is a direct beneficiary of the substantial
involvement of the Bank in upgrading road maintenance operations and institutions
both before the Fifth Highway Project, and followed-up even more intensively
under the Sixth Highway Project. Further upgrading of maintenance is likely to
be a major component in a transport sector project currently under preparation
(para. 4.13).
Findings and Lessons
12.       In persuading the Government to lower the concept of the road from a
'our-lane expressway to a two-lane  trunk highway,  the Bank acted in the
Borrower's best interests in containing costs and avoiding a very substantial
debt service burden in coming years (para. 8.08).
13.       The Bank played its role as "Chef de File" well concerning the securing
of cofinancing but had to limit that role for the construction phase
(para. 8.09).



- vii -
14.       The lessons learned aret (a) the Bank's insistence on thorough project
preparation, its efforts to carefully coordinate co-financing, and its close
supervision of the project contributed considerably to successful project
execution; (b) substantially qualified bids should be immediately rejected in
line with Bank guidelines; (c) the appointment of an overall consultant to
complete the design and supervise the construction of the Douala-Yaounde Road
would have expedited the work, especially during its early stages of preparation
and execution; this would have avoided some of the design problems which arose
on the overall road after some of the contractors had started work; and
(d) caution is indicated for the Bank assuming a "Chef de File* role for project
elements which. it does not finance, as happened for the Douala.-Edda section;
substantial cost overruns (532) on this section compare unfavorably with the
minimal (32) overrun on the section with Bank financing. On future projects,
more use should be made of counterparts to provide junior engineers and
economists with on-the-job experience (para. 8.10).



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT, LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first three Bank highway projects concentrated on the construction
of trunk roads, while the fourth was directed at strengthening road maintenance
capacity. The audit reports note that physical objectives of all four projects
were satisfactorily met but, because of inflation, costs of the second project
were nearly double. The PCR for the Second and Third Eighway Projects found that
'progress in developing transport related institutions had been slow ....   The
PCR for the Fourth Highway Project noted that institution building, planning and
vehicle control did not promise sustainable benefits.
1.02      The main component in the Fifth Highway Project was the construction
of the Edea-Yaounde section of the Douala-Ed4a-Yaound4 Road (281 km). The new
alignmant proposed was 245 km long and 36 km 1/ shorter than the existing
road. The existing section from Douala to Edda consisted of a low standard paved
road which was falling apart and badly needed reconstruction.   The existing
laterite-surfaced section between Edda and Yaounde was little more than a track.
It followed a poor alignment and was frequently closed to traffic during the
rainy season. Even in the dry season, the road was in poor condition and given
the healry traffic, was difficult to maintain.
1.03      The 1976 rainy season (July-November) was particularly critical for
transport operations between Douala and Yaounde.   The road was completely
impassable for an extended period and rail traffic was dislocated by accidents,
derailments,  lack of motive power and a landslide.   As this situation was
becoming a national issue, the President of the Republic announced to the
National Assembly in October 1976 that an expressway was to be built between
Douala and Yaounde to provide a secure means of transport between the two cities,
and that construction was to start almost immediately.
1.04      The Douala-Yaounde corridor was already served by the National Railway
Company of Cameroon (REGIFERCAM) which by mid-1979 had recei%bd four loans from
the Bank.   Bank files indicate that from the time the project was first
considered by the Bank, the effect of competition from the proposed road on the
railway was a matter of concern.
1.05      In the past,  resource allocations  in the transport sector were
influenced by the Government's regional development policy which was aimed at
satisfying socio-political demands. The project included the resources needed
to assess transport sector needs and priorities, and to strengthen its
management.
1.06      The Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ) 2/ was given responsibility for
the implementation of all project components, with the exception of the
1/   SAR, para. 4.03.
2/   In 1988, MINEQ was merged with MINT into a new Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MINTPT).



-2-
transportation survey and technical assistance to the Division of Studies and
Planning in the Ministry of Transport (MINT) 3/ for which the latter was
responsible.  The road component of the project was supervised by the Department
of Highways (DH) in MINEQ.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation
2.01      Reconstruction of the Douala-Yaoundd Road had the highest priority in
the Government's Fifth Development Program. Preliminary engineering of the road
was started in 1977 under the Fourth Development Plan when the Government engaged
a consultant to carry out the engineering for a four-lane divided expressway.
However, the expected traffic volume did not justify these high standards at this
time, and after extensive consultations between the Bank and the Government, the
latter finally instructed the consultant to reduce the design to the first two
lanes, with the option of adding two further lanes at a later stage. The Bank
prepared the terms of reference for a preliminary engineering and economic
feasibility study, and agreed to finance it under the Fourth Highway Project.
2.02      In mid-1978, prelluminary discussions with the Government included the
location of the alignment, the selection of design standards, the estimated
traffic and cost.   The project cost was tentatively estimated at US$225 H
equivalent, including price contingencies and construction supervision. As a
result of differences between the Government and the Bank over the Douala-Yaounde
corridor study, relations between the Bank and the Government were noted in the
files as having been strained. This may account, in part, for the Bank's unusual
acquiescence in November 1978, months before the feasibility study was scheduled
to become available, to the Government's proposal to begin construction work on
the road ir the dry season (November) of 1980. The detailed engineering and
bidding documents were expected by August 1979.   Appraisal was proposed in
May 1979 which would allow ample time for mobilizing co-financiers and for bid
opening before Board presentation for a start of construction in late 1980.
2.03      By mid-1979,  two issues had been resolved.   The Government had
(a) accepted a two-lane instead of a four-lane expressway; and (b) given up the
idea of a toll road. The Bank concluded that a toll would limit vehicle access
to a few intersections along the road, thereby reducing the road's development
impact.   Six major issues remainedt   (a) the overall efficiency of road
maintenance operations; (b) overall investments in the corridor; (c) the impact
of the road on the railway; (d) detailed design of the road; (e) the penetration
of the road into Douala; and (f) project financing. The Project Brief listed the
critical path for preparing and completing the project (Table 2-1).
2.04      Perhaps the most difficult issue was the impact of the road on the
railway. The Bank decided that it should limit its objective to ensuring fair
ces..petition between the two modes.  The studies (para. 2.01) showed that if
designed as a two-lane trunk road, traffic would divert to the road to an extent
diminishing railway revenues by 12-15Z, and that a diversion of such an amount
was economically justified. However, if built to expressway standards, even
3/   See footnote 2.



initially to two lanes, a larger diversion would result, as even at peak hour its
capacity would be utilized no more t.an 202. Thus, resource allocation in the
Cameroonian economy would be negatively affected, not only by a substantial
investment in an uneconomic expressway, but through its causing the diversion of
railway traffic to the road beyond the optimum.
2.05      The first meeting of the co-donors for the Douala-Yaounde Road was held
in Yaounde in July 1979. The road works were divided into nine lots. The French
Government and EDF picked a lot considered suitable for their financing, while
other representatives, who participated as observers, could not make commitments.
The Government agreed that the Bank would contact potential donors not present
at the meeting to explore their interest in financing the road.  It was also
agreed that the meeting would reconvene in October. The Bank promptly contacted
a number of countries and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to sound out their
interest in the project.
2.06      In October 1979, the Bank learned that there had been some slippage on
the part of the consultant in preparing cost estimates and draft bidding
documents for the project in part because of non-payment of consulting fees. A
further update of the Project Brief was then issued to reflect the last
information and schedule.
2.07      A second co-donors meeting called by the Government was held in Paris
in December 1979 but like the first, it was not successful in closing the
financing gap. However, a third meeting in Brussels in May 1980, organized by
the Government with Bank assistance was successful in obtaining financing from
10 co-donors for all of the nine lots comprising the Douala-Yaounde Road
(Table 2-2). The Bank undertook to finance Lot 7, and possibly Lot 8 for which
firm financing had not yet been secured. Later, the Bank was asked to act as
"Chef de File' to oversee coordination among all co-financiers, and ensure smooth
implementation of the Douala-Yaoundd Road.
2.08      Prior to the project, the Bank and the Government had been engaged in
a dialogue on the need to strengthen transport sector management. The Government
was quite responsive to the need for planning, but initial attempts to reinforce
the organization and administrative machinery for planning and policy-making had
met with limited success. Developments before project appraisal indicated a more
positive attitude.  Government reorganization in late 1979 placed MINT in charge
of transport sector planning. MINT planned to enlarge the scope of its transport
planning unit and to upgrade it to the Division of Studies and Planning (DSP).
2.09      The Government planning effort had, in the past, been based on a
project-by-project approach which was adequate when the transport investment
alternatives were clear cut.  Now, however, more sophistication and rational
procedures for sectoral allocations were needed because increasingly complex
investment choices had to be made to sustain Cameroon's generally healthy
economic growth. The evolution of a systematic, long-term plan had also been
hampered by scarce technical expertise. Concerned by these shortcomings, the
Government requested Bank financing for a national transport survey to provide
it with a longer-term perspective of the sector's needs. This was in line with
the Bank's sectoral objectives which continued to be two-fold: (a) to develop
the Government's transport planning capacity; and (b) to strengthen the
management of the transport sector, particularly the efficient utilization of
existing infrastructure, coordination of transport modes, and improved project
implementation and monitoring. The survey was expected to form the basis for the



-4-
transport component of the next development plan and influence the actual
investments made in the sector in the last two years of the Fifth Development
Plan and subsequent plans.
Appraisal
2.10      The project was appraised in October 1980.  Discussions were h& d in
Paris with the consultants who had designed the Douala-Yaounde Road, as they were
no longer working in Cameroon. Thus, at a critical time in the preparation of
the project, no technical staff was locally available to the Government. The
Bank engaged an independent cost consultant to carry out a cost analysis of the
project. The Government had already called for tenders or awarded contracts for
Lots 1-5 from Douala to Edda (Section I -- 64.8 km). There was no supervision
engineer on the sites, but the Government indicated that it would award contracts
shortly for the supervision of the lots in Section I.
2.11      The Edda to Yaounde section (Section II -- 180.5 km) was divided into
Lots 6-9, of which construction and supervision of Lot 7 (65.3 km) had been
reserved for the Bank, as had supervision of Lots 6-9. A consortium of Arab
funds, the Netherlands Government and CIDA had already indicated an interest in
the remaining lots (6, 8 and 9, respectively). As work on Section I had already
started, the project was limited to Section II, construction of buildings for the
National Civil Works Laboratory (Labogenie), and technical assistance to MINEQ
and MINT.  As considerable uncertainty remained regarding the cost of Lot 7,
especially concerning the quality of the quarries, the Issues Paper recommended
that negotiations not be held until bids had been received. This proposal did
not delay project processing; in fact, it allowed the Government to proceed with
a tender call in parallel with the appraisal process.
2.12      Two main issues were noted in the Issues Paper:
(a) the role the Bank had been asked to play by the Government as "Chef de
File" (para. 2.07) which resulted in the scope of the project as
appraised being reduced (para. 2.13); and
(b) the impact of the Douala-Yaounde Road on the Railway (para. 2.14).
2.13      It was noted that the Government had repeatedly asked the Bank to be
"Chef de File' for the Douala-Yaounde Road construction.  Co-donors had also
expressed interest in continued coordination efforts by the Bank beyond project
preparation and establishment of the financing plan. The Decision Meeting agreed
that the Bank should accept in principle the Government's request to assume a
-wider advisory role for the construction of the entire Douala-Yaounde Road.
However, caution was expressed as to how far the Bank should get involved in the
execution of work over which it would have little control. For this reason, the
project included only Section II. To avoid any possibility that one or more lots
of Section I might not be completed, and thus isolate the Bank-financed lot, the
Issues Paper recommended that the Bank should require as a condition of
effectiveness, that contracts for the non-Bank-financed lots of Section I be
awarded, and that they be completed within a reasonable time limit.
2.14      As regards the impact of the Douala-Yaounde Road on the railway, it was
anticipated that the road would result in substantial journey time savings,
increased passenger and cargo safety, and service convenience which would divert



some traffic away from the railroad. About a third of the total truck traffic
estimated on the improved road was expected to be diverted away from the railway.
This, combined with loss of some passenger traffic, was expected to reduce
Regifercam's revenues by about 12-15Z, potentially a serious loss.
2.15      In February 1981, the Bank conveyed to the Government its concern that
it appeared to be awarding construction contracts without fully completed
detailed engineering. It once again urged the Government to promptly appoint
consultants on the Edea-Yaounde section to ensure that all aspects of the design
and documentation were completed at the time of tendering.
2.16      The files indicate that, for various reasons, including conflicts
between the Central Tender Board (CTB) and MINEQ, several months were lost in
appointing consultants for Section II and in calling for bids on Lot 7. MINEQ
had only one expatriate engineer to assist in this work and the Bank considered
appointing a highway engineer to its Yaoundd Resident Mission to assist the
Government. It was noted that work on Section I had started but serious problems
had developed because of inadequate engineering; hence, the Bank's effort to
expedite the appointm$t  of consultants on Section II to avoid a similar
situation. The visit of a senior Bank official in June 1981 was successful in
securing Government action on a number of these matters of concern to the Bank.
2.17      In August 1981, the Minister of Equipment visited the Bank to discuss
the procurement procedure problems the Bank was having with Cameroon. The main
issue was the country's rule to open bids behind closed doors which contradicted
the Bank's requirement for public bid opening. The Minister suggested that a
representative of the Bank attend bid openings for projects in which its
financing was involved. The Minister promised a proces-verbal of bid openings
which spelled out the bids received, which the Bank could make public if it
desired. Bank management later reluctantly accepted this arrangement for the
Fifth Highway Project only.
2.18      Negotiations took place late in March 1982.  The bid of the lowest
bidder for Lot 7 was accepted, provided that the bidder waived certain reserva-
tions related to the construction period and conditions of payment. The Bank
agreed to the further strengthening of Labogenie's capacity, and to include
fellowships for MINEQ to further enhance the training aspect of the project. The
loan amount remained at US$70 H as proposed earlier. Retroactive financing was
provided to finance urgently needed consultant services. The loan was approved
by the Board on June 15, 1982, and became effective on January 21, 1983.
2.19      The objectives of the project were to assist the Government in
constructing  a  section  of  the  Douala-Edea-Yaounde  Road,  to  improve  the
Government's capacity for road rehabilitation and transportation planning and
coordination, and to lay the foundation of a maintenance and rehabilitation
program for the country's paved road network.
2.20      To achieve these objectives, the project as finally defined consisted
of:
(a) civil works:
(i)     construction of the Edea-Yaound6 section (180.5 km) of the
Douala-Yaounde Road; and



-6-
(ii)     construction of new buildings for Labogenie.
(b) consultant services:
(i)     to supervise construction of the Edea-Yaoundb section;
(ii)     to prepare a national transport survey; and
(iii)     to evaluate the existing paved road network.
(c)  technical assistance to strengthen:
(i)     the DH in the MINEQ;
(ii)     the Planning Department in the MINT; and
(iii)     Labogenie.
The project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1986 at a total cost of
US$218.8 M equivalent. The total cost of the Bank-financed works was US$86.8 H.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Proiect Start-Up
3.01      By mid-1982, the contractors for the remaining works on Section I had
been selected, and works were either underway or about to start on Section II.
As the contractor for Lot 7 had been selected and the supervision consultants for
Lots 6 to 9 chosen by the time of negotiations, execution of the Bank-financed
civil works seemingly got off to a good start. However, as the low bidder for
Lot 7 refused to waive some of the qualifications he had submitted with his bid
(para. 2.18), his bid was eventually disqualified. The lot was re-tendered, the
list being restricted to earlier bidders, except for the disqualified bidder.
Further difficulties arose in adjudicating the award. Thus, unfortunately, a
contractor was not selected until early in 1983 which at that time placed the
Bank-financed Lot 7 on the critical path to the opening of the Road.
3.02      Terms of reference  (TOR)  for the national  transport  survey and
evaluation of the paved road network were agreed at negotiations and by mid-1982
short lists of consultants were being prepared by the Government. A contract to
assist MINEQ had been awarded in mid-April 1982. By mid-1982, MINT had agreed
on the TOR for two experts and for short-term specialists and was pursuing their
recruitment through the CTB. The same applied to Labogdnie for which TOR for
four experts had been agreed with the Bank. The Government was preparing a list
of equipment for Labogenie to be procured under the project and a list of
possible candidates to receive fellowships.
3.03      HINT, for some unknown reason, invited proposals for the above two
studies from short lists of consultants, and under TORs other than those which
had previously been agreed with the Bank. Thus, late in 1982, MJTT had to ask
the consultants to withdraw their proposals, prepare new short 13  ,, and follow
the TOR agreed on earlier.  The remaining components were proc    .ng satisfac-
torily and on schedule.



-7-
Progress during 1983 to 1984
3.04      The February 1983 supervision mission reported that there were no major
problems  with  the  project's  implementation.    Work  on  all  lots  of  the
Douala-Yaounde Road was underway. Lot 7 was still the critical section for the
overall road, although it was expected to be completed by the project completion
date. The Bank had agreed to the short lists for the transport survey and the
technical assistance to MINT, but the short list for the pavement study had not
yet been prepared. However, technical assistance for MINEQ was in place. The
consultant for the technical assistance to Labogdnie had been selected and bids
for the equipment would be invited once the consultant was in the field.
3.05      By mid-1983, construction of both sections of the Douala-Yaound4 Road
was generally well in hand, but some problems had emerged on Section I which was
outside the Bank-financed project.  Bids were in for the construction of the
Labogenie buildings, ani the technical assistance team for Labogdnie had started
to mobilize. Documents for inviting proposals for the two studies and technical
assistance to MINT were in the process of being approved by the Bank. By late
1983, the construction of the Douala-Yaounde Road was making good progress, and
proposals for the two studies were being evaluated.
3.06      By  early  1984,  about  45Z  of  the  total  construction  of  the
Douala-Yaound4 Road had been completed. Contracts for the two studies had been
awarded after a delay of about one year. The Bank was particularly concerned
over the delay in launching the paved road study because it provided the basis
for the Sixth Highway Project, which, at that time, was under preparation.
3.07      Towards the end of 1984,  the Douala-Yaound6 Road was about 65Z
completed, with the Bank-financed lot 75Z completed. The standard of workmanship
of the Edea-Yaounde section was considered satisfactory except for the quality
of the paving of Lot 8, which was later corrected. Construction of the buildings
for Labog6nie had been delayed, but training for laboratory staff was proceeding
well. Work had started on the studies, and technical assistance to MINT was
satisfactory.
Progress from 1985 to Completion
3.08      The March 1985 mission noted that the technical assistanie (coordina-
ting consultant) financed under the Loan to assist MINEQ in managing the Douala-
Yaound4 highway construction, was an important element in the overall progress
of the project. The management information provided by the consultant's periodic
reports had enabled MINEQ to monitor construction progress in a manner that would
ensure "on time" completion of all sections. The mission noted that it was only
unfortunate that there had been no adequate counterpart involvement with the
technical assistance team so that the control techniques used could be carried
on by the Ministry for future projects.
3.09      The pavement  study was behind schedule but was now progressing
satisfactorily.   The transport  survey was progressing well but technical
assistance to MINT had to be temporarily halted due to the departure of the team
leader for health reasons. Construction of the Labogenie building in Douala was
nearing completion, but property acquisition problems had so far prevented start
of construction of the new headquarters building in Yaounde.   Training of
Labog4nie staff was being satisfactorily carried out on the job and through
fellowships in France.   Some of the laboratory equipment had already been



ordered. No progress had been made in designating suitable fellowship candidates
for the DH in MINEQ because political aspects had been introduced in the
selection process.
3.10      In April 1985, a thorough supervision of the Douala-Yaounde Road,
including the Bank-financed project, was made by a consultant. He reported that
construction on the Douala-Yaounde Road was on schedule and it was expected to
be open for traffic at mid year. Overall quality of the work was good, and the
construction supervision consultants were maintaining reasonable control over the
work. 4/ A substantial claim from the contractor on Lot 7 was under review.
The Bank informed MINEQ that any settlement involving the use of loan funds would
require Bank concurrence, and that the Bank, prior to any such concurrence, would
require detailed analysis by the supervision consultants in support of the
settlement.
3.11      The September 1985 mission found that the paved roads study was
progressing well and the transport study was in its more intensive phase with the
draft final report due in early 1986. The Bank subsequently approved the use of
about US$20 H in anticipated savings for the additional work to improve traffic
safety and a new bridge at Edda to replace an existing bridge. The savings were
due to the favorable rate of exchange of the US dollar to the CFA franc. A minor
amendment of the Loan Agreement was made to accommodate the above changes.
3.12      By the end of 1987, most of the road construction works had been
completed. The contractor's claim on Lot 7 had been settled satisfactorily. The
Douala building for Labogenie was expected to be completed by mid year, while a
contract for the headquarters building was expected to be awarded shortly. The
paved roads study was proceeding without major problems. The draft transport
study had been reviewed in the Bank.
3.13      A supervision mission of July 1986 found that training of 30 MINEQ
technicians in France had been completed.   The level of proficiency of the
trainees was generally good.   Preparation of other training activities in
Cameroon was progressing satisfactorily.
3.14      The October 1986 mission reported that all loan funds were committed.
The Douala building for Labogenie was completed, but start of the Yaounde
building had been further delayed because of an expropriation problem. The paved
road study had been delayed because more road sections had been added. Technical
assistance to MINT was progressing well and the transport study had been
accepted. The report noted that as the value of the CFAF had recently increased
in relation to t'.e US dollar, the loan funds would not cover all of the
additional work epproved earlier.   These were deferred to the Sixth Highway
Project.
3.15      By the end of 1988, all project components had been successfully
completed with the exception of the Labogenie headquarters building, and the
additional works included in November 1985. Further preparation work was carried
out for MINT which strengthened the basis for the Sixth Highway Project.  The
Closing Date was amended twice, lastly to June 30, 1989, to accommodate the
4/   The  consultant  noted  the  deficiencies  in  the  pavement  for  Lot 8
(para. 3.07) and added that there had not been any other lapses in
supervision.



- 9 -
delays in completing the project.  The execution of Section I, vhich was not
included in the Bank project, was less problem free, and work was still going on
to stabilize the road over a swampy area near Douala.
Disbursements
3.16      The Loan account was closed on February 27, 1989 when the Loan was
fully disbursed. The Bank agreed that some remaining disbursements, particularly
relative to the Labogdnie headquarters building be covered under the Sixth
Highway Project. Certain complementary works relating to the Douala-laounid4 Road
are also being financed under that project. Disbursements were somewhat behind
the appraisal estimate because of the delay in start-up of construction of Lot 7
(para. 3.01), and the strength in 1983-86 of the US dollar to the CFA franc in
which the contract was denominated.
Project Cost
3.17      The cost estimates of the project at appraisal and completion are shown
in Table 3-1. Both the appraisal and completion costs are shown in US dollars
and CFAF. The table indicates that while the cost of the project increased by
12.3Z in CFAF terms, the dollar costs were 16.9Z lower because of the strength
of the US dollar during project implementation, as compared to the rate at
appraisal.
3.18      The sources of financing for the project are shown in Table 3-2.  It
should be noted that as the actual disbursements of each co-donor are not known,
their contributions were deduced from the Borrower's PCR on the assumption that
the co-donors financed only the foreign costs.
Project Maintenance
3.19      A drive over the Douala-Yaound6 Road shortly after it was completed
indicated that the road was in reasonably good condition, except for some
settlement and pavement failures on Section I (para. 3.15).   A more recent
inspection indicated that the road was not being adequately maintained and needed
grass cutting on the side slopes, repair of potholes and slides, and further
failures in the swampy area referred to above. The Bank has been endeavoring to
persuade the Government to focus more attention on maintenance, and recently
reallocated funds under the Sixth Highway Project to repair the failures noted
above.
3.20      A drive over the Douala-Yaounde Road in June 1990 indicated that three
separate sections totaling three km of pavement had failed on Section I. Repair
work was being performed under a second amendment to the original construction
contract. A third contract amendment was to be let out shortly, and the expected
completion date for this section is December 1990.  A landslide had occurred
about km 65 from Yaounde on Section II; a contract to remove the slide was to be
awarded shortly.



- 10 -
IV. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
Road Works
4.01      As mentioned in para. 2.11, the Bank project was confined to the
Edea-Yaounde section. However, for economic evaluation purposes, the Douala-Edda
and Edea-Yaounde sections form a single road and were treated as such in the SAR.
They were evaluated first as a single road and then as two separate sections.
The  same procedure was  followed  in this  report.    Traffic  forecasts  and
construction cost estimates represent the two key elements that determined the
outcome of the revised project ERRs as discussed below.
Traffic Forecasts
4.02      For the Douala-Edda section, MINTPT counts in 1987 showed an ADT of
2,352 compared to the consultant's 1978 forecast of ADT 3,192.   For the
Edea-Yaounde section, the consultant's forecasts turned out to be remarkably
accurate with a 1987 count of ADT 2,219 compared to a forecasted ADT of 2,231 for
the same year.   In traffic composition,  however,  there were considerable
differences. In particular, actual normal traffic volumes were much lower than
forecasted amounts, while induced traffic volumes were much higher.  The net
result of these variations was a reduction in project benefits because per
vehicle km benefits for induced traffic count only half as much as those for
normal traffic.
4.03      Also, the diversion from rail to road as a result of the project turned
out to be larger than forecasted.  However, the share of this traffic in the
total is small, and so is the benefit coefficient of the diverted traffic units,
so that the impact of this particular traffic volume variation in the revised
ERRs was not significant.
Proiect Cost Estimates
4.04      Project costs are discussed in Annex 1, while the cash flow tables are
given in Annex 2.
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs)
4.05      The following is a summary of the ERRs as they were calculated at
various times and by various concerned parties.
ERR. In X
As Calculated by       Y.ar of Calculation  Douala-Ed6a  E. a-Yaound6  Douala-Yaound6
(Section I)   (Section TI)
The Consultant.             1978             16.7         16.2           16.9
SAR (1981/82)               1981             28.4         24.5           28.4
Covtrneent's PCR            1989              9.1         14.8          11.7
Prosent PCR                  1990             8.0         10.7           9.4
(See Annex 2 for the cash flow tablso.)



- 11 -
4.06      The ERRs calculated by the feasibility consultants are included in this
report because details of the calculation of the ERRs in the Staff Appraisal
Report are not available. The censultants' ERRs are thus considered a better
basis for comparison.
4.07      The differences  in ERR results between those arrived at in the
Government's PCR and the Bank's PCR on one hand, and those in the consultants'
study estimates are considerable. About two thirds of the differences can be
explained by higher construction costs mainly on Section I, compared to the
consultants' original estimates, and the remaining third by shortfalls in traffic
projections compared to actuals.
4.08      There are slight divergences between the ERRs in the present report and
those arrived at in the Government's PCR.   They can mostly be explained by
differences in vehicle operating costs and cost differentials. The values used
in the present report are those obtained from the consultant's original report
adjusted to the 1990 price level.   These are lower than those used in the
Government's PCR and result, therefore, in lower benefit aggregates. Also, the
Government's PCR assumed residual values at the end of a fifteen year period for
earth and concrete works at higher values than warranted. On the other hand, the
Government's PCR did not include the value of time saved in its benefit
estimates, whereas the present report includes them.   However, the gain on
account of passenger time savings is smaller in value terms than the VOC factor,
thus the ERRs in the Bank's PCR are lower than those in the Government's PCR.
Studies and Technical Assistance
4.09      The transport survey provided Cameroon with a first overall assessment
of the sector, identified and screened future investment needs and proposed
institutional policy improvements or modifications. The survey was guided by an
Inter-ministerial Technical Committee (CT) which, on the basis of the
consultants' reports, prepared its own report and reccamendations.  The survey
provided a significant input to the Sixth Development Plan, even if the delays
in the start of the survey meant that the full survey report and detailed
investment analysis were not available by the time the Plan had to be finalized.
Also, the Government tended to take a more optimistic view of its project
implementation capacity and placed somewhat less emphasis on economic criteria
than suggested by the transport survey. As a result of the changed economic
situation since the transport survey, the Goverranent has, as part of its
structural adjustment program, stopped or deferred a number of projects included
in its Sixth Development Plan. A revision of the investment program proposed in
the transport survey may now be needed to reflect the change of economic
circumstances.
4.10      A number of institutional and sector policy recommendations made by the
transport survey were approved by MINT and submitted to the Presidency. Although
no general approval was given by the Presidency at the time, a number of the
recommendations have been acted upon or incorporated in the Government's recent
Declaration of Development Strategy and more detailed Policy Matrix for the
recently approved Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3089-CM).
4.11      The technical assistance to MINT helped the Government follow the
transport survey and acted in some respect as the secretariat and advisor for the
CT. It also helped prepare proposals to reorganize MINT, including the creation
of a Studies and Planning Directorate to train counterpart staff and to carry out



- 12 -
a number of transport policy and planning act2vities in addition to helping the
senior officials with day-to-day tasks. The impact of the technical assistance,
although clearly positive, was less than hoped for due to delays in the
reorganization of MINT, subsequent delays in nominations of senior Cameroonian
staff, and some changes in counterpart staff. More use of young economists and
engineers at MINT and MINEQ would have given them wider exposure to practical
experience. The technical assistance was therefore continued under the Sixth
Highway Project.
4.12      The study to evaluate the existing paved road network provided a much
needed assessment of the paved road network and relative priorities for its
strengthening. The initial standards used in the studies were somewhat higher
than strictly necessary and were subsequently reduced to reflect increasing
budget consLraints and changing priorities.   This resulted in delays in the
studies and the subsequent start of these works under the Sixth Highway Project.
Sustainability
4.13      The benefits of the main component of the project are sustainable
provided that the overall road is properly maintained. This should be the case
as the Douala-Yaounde Road is one of the most heavily travelled roads in the
country. The road is a direct beneficiary of the Bank's past involvement in the
road subsector, as well as its participatioia in the Sixth Highway Project. As
noted in the SAR for that project (para. 3.01), 'the main justifications for Bank
participation in the project are the focus on road maintenance and upgrading and
the strengthening of institutions, as well as the broadening of the financial
sources available for the development of this priority sector.' The objectives
of the Sixth Highway Project included maintenance planning and execution, and
traiaing begun under previous highway projects and strengthening of the
management of the National Equipment Pool, the main provider of equipment to
MINEQ. The road is a direct beneficiary of the substantial involvement of the
Bank in upgrading road maintenance operations and institutions both before the
Fifth Highway Project, and followed-up even more intensively under the Sixth
Highway Project.   Furthermore, the Government is currently reevaluating its
highway maintenance needs, and this is likely to be a major component in a
Transport Sector Project currently under preparation.
V. PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
5.01      Consultants played a major role in the project, not only in completing
the detailed engineering, but in the two major studies, and in the provision of
technical assistance. The consultants generally performed well on all components
of the project. Given the long period of execution and the delays in the award
of contracts, a considerable number of changes had to be made in consultants
personnel.   Also,  resignations and sickness necessitated further personnel
changes during the execution of the work. In the case of the Transport Survey,
the Government established the CT (para. 4.04) which assured prompt and
coordinated guidance to the consultants and facilitated their access to data
sources.



- 13 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      olnce the Government decided to construct the Douala-Yaounde Road, it
awarded a contract for the preliminary engineering of the road to four-lane
divided expressway standards.   Following the involvement of the Bank, these
standards were reduced to a high standard two-lane paved road. In its haste to
provide reliable road service between the two cities, the Government tended to
overlook the need for thorough technical investigations and study of the project
before committing itself.   The subsequent break in relations between the
Government and its design consultants created considerable difficulty for the
Bank in securing sufficient information on which to base an appraisal.
6.02      In proceeding with the award of some construction contracts before
completing detailed engineering, or even before engaging consultants to supervise
the works on site, the Government took substantial risks. In proceeding in this
manner, particularly on Section I, the Government discouraged the Bank from
taking a more active role as *Chef de File" (para. 2.13). However, the Bank did
fulfill this role on Section II, although its advice to the Government was not
always heeded.   For example, the Bank recommended that a single supervisory
consultant be appointed on Section II to ensure coordination of the work
throughout the Section, particularly as some lots were not readily accessible,
and there was a concern that scarce quarry sites might have to be shared by the
contractors. The Government, however, decided to appoint a separate consultant
on Lot 8, and one for Lots 6, 7, and 9.  Potential problems that might have
arisen from this arrangement were mitigated by the technical assistance staff
appointed to strengthen the DH which oversaw the overall project.
6.03      A particularly difficult problem for the Bank, which not only affected
the Fifth Highway Project but other Bank-financed projects as well, was presented
by the CTB, which was originally located in the Presidency. During the latter
stages of the project, the CTB was converted into a separate Ministry for
"Information et Marches Publics." This system was, in late 1988, replaced by a
General Directorate of Works at the Presidency. The CTB was not particularly
responsive to the needs of the individual Ministries it was supposed to serve,
ncr did it always follow Bank guidelines on procurement. These matters involved
a number of Bank projects, and as the problems created by the CTB and their
resolution were well documented elsewhere, they are not discussed in this report,
other than to note that they frequently delayed contract awards (see para. 7.05).
VII. ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      The Government put considerable pressure on the Bank to expedite its
approval of the project and to approach co-donors for financing. The Bank's role
became one of trying to keep up with Government expectations on the one hand, and
give due attention to proper project preparation on the other. By the beginning
of 1980, the Bank had fielded five preparation missions and by late 1980, was
ready to appraise the project.
7.02      The project was carefully and thoroughly prepared by Bank staff.  Good
use was made of the Project Brief and its subsequent revisions, as a vehicle for
planning and scheduling purposes, for identifying the issues and the critical
path, and providing a list of the major steps to be taken to complete preparation



- 14 -
(para. 2.03). The Bank worked closely with the Government in helping to select
appropriate design standards and prepare contract documents; it also prepared the
terms of reference for the engineering and assisted with the financing of this
work under an existing project. The Bank oversaw contract award procedures and
pressed for adequate on-site supervision.   The Bank's efforts contributed
substantially to the successful completion of Section II.
7.03      The Bank also performed well the task of seeking and coordinating the
co-financing for the Douala-Yaounde Road, and keeping the co-donors involved
adequately informed. The financing arrangements were innovative because of the
participation of private banks  as well as Government  institutions.    The
co-financing was arranged despite the fact that the overall road was not
engineered in detail, and because the preliminary design consultants were not
present at critical times in Cameroon to provide Bank missions with technical
data and costs. The Bank was wise to have an independent specialist carry out
a cost analysis of the project, inasmuch as this information was not available
to the appraisal mission.
7.04      Supervision of project execution by the Bank was painstaking and
despite the changes in staff over the 10 year life of the project from inception
to completion, the transition was smooth because the staff assigned were fully
experienced personnel. An average of three to four supervision visits per year
were made.   Missions worked closely with Government ministries and their
consultants which undoubtedly contributed to the successful conclusion of the
project.
7.05      One of the most serious problems created by the CTB was the handling
of the award of Lot 7 for construction (para. 3.01). As the apparent low bidder
for this work had substantially qualified his bid, it would appear that the bid
should have been promptly rejected both by the Government and the Bank, and the
award mL,de to the next lowest evaluated bidder. The ensuing delay in asking the
lowest bidder to drop his qualifications, and hia subsequent refusal necessitated
a re-bidding, and resulted in higher prices and further delays.  This placed
Lot 7 on the critical path of the overall road, but fortunately, opening of the
Douala-Yaoundt Road was not delayed.
7.06      The  studies  and  technical  assistance  components  of  the project
established a oasis for further Bank lending for highways to strengthen the paved
road network, to establish priorities across the transport sector. It provided
much needed training of local staff in the conduct of transport studies,
administration and management of the highway sector, and the strengthening and
expansion of Labogdnie, which participated fully in providing laboratory services
for the road component.
7.07      The Bank played its role of "Chef de File" well in arranging the
financing for the overall Douala-Yaound6 Road.   As far as construction was
concerned, the Government placed the Bank in an untenable position by failing to
follow its advise by starting work prematurely (para. 2.10), by awarding
contracts before the completion of detailed engineering (para. 2.15), and by
appointing separate consultants to supervise Section II (para. 6.02). The Bank
thus acted appropriately in limiting its role in the construction phase to
Section I (para. 2.13) in the light of the Government's unwillingness to take its
advice.



_ 15 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      The project,  including certain additional works, was successfully
completed with a 16.92 cost underrun in dollar terms, but with a two-year delay.
The delay is mainly attributed to slow award of contracts for the studies, and
the time needed to complete the additional works. However, the road component
as originally conceived was completed substantially within the original estimate
and time schedule. The quality of the work on all project components was good,
except for the deficiencies in the pavement of Lot 8 (para. 3.07).
8.02      The rate of return for the road component is substantially lower than
the ERR estimated by the feasibility consultants (paras. 4.05-4.06). The studies
provided a sound basis for the follow-on project, while the technical assistance
helped to strengthen local institutions (paras. 4.09-4.12).
8.03      The many consultants,  including firms and individuals,  generally
performed well on all aspects of the project. It is unfortunate that more use
of counterparts was not made during the execution of the road works (para. 3.08)
to take advantage of the opportunity for providing junior engineers with
invaluable on-the-job experience. The same applies to the transport survey and,
to a lesser extent, to the study which evaluated the existing paved road network
(para. 4.11).
8.04      The Government, in its haste to complete the overall road, tended to
overlook the need for thorough technical investigations and detailed design of
the project before committing itself to the award of construction contracts. In
so doing, the Government took substantial risks (para. 6.02).
8.05      The CTB was not particularly responsive to the needs of the individual
ministries it was supposed to serve, nor was it inclined to follow Bank
guidelines on procurement. This led to some difficulties and delays which were
eventually resolved (para. 6.03).
8.06      The project was thoroughly prepared by the Bank, which also contributed
to seeking and arranging the substantial amount of co-financing required for the
Douala-YaoundE Road.   Supervision by the Bank contributed to the successful
completion of the project (paras. 7.02-7.04).
8.07      The  studies and technical assistance provided a good basis  for
preparing the Sixth Highway Project, and contributed to strengthening technical
staff of the ministries involved in project execution (para. 7.06).
8.08      The Bank acted in the Borrower's best interests in pressing the
Government to limit the Douala-Yaounde Road to a two-lane facility. Whether, in
the light of the reduced ERR, due in part to high costs, the design standards
should have been further lowered is a more difficult issue to resolve. However,
given the pressure to proceed, the Bank exercised a strong influence in
containing the standards, and hence, the costs, of the Douala-Yaounde Road
(para. 7.02).
8.09      As regards its role as "Chef de File," the Bank provided invaluable
assistance to the Government in its effort to arrange cofinancing for the
Douala-Yaounde Road.   The Bank had little choice but to limit its role to
Section II of the Road during construction in the light of the Government's haste



-16-
to expedite construction more rapidly than appropriate under the circumstances
(para. 7.07).
8.10      The lessons learned include:  (a) the Bank's insistence on thorough
project preparation, its efforts to carefully coordinate co-financing, and its
close supervision of the project contributed considerably to successful project
execution; (b) substantially qualified bids should be immediately rejected in
line with Bank guidelines; (c) the appointment of an overall consultant to
complete the design and supervise the construction of the Douala-Yaounde Road
would have expedited the work, especially during its early stages of preparation
and execution; this would have avoided some of the design problems which arose
on the overall road after some of the contractors had started work; and
(d) caution is indicated for the Bank assuming a "Chef de File" role for project
elements which it does not finance, as happened for the Douala-Edda section;
substantial :ost overruns (53Z) on this section compare unfavorably with the
minimal (3Z) overrun on the section with Bank financing. On future projects,
more use should be made of counterparts to provide junior engineers and
economists with on-the-job experience.



- 17 -                        ANNEX  1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT. LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of Economic Reevaluation
1.         Traffic forecasts and construction cost estimates represent the two key
elements that determined the outcome of project ERRs.
Traffic Forecasts
2.         The following is a comparison between the consultant's forecasts for
the year 1987 and actual ADTs for the same year as established by the field
survey carried out by MINTPT.
1987 ADTs
Consultant$s Forecasts    Actuals    Ratio
Douala-Ed6a
Normal Traffic                 2,418             1,085     0.46
Diverted from Rail               185              260      1.41
Diverted from Air                189               95      0.60
Induced Traffic                  400              912      2.28
Total ADT                   8.192             2.362     0.74
Ed6a-YaoundA
Normal Traffic                 1,661              892      0.84
Diverted from Rail               171              260      1.52
Diverted from Air                189               96      0.60
Induc-d Traffic                  8101 829                  4.29
Total ADT                   2.231             2.219     0.99
Proipct Cost Estimates
3.         The actual total project cost based on Government's  PCR data was
US$583.4 M in 1990 prices and at the rate of exchange of US$1.00 = FCFA 265. On
May 1982, the SAR date, the rate of exchange was FCFA 270. For its total length
of 245 km, the per km project cost was US$2.29 M. The average per km cost for
the Douala-Edda section was US$4.6 M and for the Edda-Yaounde section US$1.6 M.



- 18 -                       ANNEX  1
Page 2 of 3
4.        The following is a project cost comparison summary presented in the
form of ratios.
Ratio              Doumla-Ed&&   Ed6s-Ysound6   Douala-Ysound6
SAR/Consultant'e            1.17          1.67           1.36
Actual/Consultant's         1.79          1.61           1.7e
Actual/SAR                  1.58          1.03           1.23
5.        The appraisal mission identified undercosting in the Edea-Yaound6
section of the project in the consultant's study and made .'iitable adjustments
to the cost estimates. Actual costs turned out to be only 3? nigher than the SAR
estimates inclusive of the quantity contingency allowance.  However, for the
Douala-Edda section, actual costs turned out to be 53? higher than appraisal
estimates, mainly due to design modifications, high unit prices, volume overruns
and weak cost control.
Economic Rates of Return
Government PCR ERRs
6.        The best estimate in the Government's PCR was 18Z.  A number of
adjustments were introducad to compensate for some oversights found in the
calculations: the principle ones of which were the following.
(a)  Vehicle operating savings were adjusted to their values net of taxes.
(b)  Diverted traffic from rail and air travel were taken out of estimates
for induced traffic, and accounted for separately in the economic
analysis.
(c)  Vehicle operating costs and construction costs were both adjusted to
1990 prices to compensate for their presentation at different price
levels reflecting their monetary values only.
The Government's PCR gave only a single ERR for the total project.   The
calculation on a rough basis of separate ERRs for each one of the two sections
is based on cash flow information the Government supplied.
ERRs in the Bank's PCR
7.        ERRs of the Bank PCR are based on the consultant's original 1978
estimates suitably adjusted to reflect actual construction costs, 1987 traffic
levels, their composition as established by the traffic survey, and lastly, to
reflect changes in the general price level between 1978 and 1990.



-19 -                        ANNEX  1
Page 3 of 3
Comparisons between ERRs as Arrived at by Lifferent Sources
8.        The following is a summary as they were calculated at various times and
by various concerned parties.
ERR. In X
As Calculated byt    Year ot Calculation   Douala-Ed6s  Ed&a-Yaound6  Dousla-Yaound6
The Consultants            19T8            16.7         15.2          16.9
SAR (1991/82)              1981            28.4         24.5          26.4
Cov-rnmnt 's PCR           1989             9.1         14.8          11.7
Present PCR                1998             0.8         10.7           9.4
9.        There are slight divergences between the ERRs in the present report and
those presented in the Government's PCR. They can be explained by differences
in vehicle operating costs and cost differentials and by time values.   The
consultants took into account the maintenance costs of the old Edea-Yaounde road
that was retained as a secondary road serving local traffic, whereas the
Government PCR did not.
10.       The Government PCR shows in the cash flow tables a residual value of
662 for the cost of earth works and 80  of structures.   Showing such high
residual values at the end of a 15-year period from opening year is indefensible.
Also, in the cash flow tables, the Government PCR showed that the total project
was executed over one year and showed full project benefits during the second
year, whereas it took five years to execute the bulk of the project.
11.       The benefit coefficients used in the present report are those obtained
from the consultant's original report adjusted to the 1990 price level. These
are lower than those used in the Government PCR and result, therefore, in lower
benefit aggregates. By contrast, the Government PCR does not include the value
of time saved in its benefit estimates whereas the present report includes them.
However, the gain for the ERRs in the present PCR on account of the latter is
much smaller than the loss on account of lower vehicle operating cost savings.
The result of the factors described in this and the previous paragraph resulted
in somewhat lower ERRs obtained in the present report compared to those appearing
in the Government PCR.
12.       Both the Government's PCR and the consultants underestimated savings
in road maintenance costs due to the new road. One last point to note is that
in neither the consultant's nor in the Government ERR estimates was an attempt
made to estimate decongestion benefits for the traffic remaining in the Douala
urban network and in those sections of the old Edea-Yaounde Road that was
retained. These benefits may have added one or two percentage points to ERRs for
the core investment.
13.       For further details on the economic analysis, including cash flow
tables and supporting data, reference is made to Annex 2.
AP1IN
August 30, 1990
AsAnxl.par (14)



-20-                           ANNEX  2
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT, LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cash Flow Tables and Supporting Data
1.        Cash flows are presented in three tables.  The first pair present the
discounted cash flow and ERR analysis for the Douala-Edda section, the second
for the Edea-Yaounde section, and the third for the overall Douala-Yaounde Road.
Further detail is provided in Table 7 on construction costs.
2.        From feasibility  study through appraisal and implementation,  the
project spanned a period of over 12 years between 1978 and 1990. This period
went through a major inflationary bout not only in third world countries but in
the world's industrial countries as well.   The question of how to convert
project-related cash flows based on monetary prices to cash prices at constant
or real prices, is central to recalculating ERRs to enable a meaningful
comparison between costs and benefits calculated at different times by different
factors.
3.        Two sets of comparisons are required.  The first and detailed one is
between the consultant's 1978 estimates and actual implementation results for
the near completion date of 1990.  Comparisons between the consultant's 1978
estimates and the 1981 appraisal estimates, and between the 1981 appraisal
estimates and actual results were confined to construction costs only. For the
benefits side of the equation, the comparison is between the consultant's 1978
estimates and actual results.
4.        At the end of 1986,  about 902 of the works were executed and
accordingly 1987 was adopted as the first year in which full project benefits
were realized for the actual traffic volume that was counted on the road during
that year.
5.        To bring all projected and actual cash flows to the same price level
for both construction costs and benefits, the index chosen for the local currency
component was the local cost of living index which is the only one available in
Cameroon. However, local currency component represents only 232 of construction
costs and about half of benefits. The index chosen for the foreign currency
component was the French cost of living index. This is because the price level
in the CFAF zone closely follows French prices and construction contracts are
often signed in CFAF or in European currencies.



-21 -                         ANNEX  2
Page 2 of 10
6.        The following is a statement of the two indices obtained from the IMF
International Statistics Publication of 1989.
Year          Cameroon Index           French Index
1978                51.9                    50.5
1979                55.3                    55.9
1980                60.6                    63.3
1981                67.1                    71.8
1982                76.0                    80.3
1983                88.7                    88.0
1984                98.7                    94.6
1985               100.0                   100.0
1986               107.7                   102.5
1987               114.2                   105.9
1988               124.0                   108.7
1989                 N/A                   112.5
1990                 N/A                   114.9
The two indices do not diverge significantly. For simplicity's sake, the French
index was used to do all the conversions to the 1990 price level.  Using a
combined index reflecting weights of foreign and local currency components would
have produced higher construction costs at 1990 prices by a few percentage points
than those arrived at. For purposes of converting CFAF values to US$, a rate
of exchanige of US$1.00 = CFAF 265 was used prevailing on June 1990.  The rate
of exchange appearing in the SAR of May 1982 was US$1.00 = CFAF 270.
ATTACHMENTS: Tables 1-7
APiIN
August 3, 1990
A:n32.pcr (MM)



0
C4                                                                          Wh   qn x        pioJ q POj Pa a j (a)
N~~~~~~~~~an   eu                                        ^sai       eu                si:          (m
35010  CVWU-     6019             M   OW00   PMON  AMtlad 661)
g*e013    s*au-        $VIII        oneO11IU
gnatI'K   ge-          #,$M                                        gat
son;     ult-          fla sil      1is-                            out
$ "|l      1 Ul-       ,gun         I'e                i1t-         Lai
st       1San-         s            ilS lsn           sot-           ml
$arn      SUe-          no          st                 "t-            t
I'MlA     M U-         slim         I's               ci-            1i
I'n       $'1o-        s1g          s&l               *Ml-          ga
*~~~~~~ oau                         giK-          t UHaS-U                      t-SZ-          out
*110      rtl-         5192         rLU               ot:-          mu
en::      *i:S-        *,15         ea o1 t-                         W1
CIA                           I'~~~~~~~te::  Iod-    stat          $,a               gig-le
n Ie Ot Ot-            00I06        o'n               $-             ml
otan-    o'w-          glg *-                         sin-          ml
I'Ms-    g'ttm-                                                      ml os  sis-  t
rig::-    go           ge           es                s-w-           utl
(e)          (O           ()
"u 1l%Ut  PMD                   no                       ML
Bl"      10 *o}  q d *  .10os  lp.
P te me 8    P alU P       1R03             ps q
"101    13           ^olqa&    30t1U3UJ          85SR  uUgl
#ll P1131101314 3303
U3" p 3q apTq
"'-"qu.
131WhUl  IINOII



tauL 2
Ieosie ate of btan
tolid U- fot m
1.IDE Mllilliosm
Cmebuotl1 & For111
ntrnw      &      tou   i                   ehicle   t       katc                1
hitume  out for               ltemmc              uaip              costa
huhek                     Cost uts  md   lof    forel roN W
o1ld ha   sum er tie    fot the  uith
fear       hula-eU             *tif w*o et0             ead inrject aue
cal                                    traffic
1a)             lb)              lc)
1113          -1631.8                     .               0.6              0.0      -161.6
114          -U16M.2                     e.g              *.            -268.3    -15111.5
13            -15221.2                    0.S             6.0           -2U.3    -150.5
1to            -1611.6                  12.4           386.4           -1315.4      -5014.1
1in             -51.1                  115.            461.1             -43.1       410.91
Il             -51.1                  15.0            44.4              -4.1        4414.1
116             -51.1                 16.1             4i1.1            -122.1       412.6 
1110            -3.6                    MI5.6          41.5            -1545.4        648.1
110             -53.                   1S.0            526.              -01.4       5260.
1M2           -2256.4                  l1S.I            511.0            -4.4        4181.0
13            -1406.0                   1.1               $.1           -12.         4411.3
1114            -64.6                  26.3              2.1           -134.1        501M.
m 5-66.1                              1182.6           660.5             -4.4         21.0
1116            -66.1                  15.6            1610.3            -41.4       108.0
u1            -22.0                    II.             1451.2           -I.6         5214.
1               -86.1                 1111.6           1115.1          -1340.1       5263.
1o             -441.6                   1.T            646.2             -4.4        1IS1.?
26              -11.?                  11.1           1t25.4             -41.4      1310.3
M5.05                                   -10.0
(a) lb yew  MD h m t211e0     w lh   of 1t  im"t rood.
(c)        e  d W n roa  to FE"  Om  to mmmal 1ca traffl



44
0
x                                                t-tsi        n -f mseiox                                        i-
egg,,     si-            e:s             em                  ci-             ou
em,tS      el--             Zone;        *ia m,"-                             mg
01061      0 11-          01515          gift                 011-            560
011.5      Czl-          05505          COft                 011-            50l
0'6s1      011-           *0M            CM                   611-           1"i
I'll t     sin-           l'etsu         *n                   *stm-           tot
01.111     011:-          I'M1            0111                0'5-            1661
63111t     C-It-          6116            0-m                 036-           1cu
0136      -011-           0nu            *m                   o *-             ml
00113      016-           05'111         I'M                  015-            606t
Clug       011-           *'zm           IeM                  I's-             Mt
e Mis      $-             O'"" u*ti                           #'n-             Mt6
                                 l-"tt~~~~~~~~~~U  $'&I-    I'a11          e'st        "                 "It"
Mt         0a1-           6,all           *'n 1S-S-                           516
11l11.-    0101-            0ll          I'0                  0511-            ml6
SiLtL-     00s 00                         00                  00153-          301t
|-IUt-k    (                              I's t(t
"N 10.u         Af            1soa z*
p01no0301    p OSPA5        9INS                PR .g
3130           ii jas         3031             103133 UUUnoI
ns             *hTn"    "IMMTI    mg KM0 _w
Ulu01      '3m311I        110*O '101qS1  '1 dh1l33         *%Adl "u"p          "
10011111 VIDE VI
9USI tMtit*  *X^tu"
&M,1l 10 '13 310"01
pSow3l-



tau 4
liu-laoude
Revised M for tC1
1I ICIO lillou
fur UMtJWti  & Pgriodic            ki i is   Veitcle opcost    hlateum e              tOT
htu          eut Ur         blutese              snius             cts
hined                    Costs      fa nlse ot    tor old  a
04lol a   guuner tim        for teo .ith
uitb projeet           saved   proJet cam
case                                   traftic
(a)             (b)              (e)
116           -16.0                              0.              0.0             -1664.0
1#4          -15165.4                    0.0 S.O                       -615.I    -175110.
InS          -ISUss.S I. SOt                                           -e1U1.     -15715.1
15,6          -1662.6                  15.5            4 156.4          -25.       -3056.6
1too            -1.5                   656             4532.3           -25.6       M5U65.
I1              -n.5                    5.6           5116.3            -25.6      5611.6
1II1            -11.5                  160.6      1   543.             -202.4       5314.5
im              -T.5                    5.6           5141.5            -25.6       6254.6
151             -11.5                  6.             15m.5             -2.6        6152.1
1562            -11.5                     .           6UU.3             -25.8       101.
I153          -5651.6                  110.8          6553.2           -2S2.4       1104.1
I"              -1.4                 12M5.           126S.3            -25.6       6353.2
1135            -00.4                  132.0          1121.1            -25.6       1342.6
16              -N.4                   1320           6161.1            -25.6       6116.1
i11             -S.4                   132.0          663.4            -262.4      1N12
11              -".4                   111.3          616ll.            -25.6       1351.9
Im              -50                   1251.3            5154.           -25.6      1615.?
2"S             -N0.4                  11.3          1m2.4              -25.1      26515.5
111 t.                -161.2
(a) The yw  2hc bwkd       . res rkl vaf of tt project rmod.
(c) ThM old roam  I proct  to rmin vm to aooodte bmocl traffic.
00



komic late of Iet n
Cosultuat OrItiual 108
Is ml li11ii
.    . ..  ..............................  ... ............... ............................... . .............. ... ..... .
tr         ,kn     & F                 vigs in   VileMole opeost    llataee tL
ht.e.e mu tor                 anten                  vinp             cots
h i                       Csts       a dIalneof      fo  ol road
Old lead    pasne  tine    for the ',lt
selt  project            m"d    froject' cse
cme                                      traffic
(a)              (h)              (t)
1--4          -135-0.0                     0.0              0.6           -416.0    -1-  3-6.0
INS           -13513.8                     6.0              0.             -4116.    -133.6
116            -.0                       10.6            51.6             -623.0       -1107.0
1"?              -1.0                     1.0            035.0             -32.0         646.0
1l               -16.                   317.1            6613.0            -32.0        65.0
1                -0.0                    6.0             16S              -151.0        113.0
1W               -61.6                  311.0            7431.            -637.0       71i0.0
131              -61.o                   37.1           71.6               -340.        nu.o
1012           -165.0                   1121.0           1131.0            -34.0        6433.6
1M1            -3100.0                   111.0           6732.6           -153.0        55n.6
1114             -.0         660.M                        516.0           -631.0         465.0
115              -73.1                  111.S           10101.0            -31.0       11162.1
13               -3.6                   124.0           114.0              -31.0       11011.0
111            -135.0                    424.6          11362.6           -153.0       10533.0
mI               -73.6                  1N1.            12656.0           -631.0       1254.0
Im              -250.6                  713.0           1230.0             -34.0       13232.6
20               -73.0                   454.0          2601.0             -34.6       215.0
(a) lt  yr 200M ksudm tt  reslkl vakm of the projwt road.
(c) lh old road B procs to rmh bDm to acca.odts boaI traffic.



-27-                                 ANNEX 2
*                               Page 8 of 10
, ~~~~~~   . .. .i!...  .                       .ia s s $ l . .
Ca                 ax
;a                    S          E ; x a ]  j  I   o es i = . , s 3 i n i  to
*                  t !a |            V! =E   i     -Z
I!-    1'''
.,          |il!is33=3|li



Till?
IURLIC 0 cam
.       ...........
nim uIsUt two, ton 21Us-c
no;r copuLnl upon
DOIALI-DU-TOIDI 3013
A. CO1iSC                         COIS iOC?101 CCICI Il   A   iUIn  51Of1M1S
I=1            nOi?     gum 1   1                  In 0 11                               13        15233.00       21421.03          m31n1.H0
0Im   INI                              lOll        141T.31       30461.11         51113.21
2M                                      Me6       43311.30       4HA.1T           O2V11.3
5o001         unus  won  (A)                     INC 031?                                till      21151.0        41361.H0          TM2 .
CO31itIUICI  10
U01 i05  1511    II                    1          46313.66       10113.61        1 16516.1
11 In? Vhls
SUIC_: 10              1  ICCOIS  (3)            UI c3m? film                                      6364.01        5116.0.14        116132.84
IICLn Um?311                      11if  InIN                              IM3       3)113.16       "1M1.            I163.0
......... .............. .... .... .. .. ..... .... ... . . ....................... .................................
SO063:         UplU l303                         1001311??                               10         3320.u          W84.0            116.6U
COITIUWIICII 10
11111311511f II%
MuLu mlen 11
1if I     mcis                         m10         5317.14         213.11         11521.11
CUOCIIU  X11 11s101 COS"
.. .. ................
aJm                                              um                       1601      21401.31        36415.31         111531.2
tuft bad wt    ia 40
Npte,iui@    costs  UIf16                               1036       43315.16       48163.4?         31111.31
utlash. 1hea abo eacla  tbi.
1U1151                                           U3!UIUL                  1101      32211.01       41111.H         1m613.64
mm                                               uoni
10        51611.61       16531.1         121314.27
00c1U         ICt                                60hlRI  rct E111                   10361.01       1651.06          151121.36
1600 FlChS                                       199l   PRICIS



tauI I MOIND
tuOgC  COt  UCUTO
non  cost U?141
betues coultut's etiutes                                      between  eosultuts estisates                                     1.51            1.31
ad appraiul estiuat                                           ad appraisal estiumte
bit"" coeultut'e estisates                                    btuec  couultut's estitu.                          151.1 U171
umd  tul rulte                                                ai aetul results
ktue   apniul  id                                             btmea aprluisl sad                                        1.13                   1.23
actul eults                                                   aetul reult
WSE                             all tie       are 1  real  sts at 1t35 price Iel.
1) I USLU  III MRt tUI IO    mUt
(1 N    00n CEOINIE           P? n21/38 (of S/  reeved is  te S  ab Si  25/21)
a



Table 2-1
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT, LOAN 2180-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Critical Path of the Prolect
Dace                            Action                                      Critical Steps
July 1979                 Meeting of Potential Co-financiers
Sept./Oct. 1979           Completion of Technical and Economic
Feasibility Studieos
November 1979             Final Meeting of Co-financier.                   Agrement with Covernment
Preparation Minslon                              on Road Design
December 1979             Draft Bidding Documents                          Firm Financial Plan
Appralial Mission
January 1980              Start Prequalification of contractors
April 1980                Complet  Prequalification of contractore         Final Bidding Documnts
Post-appralial Mission                           Call for Bids
May 1980                  Yellow Cover Appraisal Report
July 1980                                                                  Opening of Bids
August 1980               Negotiations
October 1980              Board Presentatlon
November 1980                                                              Letter of Intent to
Selected Contractors
January 1981              Start Road Construction
June 1984                 Completion of Road construction
Source: Project Brief, Proposed Fifth Highway Projoct, dated October 12, 1979.
AFlIN
May 11, 1990
A:Tg-l.pcr (NO)



I                                               _~~~~~~~~~~~~- I
ros .z
Assis       UNS mpi. IXWturt          ar"Priod         tores
IAW%        ~~~Ftrwnces AgO^               rrqpA      (El I) I tIlon)    (Sir- Iy I Ion  (v.)
1           _hRowtdve aC
-U I                                 UC          10.0         13.2        i1s             a             7.0
- UBDE                               UC           .6           0.4        iS              a             6.0
Femme (seeLo t ND.A  )
31         UO%rlww
Qavera_n                         big.          7.0            .        isisn    b     US.0
Piate  lr *1.                                 10.0          S.7        i               2             7.0
Toal/Aver baf.                                   17.0          6.         11.5            6.8           7.4
Sb         EDF                                  EU           4.7 Al       ?.0 A      40             to             1.0
4          Fianc (me Lot1 No. 6)
a          Frwe  (Ld  2 * 4 * )
- CEFF                                          UO            22.2        is              7             6.6
- CnE                                fF         100 7..6                  10     16              6     14.70
- FAC                                FF          ao            S.4        -              **A             -
-Priate Caitt                        FF         0ao. A          .1 A       7a  A           A            0.0 A
Totl/Av-ru* Ak                      FF         Sl    A       70.4 A       10.4 A         s.6 h         8.4h
Total Sectioa   I                      .10.U68) lOI.4
-So                                               *7 Dtr  00   71.0       40                            1.0 a
- tlanc  Bomta                   c pl.            4.0 60  2D 6a s.
-  "  Dhbit Fufmd                  Die rho       U 10          4.4        SO              o6            J.6
T-       l/Av1                                                01.4        go              a             5.5
r n                                              4105         1.6         i s0            6            14.15
*    Nehrlad
(koverfmomt                      bti.         s8            6.         i U1to                        2-0
-Private a"di A                     pt.        IN04.1                   to*              a            6.0 
*el/Ave"r                           1#1.        inJ           43.7        11.12           4.1         lO S
0Tcam"              aeAP                                   8D0  A        17.4       t10.                           a 6
Total Section II (.4la-dum4)                                  JJ
Ge_ Total Setin I A 2 (Oula-Vomemi)                                     29-
Foso famtwe of tcontruto of _te doullu-_ooa4 ra  (coudig w-mtr n_ti   _Wpei  ueah to tchtoc l
u_ldu co nrtium  ofi).
Excludes    Alt Fmmeiun  oinr                              0 o1.0 0a 5t .ri e6 hn     uialld  *t     fee
M  Plus 0 - 5 FIH (Sra) for pro,iaa at. 4bor60 
is emlw - tu oe 0 Fun P.M. for low                  .        15. 4a.45o6
mrwtk_ enttUi l-H V, Private l Siak  aerontSf V.            100          87.0 1"0                    8               .
Toa S11,o  ILCdl-scnl
A:T2-2.pcr (M)



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT LOAN 2180-CM
PROJET COMWLETIUM REPURT
coat Estimte, at ADgrasl *nd Co toletion
(In UW milIlong)
--sl"l --- zLa /b le Ic~                                 --- Actual
Item                      US$ Million          Foreign as  US1 11  CFAF B                   US2 mll i os                 CFAF S
Local  Foreign   Total  1 of Total  Loan   Total Ld  Local  Foreign le   Total L    Ln  9   Total a
1. Coastuclos
LeTTIr          L               9.6     88.1    88.1         7? n            10.56        7.9    15.8         23.         -        8.22
Lot 7 C                        13.9    48.8 0     6.5        77      47.7   16.84        11.4    48.0         61.4      51.0       s 3.
LotI I(6      )     7    r    15.6    52.8    68.2           n         -     10.41       11.6    35.2         43.8        -       17.33
Subtota                      1175    19.1      241 1U71             77    UrR7         171    1171         21112                 7.64
Le 9-  Un. -67                                                   4   UN    U9 MI    W                                  -   U77_
2. Sm. -Ltfem6Ato9
Edft-Yeseat (M.-VW        I     2.4      9.6    12.6         a        0.6    3.24         1.2      4.7         6.9                 2.48
a. Technical Assistance                                                                                                    16 9 IL
*) ORiln dUUlE4             6.3      1.7      2.6        *2       1.7    O.54         6.2      1.J         1.1                  .6t
b) DSP to bINT                 *.2      1.0      1.2        00       1.6 J   *.82     2           1.6         1.2                  .47
Subtotal                    ir[   n1           *I                 37                         b #:          i                    To
4. Fellowabns  for DR              *.1      .7       *.0        a         .      *.22        9.1      O.S         6.7       *.6       6.10
5.  bloD nt of Le"   I
(ia e1ding Constructlon   * .0           1.7      2.5        76       1.7    a.0"          .9      3.6    *     .9        -1.6
Equipment                     6.2      2.2      2.4        a6       2.2    0.08         0.2      1.5         1.7       1.5       0.64
c) F llowlhp                    -       6.8      6.8       1ts       0.3    0.f_ -                 -           -         -          -
Cd) Techa icl Assltalnoe       8.4       1.2      1.6        77       1.2    0.40        8.4      1.6         2.0         -         .76 
Subtotal                    M7       C        171        -        1       1           171      171         17         -
S. Pr laxvt_t  Stedlcs
a   0iTrnportatilon Pras   0     .6      1.2      1.5       7n        1.2    8.54        0.4       1.4        1.0                  8.67
(b) Evaluation of
Paved Road  (2,411 km)    0.4       1.6      2.S        82       1.7    6.46         1.6      6.2         7.0        -        2.J7
Subtotal In7 175    1VT                                           1       FI.94   2    71      73     i   E_                   164
Total Project Cost             49.a   189.    6210.8         n       09.0   69.08        47.8   183.1        111.0        -       00.20
Front End Fee
on Bank'o Lam                  -       1.0      1.0      1in        1.6    6.27          -       1.6         1.6       1.6       0.27
Total Financing                49.a   17 .6   219.0          7s      7 .0   69.          47.    134.1        181.9      76.6      66.56
NOTE:  1 *Mililon.; 8 *  ilions; ean.o mflure  rounded.
f   Source: Staff Appraisal Report of May 21. 1962, pag 24.
Costo givon In the SAR In US dollars only, at January 1082 prices.
c  Contingencleo  prorated to each category (physical -  106 on Items 1, 6(a), and 5(b); price of 18.6% on each category).                       c
Converted at the appraisal rate of CFAF 276  USt1.31
e  Converted to US dollars at the contract rates; sos supervision report of November 20, 1986, except for Lots  , 8, and 9 where the rates 
are not availoble. For these lote  the average rate of CFAF 356 a US11 for 1082/3, when they wero constructed, has been used.
/f Foreign currency calculated on basis of dIsbursement rate. given In Loan Agreemnt and In Borrower's PCR.
MNemrandum dated March 9, 1989, froo Africa Disburments Dlvioion closing the Loan Account.
Source.: Borrower's PCR and supervision report of November 26, 190.
Financed by Arab Fund.
ZI Financed by the Bank.
Also Includes civil works under Category S().
7 Financed by th Natharl.nd
FiFnnced by Ctnade l
n Also includes consulting servicoo under Categories , 6(d), and 6.
AF1IN, August 2, 1990 -- Job 1 -- A:T3-1.pcr (MM)



.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .
- as -
Tabl- 8-2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HICHWAY PROJECT, LOAN 2189-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Source. of Financins
------- Appraisal             --      ------------- Actual ----------
Co-donors            CFAF Billions /a   USf Millions /b    CFAF Billions /c   US$ Millong Ld
Arab Funds (Lot 6) /-          8.48                81.4                5.46                1653
IBRD (including Lot 7)        18.90                70.0               28.95                7060
Nethorlands (Lot 8)           11.89                48.7               12.61                86.2
Canada (Lot 9)                 4.48                16.4                4.82                18.6
Government                    15.47                67.8               16.67                47.8
Total                         69.a8               218.8               66.84               181.9
C==:=
/a Converted at tho appraisal rate of USSI a 270 CFAF
lb Source: Staff Appraisal Report, May 21, 1982, pgeg 24
/c  Source: Borrower's PCR
Id Converted at the rate of US81 a 856 CFAF for Canadian, Netherlands and Arab Banks' financing,
and at rate of 886 for Bank financing.
f/ Comprised Kuwait Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund and Islamic Bank
NOTE:   Actual disbursement by cofinanct-ro Is unknown. Abovy  4ata obtained from Borrower's
PCR which indicates foreign and local costs In CFAF.
AFlIN
May 16, 1990
A:TS-2.pcr (10*)



NIGER  /    CHAD           -                ~~~~~~~~~~Thismrap mbemnPepar.d bv
)~IUDAN           for fte corwu,'wece Of fte
-1                           m~~~~~~~~~~radem and is exctieroy for me
PASO                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and UVe edeiaonal Fewice
4                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Corporation The wOoOin
>  JO-i Zi                                                 wW p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aonwy an met egal statu                                                                       T
z  -0.  -                       f ~~~~~CENTRAL AFRICAN             of WVy twntovy oran
REPUBL  endomement or SCCOPMWO Of                                                     *J+NDJAMENA
_-  CAMER001N\                                                                                                                            Koss?
GUINEA                                                                                                                                                           C          H     A     DIE~.
J         P1E)       Z AlI R E
GABON 
1*\.jsi3    C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Oa                                            os
Guirvidig~
UNITED  REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                                                    '--l Marou   .-
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                     %(ZZMakaI
Project Roadr
F  -Rad unider construction
it?                 ~~~~Roads constructed under
previous projects                                                                                                                        *
Paveo Roads:                                       204           T 10?01               IDFg
National                                                                                                      Fgi
Unpaved Roads:                                               KILOMETERS
-    National                                                             60      0     10
---P ovincial                                                        MI2LES'0     80     10
    Diustrict 
-'-~--Railroads
Rivers
Ports
International airports
International boundariesMon.
Guid~~~~~~~~~~~
Botbokoum
NI G E R IA
I  ~~~~~ ~Nkambe               * ~             anyo               C/Meigangc 
Mbengt     No
.Okiri6
ytj~~aba   aChuO     -D    U,                                                                                   Garo                     To B        EonTguAi
~~~~ Bafong  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~T Bnu
/  Mimdemba      s~~~Mb                                                                                                                                     A   F  R  I C A   N
rmdembo    Nkongsam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oodu2
Dorvibs ri 
NJbsa.\                               cheilg 
J,,I                                                                                                             TO BerbLrr _(-/t"
Mobkddouu 
0~~~~
EQUEQAORAAUIETOAB0RIALEPL'RP.FHEOG
GUINEA                 ONINNTLGUNE)\ 
I  Akom I                                                                                        I



