Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3473-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 21, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                    CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million      =   US$3,704
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
Metric                                    British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (m3)                        1.31 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 kilometer (km)                          0.62 mile (mi)
i square kilometer (km2)      =           0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (ton)            =           2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMAIR    -    Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP   -    Cameroon Shipping Lines S.A.
CAR       -    Central African Republic
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
DH        -    Department of Highways
DHM       -    Division of Highway Maintenance
DNW       -    Division of New Works
DOT       -    Department of Transportation
DSP       -    Division of Studies and Planning in MOT
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
Labogenie -    National Civil Works Laboratory
MINEQ     -    Ministry of Equipment
MINEP     -    Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning
MINT      -    Ministry of Transportation
MIHEU     -    Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs
NCEEP     -    National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool
NPA       -    National Port Authority
RPU       -    Road Planning Unit
REGIFERCAM-    National Railroad Company of Cameroon
TPB       -    Training Production Brigade
TPCU      -    Transport Planning and Coordination Unit
URC       -    United Republic of Cameroon
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD       -    Vehicles per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......................................                     1
A.   Background            ...............    ...... 0- ............            1
B.   The Transport System ..................2........                           2
C.   Transport Priorities of the Fourth Development Plan                        4
D.   Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination .... ...                       5
E.   Sectoral Development ..6............. ....  ........                       6
II.  THE ROAD SUBSECTOR .......................................                       7
A.   The Network ........................          . .................          7
B.   Road Transport Characteristics              .....................          9
C.   Road Transport Industry .............................                     10
D.   Administration and Planning .....          .....................          11
E.   Staffing and Training  .........     .........    .......... .            14
F. Financing                      ...............   15
G.   Engineering and Construction                        . .                   16
H. Procurement ..                                                              17
I.   Construction Industry   ...           ............. .                     17
J. Maintenance..                                                               18
K.   Past Bank Group Assistance                          . .                   18
III. THE PROJECT                     . . .19
A. Objectives....                                                              19
B. Description                           . . ..                                19
C.   Status of Detailed Engineering..                                          22
D. Project Cost                        ....23
E. Financing                            ....25
F. Implementation                       ....27
G. Procurement ....28
H. Disbursements                       ....28
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION..           ...              .        .... ... ...          29
A. General... ...                                                              29
B.   Project Benefits and Beneficiaries               ..30
C.   Economic Analysis ...................... ..........                       31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..........................  33
TABLES ...........................................................   35
ANNEXES
1. Past Bank Group Assistance ..................................  48
2.  Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers to Evaluate the
Condition of the Paved Road Network and to Design Road
Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs ....      ...............  50
3. Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications of Experts for
the Highway Department in the Ministry of Equipment .......  56
4. Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
to the Ministry of Transport ............................., 58
5. Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications of Experts for
Labogenie, the National Civil Works Laboratory ............  61
CHART  -  World Bank 22296 ...........................................  13
MAPS      IBRD  15470
IBRD 15471 lR
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Ohbi (Economist), S. I. Majtenyi
(Engineer) and P. Ludwig (Senior Engineer). It is based on the information
provided by the Government and the consulting firm Gauff (Germany), and the
findings of a highway appraisal mission to Cameroon in October/November 1980
consisting of Messrs. H. R. Young (Senior Engineer), P. Ostenc (Senior Engineer),
S. I. Majtenyi and K. Ohbi. Post appraisal visits were made to Cameroon in
March and June 1981.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Cameroon, roughly triangular in shape, covers about 475,000 km2
and ranks 20th in size among the continental African States. The country's
diversified topography, numerous climatic zones, uneven distribution of
population and economic activities, the predominance of Douala as the major
industrial center and its common borders (about 4,450 km) with six countries
are of particular importance to transport. Landlocked Chad to the northeast
relies on Cameroon for its principal access to the sea while the Central
African Republic to the east is finding it increasingly attractive to trans-
port high value/low bulk goods via the shorter and quicker Cameroonian land
links instead of the Bangui-Brazzaville-Pointe Noire route.
1.02      The annual growth rate of Cameroon s population (about 8.3 million)
has accelerated from 1.8% in 1970 to 2.4% at present. However, the population
density is low (about 17.5 per km2) and its distribution is highly uneven.
Urban population is growing three to four times faster than the national
population. Douala (about 600,000 inhabitants) is the major port and dominant
commercial/industrial center followed by Yaounde (about 400,000 inhabitants),
the administrative and political capital. Their combined population of about
one million is more than doubling every decade and represents about 40% of the
urban population living in towns of over 5,000 inhabitants. Other urban areas
of note are Nkongsamba, Garoua, Maroua, Bamenda, Baffousam and Kumba. Because
the population is unevenly distributed and the country has 18 major ethnic
groups, the Government wants to develop the transportation system in general
and the road network in particular, to help achieve national unity. As
a result, the improvements in accessibility between rural and urban areas lead
to: (i) an increasing demand for rural passenger transport because urban
dwellers retain close ties with their villages; and (ii) a growth in freight
transport to supply the cities with food.
1.03      GDP growth averaged 7.3% per annum during the first three years of
the Fourth Plan (FYs 77-79) compared with the average 4.5% growth during
Second (FYs 66-71) and the Third (FYs 72-76) Plan. GNP per capita has reached
about US$560. Rapid expansion in agriculture, manufacturing and mining
supported by increased consumption and investments contributed to the growth
which is sustained by favorable prices for cocoa and coffee. This expansion
reflects, in part, the Government priority to the development of agriculture
(para. 1.17) which is expected to continue expanding. Forestry exploitation
also is expected to increase in view of the new concessions opened at Deng
Deng (near Belabo) and the favorable long term price projections for logs and
sawn woods. An oil refinery is under construction at Port Limboh, near



- 2 -
Victoria, and production is expected to start in late 1982. Current produc-
tion of offshore oil (about 5 million tons per year) is expected to double
during this decade. However, prospects for exploiting iron ore near Kribi and
bauxite at Minim and Martap (southwest of the railroad terminal at Ngaoundere)
are modest in the near future. Overall, the outlook for continued growth of
the economy appears favorable. Further expansion in agriculture, forestry and
mining will, however, be dependent, among other factors, on the maintenance,
improvement and expansion of the transport system.
B. The Transport System
1.04      The Cameroonian transport system is import-export oriented and
focused on Douala, the major port, and the road-rail Trans-Cameroon route
to Yaounde and the Chad border. The physical infrastructure consists of:
(i) about 64,800 km of roads, of which nearly half of the kilometerage is
unclassified, seasonal earth roads; (ii) 1,153 km of railway; (iii) the
dominant port of Douala and the secondary ports of Victoria, Tiko, Kribi and
the major private timber port at Campo; (iv) the seasonal port of Garoua on
the Benoue river; and (v) the international airports at Douala and Garoua,
the large domestic airport at Yaounde and a dozen smaller domestic airports.
1.05      Cotton from northern Cameroon is transported by road to Ngaoundere
and thence by rail to Douala for export, a combined distance of some 1,500 km.
Cocoa and coffee from the western highlands and the central mountains are
carried by road or by rail about 200-300 km to Douala. Palm oil, rubber and
tropical fruits are produced on the coast and require only a short haul to be
exported. Total exports of logs and sawn wood exceeded 600,000 tons in 1979.
Many of the logs exported through Douala are hauled by rail for an average
distance of nearly 400 km.
Roads
1.06      Details of the road sub-sector are given in Chapter II.
Railways
1.07      The railway, whose main lines are the Trans-Cameroon line (Douala-
Ngaoundere, 913 km) and the western line (Douala-Nkongsamba, 160 km), are
operated by Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroon (REGIFERCAM), an
autonomous state agency under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport.
The railway carries mostly timber, petroleum products, manufactured imports,
cotton and cocoa. Freight increased steadily between FYs 73-79 at an average
annual rate of 9% in ton-km and 4% in tons carried. In FY 79 freight traffic
reached nearly 1.4 million tons over an average of 405 km, or about a half
billion ton-km. The Trans-Cameroon line carried over 90% of the tonnage.
Passenger traffic, however, declined steadily from over 1.7 million passengers
in FY 73 to 1.4 million in FY 79.



-3-
1.08      Financially, REGIFERCAM is operating at a loss but steps are being
taken to solve operational and managerial problems. External donors are
financing the track realignment between Douala and Yaounde, the oldest and
most heavily used section, as well as the purchase of locomotives and rolling
stock. However, realignment of the last section of the track between Edea-
Maloume (Eseka-Maloume) is still subject to its economic feasibility.  The
large investments involved would make debt servicing critical for the railway
without giving it a competitive edge over road transport when the reconstruc-
tion of the Douala-Yaounde road is completed in 1985. Consequently, the
Government and the Bank agreed under the Fourth Railway Project that the Edea
Maloume section would be realigned only if it was economically justified.
Additionally, the Fourth Railway Project provides for measures to improve
REGIFERCAM's operations, marketing, tariffs and finances as well as studies
to review the pricing and regulatory environment of freight transport with
the objective of attaining a competitive mechanism for the allocation and
distribution of freight in the corridor.
Ports, Shipping and Inland Waterways
1.09      Douala, the principal port, handles about 90% of Cameroon's foreign
and transit trade. Between 1972-79, traffic grew at an average 8.5% annum,
with imports growing at over 10% p.a. and exports at just over 3% p.a. In
1979, nearly half of the exports were logs and sawn wood, while about a
quarter of all imports were petroleum products and 15% were clinkers. Over
the last two years, the port's capacity has been more than doubled to about
6 million tons through a program of construction, re-equipment, training
and reorganization of personnel. The substantially completed Second Douala
Port Project (Loan 1321/Credit 657 CM, US$25.0 million, 1976) assisted in the
reorganization and capacity expansion.
1.10      The secondary ports of Victoria and Tiko have been losing traffic
to Douala. Annually, the two handle between 21,000 tons to 23,000 tons of
exports; mainly palm products, cocoa, coffee and some bananas. The lighterage
port of Kribi handles about 190,000 tons of exports mainly logs from nearby
areas, and about 10,000 tons of imports. The small river port at Garoua on
the Benoue is navigable to Nigeria from mid-July to mid-October. Its annual
throughput of about 20,000 tons is evenly divided between exports (mainly
cotton) and imports (mostly fertilizers). None of these ports provide a
forseeable alternative to Douala. However, considering the long term con-
straints to the physical and economic growth of Douala, the Government has
initiated proposals to identify and evaluate a second deep water port.
The Rocher de Loup site in the Kribi region (in the southeast) is presently
favored.
1.11      The generally well managed National Port Authority (NPA), an
autonomous public corporation under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport, is in charge of operations for the ports of Douala, Kribi, Tiko,
Victoria and Garoua. NPA is financially self supporting and in FY 79 it
generated CFAF 1.7 billion (US$7.2 million) from operations.



- 4 -
1.12      Cameroon Shipping Lines S.A. (CAMSHIP), formed in 1975, has devel-
oped fairly successfully. The Government, the National Investment Company,
and Unimar, a West German shipping company, have equal shares in CAMSHIP. The
fleets six ships total about 75,000 dead weight tons. Additionally, CAMSHIP
has a chartered banana boat of 4,100 dead weight tons. CAMSHIP carried about
32% of the export tonnage (excluding banana and other fruit) and around 29% of
the import tonnage (excluding liquid cargo) between Douala and Northern Europe
in 1978. Regular operations to Western Mediterranean ports started in 1979.
CAMSHIP had a small deficit in FY 79.
1.13      CAMSHIP receives favorable treatment from the Shippers  Council of
Cameroon which controls cargo allocations. Since its reorganization in 1978,
the Council has substantial financial resources at its disposal. It receives
0.3% of the value (F.O.B.) of all trade and has started to use these funds to
study the production, marketing and transport of major commodities. The first
of such studies, on coffee, has been published.
Air Transport
1.14      The air transport industry in Cameroon comprises Cameroon Airlines
(CAMAIR) which operates scheduled passenger and cargo flights and charters,
the Armed Forces and small companies that operate charters and carry freight.
CAMAIR (formed in June 1971) is owned 75% by the Government and 25% by Air
France with which it has reciprocal marketing arrangements. It operates
domestic services (which are generally unprofitable) between Douala, Yaounde
and 12 other domestic airports, and profitable international services between
Douala, West and East Africa, and Europe. Its passenger fleet consists of a
Boeing 747, one Boeing 707, three. Boeing 737s, and one de Havilland Twin-Otter.
The cargo fleet is made up of one C107 (converted Boeing 707) and two leased
C310 Hercules.
1.15      Douala, where the runway has recently been extended, is the prin-
cipal international airport. Garoua, the secondary international airport, is
not much used. The feasibility of an international airport at Yaounde is also
being examined by the Government. Difficult terrain, high costs, problems of
splitting traffic between Douala and Yaounde as well as operating schedules
are among the hinderances to this new airport.
Model Split of Traffic
1.16      On a country-wide basis, road transport dominates all other trans-
port modes. Rail represents an alternative to road only in two corridors:
(i) Douala and Bafoussam, where road transport is the dominant mode; and
(ii) the Douala-Yaounde-Ngaoundere corridor where 75% of the through traffic
is carried by rail. (Internal waterways and domestic aviation account for
minor shares in domestic transport.)
C. Transport Priorities of the Fourth Development Plan
1.17      Since four-fifths of the Cameroonian labor force is engaged in
agriculture, the Government gives priority to its development. (The sector
produces about 40% of the GNP and about 70% of export revenues.) However, as



large areas of the country are still isolated or are served by rudimentary
infrastructure, the Fourth Development Plan recognized the need to develop
secondary and feeder roads to provide access to the domestic markets for
agricultural products. To improve transport for commodities such as cocoa,
coffee and, increasingly, timber, significant investments have been made in
ports, trunk roads and railways serving the major producing areas. Other
transport-related goals of the Fourth Plan, which expired in June 1981,
included the fostering of regional integration (para. 1.02) and developing
international links (para. 1.01).
1.18      The overall investment program under the Fourth Plan (over US$900
million in 1978 prices) was excessive vis-a-vis the absorptive capacity of
the transport sector. As a result, a number of projects in advanced planning
stages have been deferred to the Fifth Plan. Among these are: the
completion of the Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road, paving of the Bafoussam-Yaounde
road, possibility of a second deep water port and realignment of the railroad
between Eseka and Maloume (para. 1.08).
1.19      Traditionally, resource allocations to the transport sector have
been influenced by the Government's regional development policy which is aimed
at satisfying socio-political demands. Limited planning capabilities and lack
of clear priorities on whether to pave the national roads or expand the
secondary network have sometimes resulted in poor investment decisions. The
Government's limited transport planning and management capabilities are also
responsible for the weak project designs and delays in their execution.
Recent Government actions and Bank assistance aimed at improving transport
planning are reviewed below.
D. Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
1.20      The Ministry of Transport (MINT) is legally charged with non-urban
transport planning. It was created in 1970 following Bank recommendations and
was reorganized in 1976. Its responsibilities include sector management and
policy coordination. MINT needs strengthening in order to do its job properly;
especially to plan and coordinate inter modal investments.
1.21      MINT's major obligations are:  (i) to review, coordinate and screen
transport investment proposals prepared by other ministries and public agen-
cies under its supervision; (ii) to formulate sector management and opera-
tional policies and guidelines; and (iii) to review, regulate and authorize
tariff structures and rates for REGIFERCAM, NPA and CAMAIR. With only about
ten professional staff who have limited experience and inadequate exposure to
transport planning, MINT is weak and unable to effectively coordinate invest-
ments in the sector (para. 1.08). An economist, financed under the Third
Highway Project helped MINT conduct a comprehensive origin destination survey.
Another economist, financed under the Technical Assistance Project, advised
MINT's Transport Planning and Coordination Unit (TPCU) on general planning,



- 6 -
policy and coordination matters. Past technical assistance to MINT did not
fully achieve its objectives because there were no suitable counterparts.
Nevertheless continued assistance to MINT is indispensable because no other
agency is strong enough to take over all of MINT's functions without over
burdening itself. The Government has assured the Bank that it will appoint
qualified counterparts and has begun to recruit them. The proposed project
would therefore continue past technical assistance and expand its scope (para.
3.12).
1.22      The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning (MINEP) one of the
better organized and staffed ministries, has done some transport planning
in the context of development planning. However, it lacks the technical
expertise needed to evaluate the increasingly sophisticated investment deci-
sions which now need to be made in the transport sector. Therefore, to help
MINEP formulate the transport component of the Fifth Development Plan (para.
1.18) an economist/planner was financed under the Technical Assistance
project to help coordinate transport sector allocations with investments in
the demand-generating agriculture and forestry sectors. This was necessary
because MINT lacked the capacity in this field which will be developed
under the proposed project.
1.23      The Road Planning Unit (RPU) in MINEQ has now become operational and
started to plan highway investments and prioritize major road maintenance
activities. RPU is headed by an able transport economist and supported by a
full time statistician. An economist financed under the Fourth Highway
Project is helping RPU make a start in undertaking feasibility studies.
1.24      MIHEU, created in 1979, is responsible for urban transport planning.
This ministry has just begun to acquire appropriate personnel and is not
expected to become active in urban transport planning before late 1982. In
view of the rapid rate of urbanization in Cameroon this ministry is expected
to assume a key planning role in the coming decades.
E. Sectoral Development
1.25      The Bank and the Government are engaged in a dialogue on the need to
strengthen transport sector management. The Government was quite responsive
to the need for planning but initial attempts to reinforce the organization
and administrative machinery for planning and policy-making met with limited
success.  Recent developments indicate a more positive attitude.  Government                4
reorganization in late 1979 removed housing from MINEQ's control which will
enable it to concentrate on the evolving needs of the road network. MINT
plans to enlarge the scope of TPCU and upgrade it to the Division of Studies
and Planning (DSP). The proposed staffing (about 5 professionals and needed
support personnel) is adequate.
1.26      The Government planning effort to date has been based on a project-
by-project approach which was adequate when the transport investment alterna-
tives were clear cut. Now, however, more sophistication and rational procedures



- 7 -
for sectoral allocations are needed because increasingly complex investment
choices must be made to sustain Cameroon's generally healthy economic growth.
The evolution of a systematic, long-term plan has also been hampered by scarce
technical expertise. Concerned by these shortcomings, the Government has
requested Bank financing for a national transport survey (para. 3.09 ) to
provide it with a longer-term perspective of the sector's needs. DSP, with
technical assistance provided under the proposed project (para. 3.12) will
supervise the consultants who will carry out the transport survey. The survey
is expected to form the basis for the transport component of the next develop-
ment plan and influence the actual investments made in the sector in the last
two years of the Fifth Development Plan.
1.27      The Bank's sectoral objectives continue to be two-fold:  (i) to
develop the Government's transport planning capacity; and (ii) to strengthen
the management of the transport sector, particularly the efficient utilization
of existing infrastructure, coordination of transport modes, and improved
project implementation and monitoring. The proposed project will assist the
Government in meeting these objectives through technical assistance to DSP and
provision for a transport survey which will provide the Government with a blue
print of long term sector investments based on sound technical and economic
principles and a ranking of investment priorities. While technical assistance
under the Fourth Highway Project is helping RPU plan the construction and
maintenance of the network, assistance under the proposed project will help
MINEQ implement and monitor effectively the construction of the Edea-Yaounde
section of the Douala-Yaounde road (paras. 3.08, 3.10 and 3.11).
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      Cameroon, with about 65,000 km of roads, has an extensive network
judging from the 0.14 km per km2 road density which compares favorably with
neighboring countries. 1/ However, paved roads account for but 4% of the
total network and are concentrated around Douala, Yaounde and Garoua where the
network is most developed. 2/ Elsewhere, large parts of the country are still
isolated or served by the most rudimentary infrastructure (para. 1.17).
Beside the paved roads, all weather accessibility on the classified network,
which totals about 32,800 km, is possible to some extent on the engineered
national gravel roads. The rest of the classified network provides mainly dry
season access. The unclassified network consists mainly of non-engineered
seasonal tracks which are generally in poor condition and serve limited
traffic. The evolution of the network is shown below using the functional
classification system adopted in March 1979:
1/   Nigeria = 0.16 km/km2, Chad = 0.02 km/km2, Gabon = 0.02 km/km2,
Congo = 0.03 km/km2 and CAR = 0.04 km/km2.
2/   The density of paved roads is four times less in Cameroon (0.005 km/km2)
than in Nigeria (0.02 km/km2).



-8-
% Average
1972       1976        1980  Annual Growth
(km)       (km)        (km)    1972-1980
Classified Network
-    Paved Roads                  1,400       2,000       2,400        7.0
-    Gravel and Earth Roads    19,500        24,300      30,400        5.7
National               1,000       2,000       4,200       19.6
Provincial             2,300       2,800       5,900       12.5
Departmental           2,200       5,700       6,100       13.6
Rural                 14,000      14,800      14,200         -
-    Total                       20,900      26,300      32,800        5.8
Unclassified Network
-    Earth Tracks                22,000      28,000      32,000        4.8
GRAND TOTAL                           42,900      54,300      64,800        5.3
Source:   Ministry of Equipment, November 1980.
2.02      Overall, the classified network's annual growth rate of about 6%
since 1972 reflects the Government's priority for developing the road sub-
sector (paras. 1.02 and 1.17) and the economic development trends in the
country. The paved network has grown at a slightly faster annual rate (7%)
during the same period. Inasmuch as the development of traffic on individual
links has resulted in their class redesignations from time to time, the
growth rates for specific classes do not necessarily reflect trends in new
construction. The Division of Highway Maintenance (DHM) uses the classifica-
tion for budgeting road maintenance expenditures which in recent years have
been adequate (para. 2.35).
2.03      The condition of the network varies from good to poor.  The three
dominant economic regions (northern, central and western) are connected by
partly paved roads which frequently become impassable during the rains. Con-
sequently, Yaounde in the central region is isolated sometimes simultaneously
from the agriculturally rich western highlands and from the port of Douala,
especially when the railroad is also closed. Edea, approximately half way
between the two cities, is an important industrial center and generates most
of the country's electric power. Its economy depends on reliable access to
Yaounde and Douala. The existing paved road between Douala and Edea (92 km)
is in an advanced stage of deterioration and unmaintainable in its present
condition. Construction of this section on a substantially shorter alignment
started in 1980. The construction of the Edea-Yaounde section is therefore
one of the Government's highest priorities and forms part of the proposed
project.



- 9 -
B. Road Transport Characteristics
Vehicle Fleet
2.04      Estimates of the size and composition of the vehicle fleet are shown
in Table 2.1. The fleet is estimated at about 83,000 vehicles (excluding two
wheelers). As MINT keeps no reliable data on the scrappage or retirements
from service, the estimates of fleet size are open to a margin of error. The
trend in registrations, however, reflects generally, the increasing level of
economic activity in the country. Overall, annual registrations increased
from under 2,000 in 1960 to about 16,000 in 1978. The average annual growth
over the last 18 years has been around 13%. High growth for vans and trucks
and the growth in diesel fuel consumption reflects demand for freight trans-
portation. About 59% of the fleet consists of passenger cars and is located
mostly in the urban areas. Vans account for about 18% of the fleet while the
rest (23%) consists of heavy vehicles.
Fuel Consumption by Road Users
2.05      Fuel consumption grew from about a quarter million cu.m. to over
half a million cu.m. between 1973-79 (Table 2.2). During the same period,
use of diesel fuel grew more rapidly than gasoline with the respective growth
rates being 12% and 8% per year. The increase in diesel consumption conforms
with the increased truck registrations and freight transportation. The rela-
tively lower increase in gasoline consumption is attributed to the increasing
numbers of motorcycles (excluded from fleet estimates) and the more energy
efficient automobiles in the fleet. As most of the gasoline and diesel is
consumed by road vehicles, the 8% to 12% order of magnitude of annual growth
is in line with the growth of the vehicle fleet and the demand for road
transport.
2.06      The evolution of retail fuel prices in Douala is shown in Table 2.3.
The average price (Table 2.4) of gasoline is over US$2.0 per gallon, depending
on the grade and additional transport distance from Douala. Diesel retails
upwards of US$1.60 per gallon, again depending on the location and distance
from Douala.
2.07      Cameroon imports all of its refined fuel products but domestic pro-
duction is expected to come on stream about 1982. Therefore, the opportunity
costs of producing gasoline and diesel have been considered as their C.I.F.
values at Douala. A comparison of these with the domestic retail prices (net
of taxes, Table 2.5) shows that consumers pay significantly more than the
opportunity cost of either gasoline or diesel. Overall, the C.I.F. value of
gasoline represents 36% and diesel about 43% of the retail price. Import
duties account for about 22% and 14%. A fuel price stabilization levy repre-
sents about 25% of the retail price while another fifth of the retail price
goes to agricultural stabilization funds. The combined effect of the various
taxes on gasoline and diesel is estimated to have generated over US$70
million toward road user taxes in 1979.



- 10 -
Traffic
2.08      Since 1966, the Maintenance Division of the Department of Highways
(DH) has conducted traffic counts for one week, every quarter, over the
network maintained by DH. The national, principal provincial and departmental
roads are covered and give a fair indication of the historic traffic volumes,
composition and growth on specific links. As no systematic analyses of the
available data exists, traffic growth rates are better estimated indirectly
through trends in the growth of the national fleet, fuel consumption and
growth of freight transport. These are estimated to be between 10% to 12% per
year; about twice the average rate of growth of GDP during the last decade.
However, paved roads, linking significant population and economic centers,
have historically experienced higher growth rates which is confirmed by
experience on past Bank projects.
2.09      The last country-wide road traffic survey was produced by con-
sultants in 1967. MINT completed the most recent survey based on a two day
count in July 1978. The results of the countrywide origin-destination survey
financed under the Third Highway Project are available since March 1982 and
are being analyzed. Additionally, for specific projects, consultants under-
take volume counts and origin-destination surveys as a routine part of feasi-
bility studies. Overall, paved roads (about 4% of the network) carry about
45-50% of the non-urban traffic while unclassified roads (about 50% of the
network) carry only about 10% of the nonurban traffic. Of over one billion
non-urban vehicle-km travelled in 1979, about 90% were on the classified
network, the maintenance of which is the responsibility of DH.
C. Road Transport Industry
Regulations
2.10      The industry is subject to a minimum of regulations and entry is
virtually unrestricted. MINT issues operating and trade licenses. Vehicle
weights and Limensions follow the revised Highway Code of September 1979 which
restricts loads to: (i) 10 tons on a single axle; (ii) 17 tons on a double
axle; (iii) 16 tons on two axles; and (iv) 35 tons for tractor trailers. From
the point of view of maintenance, the revised axle loads represent an improve-
ment on the former limits of 13 and 19 tons on single and double axles respec-
tively. Vehicles are limited to a maximum of 2.5 m width and 4 m height.
Maximum length varies with the chassis configuration: (i) 11 m for single
chassis trucks; (ii) 15 m for articulated trucks; and (iii) 18 m for tractor.
trailers. These vehicle weights and dimensions apply only to new vehicles.
Operations and Organization
2.11      The road transport industry is competitive and characterized by
small firms owning one or a few trucks. Although it suffers from financial
instability, it provides basic services and is growing in line with domestic
demand.



- 11 -
2.12      Most freight requiring special handling is transported by either
the larger trading houses hauling on own account or specialized firms. Para-
statals such as SODE-COTON mainly haul on own account and operate sizable
fleets. Timber and petroleum are generally transported by the concessionaires
although specialized domestic firms have entered the market. International
freight to Chad and CAR is handled by domestic and foreign firms. Cameroon's
bilateral quota for Chad is handled through affiliates of SOGETRANS. The CAR
traffic is less attractive to Cameroonian haulers because the road between the
border and Bangui (500 km) is poor.
2.13      MINT authorized tariffs are generally low and do not reflect dis-
tance or surface conditions. Consequently, truck and bus services tend to be
concentrated between localities served by good roads. However, the low
tariffs discourage the full development of trucking services even on paved
roads because the owner/operators barely recover running costs from the
official tariffs. Poor management among owner/operators, low tariffs and keen
competition, explain the high rate of bankruptcies in the industry. On paved
roads, low tariffs encourage overloading among the owner/operators which would
be better controlled through action to be taken during the ongoing Fourth
Highway Project which provides for the installation and operation of permanent
weighing stations at strategic locations on paved roads. DSP, with technical
assistance by consultants, will examine the issues in the industry and the
structure and mechanism for pricing of transport during the transport survey
to be carried out under the project.
2.14      There are three truckers consortia, one each in the southern,
central and northern parts of the country. The northern consortium, SOGETRANS,
based in Ngaoundere is the most active. It controls Cameroon's share of
international traffic to Chad. Its members haul about half of the freight to
and from the Northern province and trans-shipments at Ngaoundere are allocated
between its members.
2.15      Non-urban passenger transport is controlled by another consortium
with offices in major cities. It regulates schedules, issues tickets, runs
several bus stations and lobbies on behalf of members. MINT, in addition to
setting tariffs, allocates seating capacity and licenses mechanically safe
vehicles for passenger transport. Tariffs are generally adhered to but
accompanied baggage charges are unregulated and negotiable. An estimated
10% of passengers are carried in unlicensed private carriers but the practice
is generally confined to remote areas.
D. Administration and Planning
Ministry of Transportation (MINT)
2.16      MINT's Department of Transportation (DOT) is responsible for, inter
alia, vehicle registrations and inspections, issuing drivers permits, estab-
lishing criteria for road safety, preparing road transport legislation,
studying road transport costs and authorizing tariffs. Major shortcomings



- 12 -
in the Ministry include a lack of clear perspective on the evolution of
public transport and the development of the road transport industry through
appropriate guidance, incentives or legislation. The task is made difficult
because of poor record-keeping and operational inefficiencies. Although
progress is now being made (para. 1.25) the Government has been slow in
strengthening the planning capacity of the Ministry which is a gradual and
long-term task.
Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ)
2.17      MINEQ's main responsibility is the highway sector with minor involve-
ment in technical education, and auxiliary services such as the National Civil
Engineering Equipment Pool (NCEEP) and Labogenie, the civil works laboratory
(see Organization Chart on following page). MINEQ's Department of Highway (DH)
plans, constructs and maintains the classified road network and those feeder
roads which are constructed and maintained under international agreements..
DH has a central office in Yaounde and nine provincial offices and forty two
subdivisions. DH has a de facto Central Feeder Road Unit which coordinates
the activities of different groups (local authorities, various Government
Agencies, autonomous cooperatives and private companies) involved in building
and maintaining the rest of the unclassified road network. The organization
of MINEQ could be improved by giving more authority and resources to the
divisions. The main weakness of MINEQ, however, is the lack of experienced
senior level management.
2.18      The NCEEP is an autonomous agency under a nominal control of MINEQ.
NCEEP rents heavy equipment to Government and private organizations and in
particular to the Division of Highway Maintenance (DHM). Recently the Govern-
ment appointed a Project Coordinator who, among his other duties, will liaise
between DHM and NCEEP because the existing relationship between the two
institutions is unsatisfactory. DH and NCEEP operational priorities should
coincide sufficiently to achieve the longer-term objective of encouraging
more efficient utilization of existing infrastructure. The national trans-
port survey under the proposed project would study ways and means to ensure
managerial and operational improvements and recommend appropriate procedures
to the Government for their implementation.  In the interim, the Government
has confirmed that NCEEP would seek DH clearance before renting equipment to
organizations other than MINEQ.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT
_       - _   _  _  _  _   mm _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _MINISTER OF EQUIPMENT
I                                   
F m    m ~~~~~~ m    m G E N E  R     A~~~~RL  SERTY
NATIONAL CIVIL 
IVIL                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL COLLEGE  TRAINING    SRE
TRUSTEESHIP             ENGINEERING          LABOGENIE                                                      OF TECHNOLOGY           DIVISION             SCUHOOL
EQUIPMENT POOL
HIGHWVAYS               GENERAL
DEPARTMENTS                                                                            DEPARTMENT             ADMINISTRATION
7PLANNING                  DIVISION                                              DIVISION                   TECHNICAL
UNIT                OFNEWWORKS                                       OF HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE            ADVISORS
RIDGE STUDIES                                                   CE1NTRAL
ROAD STUDS          ANDCOSTRUCTION           EUPNTAD             SERISION           FEEDER ROAD
AND CONSTRUCTO  OFFCEFROGAM OFFICE                                                           UNITICE
PROVINCIAL OFFICES     FAR                                                                                                  CENTER            SOUTH            LITTORAL
ORT                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH  WS
BMAROUA      O;GAROUA             BAMENDA         BAFOUSSAM         YAOUNDE          BERTOUA          EBOLOWA        LVICTORIA         IDOUALA
KOUSSERI        NGAOUNDERE        KUMBO            DSCHANG         BAFIA             ABONG-MBANG      KRIBI             KUMBA          BNKONGSAMBA
SUBDIVISIONS        MOKOLO           IBATI             NKAMBE          BAFANG            MONATELE         BATOURI       BSANGMELIMA    HMAMFE              WYABASSI
YAGOUA        FMEIGANGA        WMBENGWI           BANGANGTE       SNANGA-EBOKO  P YOKADOUMA                                            EDEA
TCHOLLIRE       WUM               FOUMBAN         IAKONOLINGA       NGUELEMENDOUKA
MBOUDA           MBALMAYO
MESEKA
SOtURCE: MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                             World Bank -22296



- 14 -
2.19      Labogenie, the National Civil Works Laboratory, is also an autono-
mous agency under the nominal control of MINEQ. It is supervised by a com--
mittee representing eight Government organizations and ministries. Day-to--day
operations are managed by the laboratory's director. The laboratory performs
field tests for civil works and has four divisions: (i) roads; (ii) soils and
foundations; (iii) materials, and (iv) explorations, to carry out the specific
tasks. Most of the laboratory's equipment is worn out and needs to be replaced.
It has no room for expansion at its current location and needs additional
storage, testing and office space to handle an increasing volume of work.
The laboratory has ambitious plans to develop satellites in all important
cities of the country. Due to numerous constraints, this last objective calnot
be met in the near future. The project will assist the laboratory in the
first step in its development program (para. 3.13).
E. Staffing and Training
2.20      DH has about 2,000 permanent employees, including about 30 engineers
(graduated from foreign colleges and universities), 124 technicians, 127
foremen, 290 mechanics, 226 operators and 264 drivers. The rest are mostly
clerks and laborers. DH is short of experienced managers, supervisors and
professionals. To partially alleviate this problem, FAC (France) provides
three technical assistance experts to assist DH's headquarters staff. Addi-
tionally, the proposed project will provide three more experts to strengthen
DH's project-related administrative capacity (para. 3.11). However, the
shortage of Cameroonian professionals is likely to continue until MINEQ can
attract and retain more engineers (para. 2.23).
2.21      NCEEP has about 530 permanent employees, including 16 professionals,
200 mechanics, 120 operators and drivers. NCEEP attracts better qualified
personnel than DH partially because NCEEP's salaries are higher than those of
DH and partially because management has been able to motivate staff. Of the
nine expatriates provided by FAC, six continue to assist NCEEP in its workshop
operations while three assist it with the training of operators and mechanics.
Additional assistance is provided under the Fourth Highway Project.
2.22      Labogenie's staff (8 engineers, 4 geologists, and 31 technical
assistants) is insufficient to handle the rapidly increasing volume of work.
The director is capable but some of the engineers and most of the technicians
need training in laboratory and field exploratory techniques. The proposed
project will assist Labogenie in this effort (para. 3.13).
2.23      Cameroon has been developing facilities to meet the large training
needs. About 20 civil engineers graduate each year from the National Superior
Polytechnical College. The National College of Technology (ENAT) and the
Survey School at Buea also graduate about 120 mid- and upper-level techni-
cians who are required to work for the Government for a minimum of ten years.
MINEQ's Training Division is developing courses to upgrade mid-level employees
to assume positions of greater responsibility. NCEEP operates two training



- 15 -
centers: (i) the Training Center for Mechanics in Douala which has an annual
capacity of about 30 mechanics; and (ii) the Training Center for Operators in
Yaounde which has an annual capacity of about 40 operators. Training for road
maintenance operations is being provided under the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project and the Federal Republic of Germany (para. 2.36). In addition, a
total of 32 man-years of training will be provided under the Fifth Highway
Project through Bank financing of fellowships to DH and Labogenie Staff (paras.
3.11 and 3.13).
F. Financing
Road Construction Investments
2.24      Table 2.6 shows the sources of finance available to the central
Government for road construction during FYs 72-78. Approximately half the
funds came from foreign sources, mainly in the form of loans. The investment
budget accounted for about a third of the expenditures while the remainder was
financed from outside the budget. Not included in these figures are road
construction outlays by local governments (probably an additional 10%) and by
public and private enterprises, on which data is incomplete.
2.25      During the Third Development Plan Period (FYs 72-76) Central Govern-
ment expenditure on road construction was about CFAF 36 billion (US$153 mil-
lion) in 1976 prices or CFAF 43 billion (US$183 million) in 1978 prices
(equivalent to about US$205 million in 1981 prices). Outlays fluctuated
widely and increased substantially for the last two years of the Third Plan,
i.e., 1975 and 1976, when annual outlays reached about CFAF 13 billion in 1978
prices.
2.26      The Fourth Development Plan (FYs 77-81) set a road investment target
of CFAF 94 billion (US$400 million) expressed in 1978 prices, or 43% of the
overall transport investments. This target was nearly double the estimated
road investments during the Third Plan. The plan assumed that foreign sources
of finance would cover 52% of total outlays, a similar proportion to that
during the Third Plan period. However, due to shortages of foreign finance,
domestic budget constraints and the completion of a number of major projects,
the level of investment fell off during the first two years to CFAF 11 billion
in FY 77 and CFAF 6 billion in FY 78. Data are incomplete on Government
investments in FYs79-81 but MINEP's estimates indicate that as of June 1981
only about 25% of the planned investments in roads were realized (para. 1.18);
partly because the Government's investment targets tend to be indicative.
With the development of RPU, future investment targets are expected to be
based on rational and firmer project priorities.
Road Maintenance Expenditures
2.27      Road maintenance costs, financed under the recurrent budget, re-
mained approximately constant in real terms during the Third Plan Period at
about CFAF 3.0 billion (US$11 million) p.a. During that period the classified
network maintained by the Government increased substantially, and the allowance



- 16 -
per kilometer for road maintenance actually decreased by about 30% in real
terms. The percentage of total road expenditures allocated to road mainte--
nance also decreased from about 40% to 20% between FYs 72-76. The Government
has, however, begun to take steps to reverse this process as required by
a covenant under the Fourth Highway Project and adequate funds (over
CFAF 200,000/km) are now being allocated.
Road User Charges
2.28      Road user charges are quite high and the annual tax on vehicles has
recently been doubled. Taxes and custom duties on new vehicles (70% to 80% on
private cars and 50% to 65% on other vehicles), spare parts and tires (50% to
60%) are the main source of revenue. Annual tax on private cars varies with
engine size up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 but is only paid for vehicles
less than four years old. The tax on vans, buses and trucks is CFAF 30,000,
provided the vehicle is not more than six years old. The other major source
of revenue is tax on fuel which in October 1979 averaged about CFAF 52/litre
for gasoline and CFAF 36/litre for diesel.
2.29      During the Third Development Plan, revenues from the highway sector
were estimated at CFAF 74 billion (Table 2.7) in 1976 prices. During the same
period, expenditures on construction (CFAF 36 billion in 1976 prices) and
maintenance (CFAF 15 billion) totalled CFAF 51 billion or about 70% of revenue.
During FYs 77-78, outlays on road construction (about CFAF 19.9 billion) and
maintenance (about CFAF 6.1 billion) are estimated at about CFAF 26 billion
compared with the road revenues of about CFAF 44.5 billion, indicating that
aggregate road revenues are more than adequate.
G.   Engineering and Construction
2.30      Cameroon's variety of climatic, topographic and geotechnical condi-
tions influence road design, construction and maintenance. The topography
is flat in the western coastal areas, rolling in the north and east and
mountainous in the central and north-western parts of the country. Construc-
tion materials are generally poor: laterites have a high plasticity and the
abrasion characteristics of crushed stone are often around the limit of
acceptability. The coastal area is swampy and subject to intensive precipita-
tion. The northern part of the country is savannah with precipitation being
a small fraction of that in the coastal areas. In the coastal and central
areas, construction and maintenance activities are limited by the six-month
rainy season but are less restricted in the north. General geological and
hydrological information is available from earlier surveys, but data at spe-
cific locations may not be available which may make it difficult to estimat,e
peak stream and river flows.
2.31      The Division of New Works (DNW) within DH is responsible for the
design and construction of roads. The DNW employs consultants for major
design works and supervision of construction. As DNW does not have its own
specifications and standards for geometric, pavement and structural designs,
it relies on French specifications which are adapted by consultants for specific



- 17 -
projects. Pavements sometimes are designed and/or constructed to standards
which are too low; possible reasons include: (i) underestimation of traffic;
(ii) poor quality control during construction; and (iii) materials specifica-
tions which may not be met economically. The design for the proposed project
takes account of these factors.
H.   Procurement
2.32      Contracts for major civil work projects are awarded on the basis
of prequalification and competitive bidding by contractors and in the case of
works financed by international agencies, subject to procurement guidelines
of the agency involved. Contractors registered in Cameroon are classified
according to their capacity and are allowed to bid only on works consistent
with their capacity. The DNW prepares the prequalification and bidding
documents and the Central Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches) is
in charge of prequalification and calling for and evaluating bids. In excep-
tional cases, the Central Tender Board may decide to negotiate a contract with
a single consulting firm or a contractor. The DNW is represented at Board
meetings. Contracts for major consultancy services have also begun to be
awarded following prequalification and competitive bidding by consulting
firms. The Central Tender Board does not have enough personnel or streamlined
procedures to handle its increasing scope of responsibilities. This situation
combined with a rigid interpretation of guidelines, sometimes cause delays in
procurement.
I.   Construction Industry
2.33      The major contractors are foreign firms.  About 350 local firms are
engaged in building construction and now, some of them are bidding on small
road construction contracts. Most of the domestic firms are in the small-to-
medium capacity range and include one large domestic firm (Nanga et Cie); they
have no experience in executing large paved road construction projects.
During preparation of the Fourth Highway Project, a consultant financed by the
Bank reviewed the status of the domestic contractors and recommended an action
program to upgrade the domestic construction industry. Consultants have been
engaged to assist the Government on these recommendations. Domestic contrac-
tors can obtain credit for equipment procurement under favorable terms and
numerous training opportunities are available to them. The Government awards
small culvert and laterite road construction as well as paved road resealing
contracts to domestic contractors. In coming years, the domestic construction
industry is expected to participate in urban street construction, water supply
extension, and sewerage works in addition to building construction. The Bank
approved two projects to help the small and medium capacity firms. The first,
US$3.0 million to the Cameroon Development Bank for the "Small and Medium
Scale Enterprise Project" (Cr. 575-CM) was implemented between 1975-81. The
second, approved in November 1980, is a follow-up project which provides a
US$15.0 million line of credit to the Cameroon Development Bank and the
National Assistance Center of Small and Medium Enterprises.



- 18 -
J. Maintenance
2.34      The DHM within DH is responsible for maintaining all classified and
some unclassified roads. The present road maintenance organization dates from
1968 when the Government created NCEEP from the existing DH road equipment and
repair facilities with additional new road maintenance equipment provided by
FAC. At that time, FAC also reinforced DH and NCEEP staffs by adding several
technical assistance experts, and the Government adequately funded road main-
tenance operations.  The situation deteriorated, however, when FAC began to
phase out technical assistance, the length of the road network increased,
budget allocations for road maintenance per unit length decreased in real
terms and, as a consequence, NCEEP had no funds to renew its road maintenance
equipment. Under the Fourth Highway Project, a major effort is being made
to upgrade road maintenance, replace worn out equipment and train equipment
operators, mechanics and foremen. After initial difficulties, includiing
delays in appointing consultants project implementation started in late
1980.
2.35      The road maintenance budget, which is now adequate, has been in-
creased substantially and will permit a rational evaluation of needs and the
allocation of funds. The maintenance budget grew as follows during the past
eight years:
Highway Maintenance
(in current CFAF millions)
Fiscal Year           1972          1976          1980           1981
Maintenance          1,910         3,170         6,449          7,120
2.36      The unclassified feeder roads network is still the responsibility
of various Government agencies and local authorities, but DH's Central Feeder
Roads Unit coordinates their activities. As a step in the new maintenance
effort, the Federal Republic of Germany has started a project to assist in
maintaining and repairing the paved Figuil-Maroua-Maltam road (300 km). This
work is being expanded under the Fourth Highway Project.
K. Past Bank Group Assistance
2.37.     The first three Bank highway projects concentrated on the construc-
tion of trunk roads while the fourth was directed at strengthening the road
maintenance capacity. The Bank has also financed feeder roads construction
in line with the evolving needs of the country. Seven projects have been or
are being implemented in the sub-sector; a summary of these projects is
provided in Annex I.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government
in reconstructing a section of the economically important Douala-Edea-Yaounde
road, to improve the Government's capacity for road rehabilitation and trans-
portation planning and coordination, and to lay the foundation of a maintenance
and rehabilitation program for the country's paved road network.
B. Description
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project consists of:
(i) civil works:
(a)  construction of the Edea-Yaounde section (181 km) of the
Douala-Yaounde Road; and
(b) construction of new buildings for Labogenie.
(ii) consultant services:
(a) to supervise construction of the Edea - Yaounde road;
(b) to prepare a national transport survey; and
(c) to evaluate the existing paved road network.
(iii)  technical assistance to strengthen:
(a) the Highway Department in the Ministry of Equipment;
(b) the Planning Department in the Ministry of Transportation; and
(c) the National Civil Works Laboratory (Labogenie).
Road Construction
3.03      Reconstruction of the Douala-Yaounde Road has the highest priority
in the Government's current investment program. Detailed engineering of the
road was started in 1977 under the Fourth Development Plan when the Government
engaged consultants Gauff (Germany) to carry out the engineering for a four
lane divided highway. However, the expected traffic volume did not justify
theser high standards at this time, and the Government, in consultation with



- 20 -
the Bank, instructed the consultants to change the design to a two lane paved
road, with the option of adding two further lanes at a later stage.  The Bank
financed the revised study under the Fourth Highway Project. At a co-donors'
meeting held in Brussels in May 1980, the Government used the revised study,
which was submitted by the consultants in early 1980, to obtain financing
commitments for the entire road.
3.04      For technical and financing purposes, the Government divided the
Douala-Yaounde Road into two sections: Douala-Edea (65 km) and Edea-Yaounde
(181 km). Section I from Douala to Edea comprises lots 1 to 5. Since Lot 1
(3 km) is still within the urban area of Douala it was not included in the
calculation of the cost and the economic justification of the Douala-Yaounde
Road. During negotiations the Government agreed to award all contracts for
the construction of Section I by December 31, 1982. For most of the lots
construction is underway.
3.05      Section II from Edea to Yaounde comprises lots 6 to 9 which are
financed by six different agencies. The Kuwait Fund, the Islamic Bank and
the Abu Dhabi Fund, finance construction of lot 6 (41 km). The Bank finances
construction of lot 7 (65 km). The Kingdom of the Netherlands and private
sources in the Netherlands signed a loan agreement with the Government in
June 1981 after which a contract was awarded to a Dutch joint venture for the
construction of lot 8 (62 km), also in June 1981. Construction on this lot
has started. Finally, the Government of Canada has signed an agreement to
finance the construction of lot 9 (13 km). During negotiations the Government
agreed to inform the Bank of any proposed modification of design standards or
extensions of construction deadlines for any lot of the Douala-Yaounde Road.
3.06      The existing laterite-surfaced road between Edea and Yaounde follows
a poor alignment and is frequently closed to traffic during the rainy season.
Even in the dry season, the road is in poor condition and is difficult to
maintain given the heavy traffic which calls for a paved surface. The new
road is located mainly on a new alignment through lightly inhabited country.
It is about 6 km shorter than the existing road. From Edea, the alignment is
in flat terrain gradually increasing to hilly in lot 6 and becomes mountainous
towards the east end of lot 7 and through much of lot 8. Lot 9 is in rolling
terrain and comprises a connector leading into Yaounde and a bypass around the
city. Construction of lot 7 will follow in its entirety a new alignment.
There are three small bridges on this lot. The proposed design standards
(Table 3.1) are consistent with the standards used for the Douala-Edea Road
and other paved roads in Cameroon, and are appropriate for the forecast
traffic. They are based on a design speed of 80 km/h and a maximum gradient
of normally 6% which exceptionally may be as high as 8.5%. The pavement
will consist of a crushed stone sub-base, an asphalt bound crushed stone
base, and a surface of bituminous concrete.  The pavement will be 7.40 m wide
with 2 m shoulders.



- 21 -
Building Construction
3.07      A new building is needed to expand Labogenie's headquarters in
Yaounde as the existing facility is too small to ensure that equipment is
housed properly. The site for the new building has been expropriated and
plans are being prepared. In Douala, the existing laboratory needs an
extension for which the plans have been completed. Procurement of laboratory
equipment will be subject to the substantial completion of the new buildings.
Consultant Services
3.08      Construction Supervision.  To permit better coordination during
the construction of Section II, the Government with the consent of the co-
donors, has requested the Bank to finance the supervision of construction of
all the lots in the Section (lots 6-9). During negotiations, the Government
agreed that consultants will be employed to supervise construction of lots 6-9
during the entire construction period. Whereas supervising consultants have
been engaged for lot 8, the appointment of consultants for lots 6, 7 and 9
constitute a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.09      Transportation Survey.  The terms of reference prepared by the
Ministry of Transport for a national transportation survey have been agreed
by the Bank and the Government is seeking a firm of consultants to provide
these services. The survey will be carried out by consultants under the
responsibility of the Division of Studies and Planning (DSP) within MINT and
in close cooperation with the MINEQ (RPU). Its objective is to provide a
long-term perspective on the sector and rational criteria for sector policy
formulation and implementation. The project will finance the survey which is
estimated to require about nine staff-years of consultants services. During
negotiations the Government agreed to employ consultants under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and to exchange views with the Bank on the
results of the survey.
3.10      Evaluation of the Paved Road Network.  The Fourth Highway Project
addressed the maintenance of the laterite roads and only the routine mainte-
nance of the paved roads. The expanding network and the increasing traffic on
the paved roads now necessitate the development of a maintenance policy for
these roads. The proposed project will provide 12 staff-years of consulting
services to measure typical axle loads and to evaluate the level and composi-
tion of traffic and the condition of the paved road network by laboratory
testing of sample cores and pavement deflection measurements. The study will
recommend an optimum maintenance strategy for periodic maintenance, define the
useful life of these roads and determine when and to what standards they
should be rehabilitated or reconstructed. The study will be carried out in
close cooperation with Labogenie so as to establish within Labogenie the
capacity to perform pavement evaluation on a continuing basis. During nego-
tiations, the terms of reference (Annex 2) were agreed upon with the Govern-
ment, which also agreed that consultants will be employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.



- 22 -
Technical Assistance
3.11      Highway Department.  To alleviate the problem of staff shortages
(para. 2.20) and to facilitate the processing of contracts and the supervi-
sion of consultants and contractors, the project provides a team of three
engineers for four years (Annex 3). The Government has selected consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, and agreed during negotiations to nominate a counter-
part to each of the three experts. The appointment of the team and nomination
of the counterparts constitute a condition of loan effectiveness. To maintain
and update the levels of Highway Department staff the project provides 24
man-years of fellowship for staff that already has been employed at least for
3 to 5 years in the department.
3.12      Ministry of Transportation.  The Ministry of Transportation intends
to upgrade its Transport Planning and Coordination Unit (TPCU) to a Division
of Studies and Planning (DSP) which will be the Ministry's principal transport
planning, policy formulation and coordination agency. Since the Government's
intention to increase its transport planning and coordination capacity is
justified and appropriate, the project will assist the Government in its
effort by providing five staff-years of economist/planner services and two
staff-years of unallocated services for short-term experts, who would advise
DSP on such matters as the improvement of operating procedures and the estab-
lishment of a statistical unit. The Government has provided DSP's work
program, and the outline terms of reference (Annex 4) have been agreed upon.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that a counterpart to each of the
experts will be nominated prior to the arrival of the experts.
3.13      Labogenie.  To assist the national laboratory with the first phase
of its long-term expansion program (para. 2.19) in strengthening its capacity
for handling field and laboratory work, the project provides nine staff-years
of technical assistance, eight one-year fellowships, procurement of laboratory
equipment and construction of laboratory and office space in Yaounde and
Douala. The terms of reference and qualifications of the experts (Annex 5)
were confirmed during negotiations. The laboratory personnel will be sent to
overseas schools and institutions to upgrade their technical skills. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed the preliminary list of laboratory
equipment proposed by Labogenie of which a final version will be submitted
before June 30, 1983 for comments by the Bank and the experts employed under
the project. The Government confirmed also that Labogenie staff for the
fellowships will be selected not later than December 31, 1982.
C. Status of Detailed Engineering
3.14      Consultants Gauff carried out the detailed engineering of the
Douala-Yaounde Road in early 1980. According to French engineering practiceI,
some of the final details were left undesigned (e.g., foundation details,
steel reinforcement for concrete structures) and are to be completed by the



- 23 -
successful bidder. Pavement design will also be completed during the early
stages of execution of the works when the various soil types can be clearly
defined. This practice is normal in francophone countries and the 10%
physical contingency included in the cost estimates should cover possible
quantity variations.
D. Project Cost
3.15      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about
US$219 million, with a foreign cost component of about US$170 million. The
proposed Bank loan will finance the foreign exchange costs of the construction
of lot 7, and all other project components with the exception of civil works
for lot 6, 8 and 9. The Government has exempted all construction, consultant
and technical assistance contracts from taxes. Thus, the component of local
taxation is negligible and has not been considered in the estimates. Detailed
cost estimates are as follows:



- 24 -
US$ million at January 1982 prices
Foreign as Proposed
Local  Foreign  Total  % of Total    Loan
1.   Construction
Lot 6 (40.4 km)                 6.9     23.1    30.0        77            -
Lot 7 (65.3 km)                10.6     35.7    46.3        77          35.7
Lot 8 (61.8 km)                12.0     40.3    52.3        77            -
Lot 9 (13.0 km)                 4.3     14.6    18.9        77            -
2.   Supervision of Lots
from 6 to 9
Edea-Yaounde (180.5 km)         2.0      8.1    10.1        80           8.1
3.   Technical Assistance
(a) Highway Department.
Tinistry of Equipment    0.3        1.4      1.7      82           1.4
(b) Planning Department,
Ministry of Transpor-
tation                    0.2       0.8      1.0      80           0.8
4.   Fellowships for Highway
Department                      0.1      0.6      0.7       90           0.6
5.   Development of Labogenie
(a)  Building construction    0.6        1.3      1.9      70           1.3
(b)  Equipment                 0.2       1.7      1.9      90           1.7
(c)  Fellowships                 -       0.2      0.2      100          0.2
(d)  Technical assistance       0.3      1.0      1.3       77          1.0
6.   Preinvestment Studies
(a)  Transportation plan       0.3       1.0      1.3      78           1.0
(b) Evaluation of paved
roads (2,400 km)          0.3       1.4      1.7      82           1.4
Total excluding contingencies       38.1    131.2   169.3        77          53.2
Physical contingencies
(10% on items 1, 5(a), 5(b))       3.5      11.7    15.2       77           3.9
Price contingencies                  7.7      26.6    34.3       78          11.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                49.3    169.5   218.8        77          69.0
Front End Fee on Banks Loan            -       1.0      1.0     100           1.0
Total Financing Required            49.3    170.5   219.8        78          70.0



- 25 -
3.16      The base cost estimates have been derived as follows:
(i) Road Construction: cost estimates are based on bids for lots 6,
7 and 9 and the contract amount for lot 8.
(ii)  Building Construction:  costs are based on per m2 prices for
similar buildings constructed recently.
(iii) Laboratory Equipment: a preliminary list of equipment needed for
the laboratory established by Labogenie and priced according to
supplier quotations.
(iv)  Consultant Services and Technical Assistance:  The cost of con-
struction supervision is based on priced proposals by consultants.
This represents about 70 staff-years of consultant services at
about US$12,000 per staff-month including salary costs, fees,
international travel, and local subsistence and transport, the
going rate of similar services in Cameroon. The cost of the
transportation survey is based on 9 staff-years at US$12,000 per
staff-month. The same estimate also applies to the pavement
evaluation study (12 staff-years), and the technical assistance to
the Highway Department (12 staff-years), the Ministry of Transport
(7 staff-years) and to Labogenie (9 staff-years).
3.17      An allowance of 10% has been added for physical contingencies and
the price contingencies are based on Bank guidelines.  During negotiations,
the cost estimates were agreed in the light of the latest available prices.
E. Financing
3.18      A part of the foreign cost financing will be provided by a Bank loan
of US$70.0 million of which about US$48.4 million will be for the road con-
struction component. In addition, co-donors participating in the construction
part would finance US$91.5 million while the Government would finance the
remaining US$9.0 million of the foreign cost financing. The Government would
also provide all the local cost for both the construction and non-construction
components. The following are the details of the financing plan.



- 26 -
A.   Construction
Estimated
Cost      Loan Amount
Lot Number  Length km   US$ million  US$ million  Financing Agency
6         40.4          41.2         31.4       Kuwait/Islamic Bank/Abu
Dhabi Fund
7         65.3          62.8         48.4       IBRD
8         61.8           64.4        43.7       The Netherlands
9         13.0          23.7         16.4       CIDA
Subtotal       180.5         192.1        139.9
B.   Other Project Items    26.7           20.6       IBRD
TOTALS                       218.8        160.5
3.19      To realize the economic benefits of the project construction com-
ponents, it is essential that construction of all lots be completed at about
the same time. Financing arrangements for lots 6, 8 and 9 of Section 2 have
been completed and the effectiveness of the loans for these sections by the
co-financiers constitutes a condition of effectiveness of the Bank's loan.
As noted in para. 3.04, work on Section 1 is already underway. The financing
for that section is secured and the financing plan is as follows:
Estimated
Cost      Loan Amount
Lot Number  Length km   US$ million  US$ million   Financing Agency
1         3.3           22.8         21.8        BAD/BADEA
2        14.2           23.2         20.3        France
3         2.3           11.4           6.3       The Netherlands
3 a     bridge          10.0          7.0        FED
4        40.6           45.3         39.9        France
5         4.4           11.3         10.2        France
TOTALS         64.8          124.0        105.5
The total estimated cost of Sections 1 and 2 is US$316.1 million of which
US$245.4 million will be provided by external financing agencies including
the Bank. In view of Cameroon's economic outlook, in particular its expected
oil revenues, the Government should have no difficulties to finance the
balance of US$70.7 million for the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road and
US$6.1 million for the other project items. The above financing arrangements
were confirmed during negotiations.



- 27 -
F. Implementation
3.20       The Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ) will have the responsibility
for the implementation of all project components with the exception of the
transportation survey and the technical assistance to the Division of Studies
and Planning for which the Ministry of Transport (MINT) will be responsible.
3.21      MINEQ will be assisted by consultants in the project implementation,
in particular in the supervision of the construction of Section II, carried
out by contractors. The following chart shows the expected schedule of imple-
mentation of each component of the project; this schedule was confirmed with
the Government during negotiations.
TIMING OF COMPONENT ACTIVITIES
1981       1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
Road Construction
- Lot 6-
- Lot 7-                                         ---                        -
- Lot 8                                          -
- Lot 9                             _
Technical Assistance
- Highway Department                             -
- Planning Department                      _
Fellowships for Highway                            -
Department
Labogenie
- Bldg. Construction                             -
- Fellowships
- Equipment
- Technical Asst.                                                          _
Transportation Plan                                -
Evaluation of Paved Roads                           -



- 28 -
3.22      The technical assistance provided to Labogenie will review the
personnel requirements of the laboratory and propose candidates for overseas
studies, study the equipment needs of the laboratory and finalize the procure-
ment list. The experts will assist Labogenie's Director in formulating a
practicable program and to carry out its implementation.
G. Procurement
3.23      Procurement under the project will be in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The following procedures would apply:
Project Element                Procurement Procedure
Road Construction               International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Building Construction          Local Competitive Bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory.
Laboratory Equipment            Equipment items, not exceeding US$10,000 and
accumulative not to exceed US$300,000 may be
procured through limited international tenderiLng
on the basis of offers from at least three
suppliers. Major equipment under ICB.
Consultant Services and         Consultants short-listed by Government, to
Technical Assistance to         submit proposals.  The qualifications and
the Highway Department         experience of the consultants selected as wel]L
as the terms and conditions of contract to be
approved by the Bank.
Technical Assistance to        Where Government chooses to use consulting firms
the MINT and Labogenie          for the provision of technical assistance, the
above procedure applies. If Government decides
to hire individual experts, final selection
based on the experts' curriculum vitae, and
terms and conditions of contract to be subject
to Bank approval.
The above procurement procedures were discussed and agreed upon with the
Government during negotiations.
H. Disbursements
3.24      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Civil Works                     77% of total cost
Equipment                       100% of foreign cost
Consultant Services &
Technical Assistance          80% of total cost
Fellowships                     90% of total cost



- 29 -
An amount o-: US$16.0 million would remain unallocated. To allow for the
financing of the cost of supervision by consultants of the ongoing construc-
tion of lot 8 (para. 3.05) and for the cost of consultants to provide assis-
tance to the DH (para 3.11), the project includes an amount of maximum US$1.5
million for the retroactive financing of these expenditures incurred after
February 1, 1982. All disbursement applications would be fully documented.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 3.2. Disbursements
will be somewhat faster compared to the disbursement profile for the transpor-
tation sector in Cameroon because bids for lot 7, the major item of Bank
financing in the project, have been evaluated and construction of lot 7 could
thus start shortly after Board presentation.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      Upgrading of the Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road has high priority (para.
2.03). Its paving would provide all weather road access in the country's
dominant transport corridor, increase capacity to accommodate the growing
demand for transport and link, by road, the port of Douala to the capital.
Currently, the poor condition of the unpaved Edea-Yaounde section makes it
virtually impassable during the rains, and, during the rest of the year,
transport costs are high.
4.02      The economic evaluation has been carried out in two stages:  (i) for
the whole of the Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road; and (ii) for the Douala-Edea and
Edea-Yaounde sections. Project costs include: (i) base construction costs;
(ii) physical contingencies; and (iii) supervision of works. The analysis
is based on the consultants' feasibility study and updated to reflect the
findings of the appraisal and post appraisal missions.
4.03      Distance savings, i.e., avoided vehicle operating costs form the
major basis for the evaluation of the Douala-Edea section. The existing road
is virtually unmaintainable because of its advanced deterioration. Heavy and
costly maintenance, required more and more frequently, has not been able to
arrest the accelerating rate of deterioration. The technical options consist
of (i) either rehabilitating and reconstructing the section on the existing
alignment; or (ii) construction on a substantially new alignment. While the
former option is estimated to be about a third less costly, the latter results
in 36 km of distance savings and is the preferred technical and economic
solution.
4.04      The evaluation of the Edea-Yaounde section is based on road user
savings. The existing earth road provides mainly dry season access. When the
road is opened to traffic in 1986, about 1,700 vehicles a day are expected to
use it. Over 70% of these vehicles would be the normal traffic. This traffic
load would be beyond the physical capacity of a laterite road especially
because of the long rainy season and difficult terrain through much of the
Edea-Yaounde section. Under these conditions, the maintenance of the existing
road would be impracticable.



- 30 -
4.05      The economic rate of return on construction investments in the
entire Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road is a satisfactory 26%. A 20% increase in
construction costs would lower the rate of return to an acceptable 22%. The
estimated rates of return for the Douala-Edea section is 28%, and 24% for
Edea-Yaounde, the proposed project road. Details of the economic analysis
are shown in tables 4.1 through 4.3.
B. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.06      The bulk of quantified benefits for the Edea-Yaounde section are
due to road user savings resulting from the upgraded road conditions. Overall,
about 75% of the benefits accrue to normal traffic and result from vehicle
operating cost savings. Benefits to generated and diverted air passenger
traffic make up another 10% of the total while the rest are from savings in
road maintenance costs. The net benefits attributed by consultants to traffic
(representing about 10% of the total road traffic) diverted from the railroad
to the road have been excluded from the analysis considering the distances
over which this diversion would take place and the nature of the commodities
involved. Benefits due to diverted air passenger traffic have been prorated
on the basis of length relative to the complete road and have been assumed to
stagnate in 1990 with no corresponding increase in growth thereafter.
4.07      Unquantified benefits would include cargo and passenger journey time
savings, avoided road closures, improved quality and comfort of passenger
transport and increased level of economic activity in the entire corridor.
Although these benefits have not been quantified, they could be substantial.
4.08      The Edea-Yaounde section is expected to have widespread beneficia-
ries: it would provide reliable year-round access and reduce transport costs
in the corridor linking two major urban centers of the country. Immediate
beneficiaries would include the road users: automobile owners, passenger
transporters and truckers. As the transport industry is competitive, some of
the reduced transport costs are expected to be passed on to consumers in the
form of reduced costs and to small farmers in the form of increased farm gate
prices for regional commodities such as cocoa. All weather access would also
remedy the occasional shortages of staples and fish (from Douala) which occur
because the road is intermittantly closed in the rainy season. In the final
analysis, the country as a whole would benefit from a reliable transport
facility and reduced costs.
4.09      Additionally, the project is designed to have an impact on institu--
tional development. Continuation of technical assistance to MOT is expected
to increase the ministry's planning and sector management capacity through
the transfer of planning technology and the improvement in records management.
The proposed national transport survey would be the basis for developing a
systematic long term perspective on the evolving needs of the sector, deline-
ating future project priorities, providing a rational basis for intrasectoral
investment allocations and training Cameroonian counterparts in formulating,
implementing and monitoring transport plans. Technical assistance to



- 31 -
Labogenie would assist in the development of this long range approach and
provide effective support for the control of civil works. The implementation
of the pavement monitoring and evaluation study would provide DH with capacity
to improve paved road maintenance through timely periodic intervention which
would help to postpone costly reconstruction on some of the network. Finally,
technical assistance to DH would be instrumental in ensuring the proper
control and execution of the construction part of the project.
C. Economic Analysis
4.10      Existing traffic volumes are based on the consultants' origin-
destination surveys (conducted in April 1979), the consultants' feasibility
study and the analysis of DH traffic counts for 1975 through 1980 on specific
sections of the Edea-Yaounde Road. Freight transport data were used as a
check on the base volumes of trucks. The estimated traffic on the road in
the opening year is:
Estimated Traffic (vpd) in 1986
Normal    Generated    Diverted 1/   Total
Air    Rail
Passenger Car             502          62         170      -      734
Minibus/Van               318           -           8     14      340
Bus                         -           -           -     14       14
Medium Truck              325          40           -    145      510
Heavy Truck               123          16           -      -      139
Total                 1,268         118         178    173   1,737
1/   Consultants estimates.
Source: GAUFF (Consultants), MINE and mission estimates 1980.
4.11      Normal traffic growth is estimated indirectly through the national
trends in motor vehicle registrations, fuel consumption and other indicators
such as the evolution of GDP and growth trends on past Bank-assisted projects
in Cameroon. Based on these trends, the annual growth rate of 10% through
1990 and 6% thereafter is retained and appears reasonable. DH volume counts
were useful to check the composition of traffic.
4.12      Generated traffic is estimated based on the consultants demand/cost
elasticity model using marginal cost differences but has been revised down-
wards from the original estimates to reflect lower than the consultants'
estimated savings from paving the road. Estimates of traffic diverted from
the rail and air are based on the consultants' feasibility study.



- 32 -
4.13      Vehicle operating costs were established by consultants (Table 4.4)
and have been modified to reflect the increased fuel prices since January
1979. All economic costs and benefits are calculated in 1980 values and are
net of taxes.
4.14      Because numerous segments of the existing Edea-Yaounde road have
capacity constraints even for the present traffic, are intermittently closed,
are inadequately drained and are below grade, the "without" project scenario
assumes rehabilitation in 1982. Periodic regravelling is conservatively
estimated at once every three years. Estimated routine maintenance reflects
engineering judgment and the intensity of traffic. The "with" project
scenario includes overlays every eight years in addition to routine mainte-
nance, including patching, sealing cracks and drainage maintenance. The
economic life of the project road is twenty years and the opening year
is 1986. Value of travel time saved, distance savings (resulting from a
negligible decrease in length after construction) and salvage value have
been excluded from the analysis.
4.15      Based on project costs and benefits, the best estimate of the
economic rate of return is 24% and the net present value, discounted at 12%,
the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Cameroon, is about US$37 million.
Because some elements of the analysis may be less reliable than others,
sensitivity tests have been done to measure how much they vary the rate of
return. The tests address: (i) possible cost underestimation of proposed
works; (ii) the possibility that in addition to (i), rehabilitation of the
existing road and periodic maintenance also could have been underestimated;
(iii) the possibility that road user savings may be overestimated; (iv) the
possibility that air passengers would not divert to the road; (v) the possi-
bility that base traffic could have been overestimated; and (vi) the risk that
the quantified costs and benefits of the project do not reflect efficiency
criteria which would mean that net benefits may be biased.
4.16      The following results were obtained:
Scenario                                             Economic Rate of Return
Best estimate                                                24%
20% construction cost increase                               21%
20% increase in paved road construction and periodic
maintenance costs with a similar increase in unpaved
road periodic maintenance costs                             20%
Additionally, road user saving decrease by 20%                18%
No benefits from diverted air traffic                         24%
Traffic decreases by 20%                                      21%
Costs and benefits valued at efficiency prices
with labor-assigned shadow wages                             26%



- 33 -
The sensitivity tests indicate that construction is economically feasible
under various reasonable combinations of adverse conditions. Separate
statistical tests on the expected net present value, assuming reasonably
beneficial and adverse outcomes of the project, also indicate similarly
positive results, based on which, it is extremely unlikely that the rate of
return would be below 12%.
4.17      Apart from the possible quantity variations outlined in para. 3.14,
the works have few technical risks as they are based on sound engineering
principles, involve normal road construction practices and will be supervised
by competent consultants. But, there is a risk that the proposed technical
assistance to MOT may not achieve its intended objectives due to slow imple-
mentation. Nonetheless the proposed technical assistance would be indis-
pensable for the development of DSP's planning capacity because MOT intends to
turn it into its principal planning and policy coordinating arm. Additionally,
MOT and the Bank have already agreed on the terms of reference for the proposed
technical assistance and the transport survey.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, the following was discussed and agreed upon
with the Government and incorporated as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(i) the construction of all lots of the Douala-Edea Road would be
contracted by December 31, 1982, according to acceptable engi-
neering standards; the Bank should be informed of any modifica-
tion of design standards and extension of construction deadlines
(paras. 3.04 and 3.05);
(ii)  procurement for laboratory equipment will be subject to the sub-
stantial completion of new laboratory buildings (para. 3.07);
(iii) consultants will be appointed under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank to: (a) supervise construction of lots 6-9 during the
entire construction period (para. 3.08); (b) carry out the trans-
portation survey (para. 3.09); and (c) evaluate the paved road
system (para. 3.10);
(iv)  results and recommendations of the transportation survey will be
discussed with the Bank (para. 3.09);
(v) counterparts will be nominated prior to the arrival of each expert
for the technical assistance to the Ministry of Transportation
(para. 3.12); and
(vi)  the Government will present to the Bank for review and comment (a)
before June 30, 1983, a final list of equipment to be purchased for
Labogenie (para. 3.13); and (b) not later than December 31, 1982, a
list of fellowships for laboratory personnel (para. 3.13).



- 34 -
5.02      During negotiations, the following items were reviewed and confirmed
with the Government:
(i) the terms of reference for technical assistance for Ministry of
Transport (para. 3.12) and for Labogenie (para. 3.13);
(ii) a preliminary list of the required laboratory equipment proposed
by Labogenie (para. 3.13);
(iii) cost estimates for the project (para. 3.17);
(iv) the financing arrangements for the project and the Douala-Edea road
construction (para. 3.19); and
(v)  the implementation schedule for each element of the project (para.
3.21).
5.03      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)  the appointment of consultants to supervise construction of lots 6,
7 and 9 (para. 3.08);
(ii) the appointment of a team of three engineers to assist the Highway
Department and the nomination of counterparts (para. 3.11); and
(iii) the effectiveness of the Loans by the co-financiers for
Section 2 (para 3.19).
5.04      The proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$70 million equi-
valent on standard Bank terms to the Government of the United Republic of
Cameroon.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Motor Vehicle Registrations, 1960-1979
(Excluding Two Wheelers)
Year           Passenger Cars          Vans          Trucks         Buses          Special Purpose           Total
1960                830                550             190           180                 100                1,850
1965              1,850                800             370           210                 250                3,480
1970              3,900                 -            1,000           300                 300                5,500
1971              3,700                 -              700           400                 200                5,000
1972              2,200              1,100             700           400                 200                4,600
1973              5,500              1,700             700           400                 200                8,500
1974              7,800              2,700           2,400           500                 200               13,600
1975              8,600              2,800           1,600           900                 300               14,200
1976              6,800              2,200           1,500           800                400                11,700
1977              7,300              2,400           1,800         1,000                 500               13,000
1978              9,100              2,900           2,300         1,000                 500               15,800
1979               NA                  NA              NA            NA                   NA                  NA
Average Annual Growth (%)
1960-1978          14.0               10.0            15.0           10.0                 9.0                 13.0
1965-1978          13.0               10.0            15.0           13.0                 7.0                 12.0
1973-1978          11.0               11.0            27.0           20.0                20.0                 13.0
Estimated Vehicle Fleet-/
Number           49,000             15,000          11,000         5,000               3,000               83,000
%                 59                 18              13            6                  4                     100
1/  Mission Estimates based on data in files.                                                                               >
Source: Ministry of Transport, November 1979.
Note:    Fleet figures are subject to considerable margin of error.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption by Road Users for Selected Years, 1968-1979
Fuel Imports (metric tons) -/               Fuel Imports (m ) 2/               Fuel Consumption (m ) -/
FY             Gasoline   Diesel   Total                Gasoline   Diesel   Total         Gasoline   Diesel   Total
1968            70,000      71,000  141,000              93,000      82,000  175,000          --         --        --
1973            94,000    120,000  214,000              125,000    138,000  263,000       133,000    137,000  270,000
1978           144,000    208,000  352,000              192,000    239,000  431,000       217,000    266,000  483,000
1979             --           --       --                  --         --       --         233,000    312,000  545,000
Annual Increase               Metric Tons                                 m                                       m3
1968-1978                         10%                                     9%
1973-1978                         10%                                    10%                                      12%
1973-1979                          -                                      -                                       12%
1/  Source:  Government Import Statistics, Cameroon.
2/  Assuming density in metric tons per m  or gm per cc of 0.75 for-gasoline and 0.87 for diesel.
3/  Source:  Ministry of Economy and Planning, Cameroon
December 1980



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution of Retail Fuel Price for Selected Years, 1971-1979
(CFAF/litre, Douala-Bonaberi)            -
1971         1973          1973           1974           1976          1978         1979             1979
(November)      (July)     (October)      (February)      (October)       (May)      (February)      (October)
Gasoline
Super             48.20         52.80        55.00           72.50           81.70        90.70      101.00           117.00
Ordinary          42.10         44.70        46.30           63.80           72.90        81.90       92.00           108.00
Diesel Fuel         27.70         29.50         30.70          53.70           58.50        66.30       73.30             89.30
Percent Increase                                                            4
November 1971-October 1979           July 1973 - October 1979            February 1974 - October 1979
Gasoline
Super                          143.O                           122.0                                  61.0
Ordinary                       157.0                           142.0                                  69.0
Diesel                           222.0                           202.0                                  66.0
Source:  Ministry of Transport, November 1980.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Retail Price of Motor Fuel in Selected Cities-l/
CFAF/litre, October 1979
C.I.F.               Douala                            Garoua                            Koussari
Douala   Including Taxes  Net of Taxes   Including Taxes  Net of Taxes   Including Taxes  Net of Taxes
Gasoline
Super        40.67          117.00           63.74               128.00         74.74             146.00           92.74
Ordinary     38.30          108.00            57.96              119.00         68.96              137.00          86.96
Diesel Fuel    38.37            89.30           53.58              108.00         72.28              126.00          90.28
U.S.$/Gallon, October 1979
Gasoline
Super         0.73             2.16            1.15                2.31          1.35                2.63           1.67
Ordinary      0.69             1.95            1.04                2.14          1.24                2.47           1.57
Diesel Fuel      0.69            1.61            0.97                1.95          1.30                2.27           1.63
1/  Taxes include import duties, cross product subsidies and price stabilization levies.
1 U.S. Gallon , 3.785 litres, 1 U.S.$ - CFAF 210
Source: IBRD, Draft Cameroon Energy Report, October 1979.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Comparison Between Domestic Retail and International Petroleum Product Prices -/
(U.S.$/barrel, October 1979)
Domestic Retail                Average European and                 Ratio of Domestic Retail to
Price                         Caribbean Price                       International Price
Gasoline
Super                   88.62                               45.00                                   1.97
Ordinary                81.90                               42.00                                   1.95
Diesel Fuel               67.62                               42.00                                   1.61
1/ Average bulk spot price, FOB, Caribbean and Rotterdam.
Inclusion of transport costs to Cameroon would lower somewhat the price ratios.
Source:  IBRB Draft Cameroon Energy Report, October 1979.
U'



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Road Construction Outlays, l/ 1972-1978
(CFAF million, 1978 prices by fiscal Year)
2/
1972      1973       1974         1975       1976       1977       1978
Investment Budget                        2,242      2,188      3,376        1,469      2,745     4,679      6,314
Extra-Budgetary                            389        770        112        2,566      2,681      1,083        171
Foreign and Domestic Borrowings            418      4,798      1,159        6,719      5,727      3,897     2,353
Foreign Subsidies                            29       858        169        2,666      1,980        910        102
TOTAL                        3,078     8,614      4,816       13,420    13,133    10,569        8,940
Inflator
(Construction cost index)                 1.77       1.70       1.55       1.31        1.21       1.11       1.00
1/ Additional expenditures were incurred by public and private organizations including local governments.
2/  Domestic borrowings were recorded only for FY1973 and totaled about CFAF 500 million.
Source:  Ministry of Economy and Planning, January 1981.                                                              t



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Revenues,-/ 1972-1978
(CFAF million)
2/           2/
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976          1977         1978
New Vehicles                   5,683       6,551      6,750       6,623       8,503         9,680        14,000
Spare parts and tires          1,800      1,759       1,583       1,504       2,110         3,050         2,900
Fuel                           5,610       6,516      5,724       5,503       5,393         6,820         6,900
Annual tax on vehicles           673         607         439        432         450            550           600
TOTAL          13,766     15,433      14,496      14,062      16,456        20,100        24,400
1/  January 1976 prices for 1972.- 1976.  Average 1978 prices for 1977 - 1978.                                              H
2/  Preliminary figures based on MOT and mission estimates, consumption estimates.
Source:  Ministry of Economy and Planning, December 1978; MOT and mission estimates November 1980,
January 1981.



- 42 -                              Table 3.1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for the Edea-Yaounde Road
Geometric Design Standards
Design Speed                  : 80 km/hour
Minimum Radius of Curvature  : 450 m
Maximum Gradient              : 6% exceptionally 8.5%
Width of Pavement             : 7.40 m (two lanes)
Width of Shoulders            : 2.00 m (each side)
Width of Right of Way         :70 m (minimum)
Zone non oedificandi         : to be agreed during negotiations
Structural Design Features
Pavement:
Surface Course             : 6 cm asphalt concrete (hot mix)
Base Course                : 12 cm asphalt binder crushed stone
(or equivalent)
Sub-base Course            : 25 cm cement stabilized laterite
(or equivalent)
Service Life               : 20 year (overlay at 15 years)
Design Traffic             : T4 type corresponding to 5 x 106
passes of 13 tons equivalent axle
load
Bridge:
Bridge Width               : 10.40 m
Bridge Loading             : French standards, Class 1 bridge;
Ministry of Equipment, France
CCTG, Fascicules 65 and 66



- 43 -
TABLE 3.2
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                Cummulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                   at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1983
December      1982                     2,000
March         1983                    12,000
June          1983                    14,000
1984
September     1983                    17,000
December      1983                    20,000
March         1984                    23,000
June          1984                    26,000
1985
September     1984                    29,000
December      1984                    32,000
March         1985                    37,000
June          1985                    42,000
1986
September     1985                    46,000
December      1985                    50,000
March         1986                    55,000
June          1987                    60,000
1987
September    1986                     64,000
December.   1986                      67 000
March        1987                     69,000
June         1987                     70,000



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits (1980 U.S.$ million)
Road Section
Douala-Edea-                                                     Edea-Yaounde-                         Total
Const./Maint.       Avoided Distance        Benefits to             Const./Maint.   User Cost        Benefits to            Net
Year     Cost Savings             Savings        Diverted Air Traffic        Cost Savings      Savings    Diverted Air Traffic   Benefits
1         19.000                                                                4.600                                               19.000
2         35.500                  ---                                           3.200                                               35.200
3         64.640                   ---                  --                     58.940                                               64.640
4          0.000       ~      ~      -                               ~     ~~  35 24Q                                               14.240
5          0.076                15.642                  ___                    10.240         13.732           2.052                36.550
6          0.076                17.206                  0.785                 - 0.076         15.105          2.196                 36.823
7          0.076                18.927                  0.840                 - 0.076         16.616          2.349                 38.732
8          0.076                20.820                  0.899                  28.064         18,277          2.514                 70.650
9          0.076                22.901                  0.962                 - 0.076         20.105          2.690                 46.658
10          7.600                25.192                  1.029                 - 0.076         22.116           2.878                58.739
11          0.076                26.704                  1.029                  28.064         23.443          2.878                 82.194
12          0.076                28.306                  1.029                 -33.940         24.850          2.878                 23.199
13          0.076                30.004                  1.029                 - 0.076         26.341           2.878                60.252
14          0.076                31.804                  1.029                  28.064         27.921          2.878                 91.772
15          0.076                33.713                  1.029                 - 0.076         29.596          2.878                 63.216
16          0.076                35.735                  1.029                 - 0.076         31.372          2.878                 71.014
17          7.600                37.879                  1.029                  28.064         33.254          2.878                110.705
18          0.076                40.152                  1.029                 - 0.076         35.250           2.878                79.309
19          0.076                42.561                  1.029                 - 0.076         37.365           2.878                83.833
20          0.076                45.115                  1.029                 - 5.800         39.606          2.878                 82.904
21          0.076                47.821                  1.029                 - 0.076         41.983          2.878                 93.711
22          0.076                50.961                  1.029                 - 0.076         44.502          2.878                 96.492
23          0.076                53.732                  1.029                  28.064         47.172          2.878                132.951
24          0.076                56.956                  1.029                 - 0.076         50.002           2.878               110.865
IRR
Best estimate ~ 26.4%
Const. cost increase 20%= 22.4%
I/ See Table 4.3 for details.
2/ See Table 4.4 for details.
APRIL 1981



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Douala-Edea Section
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits (1980 U.S.$ million)
Savings in              1/           2/
Maintenance                   Construction   Avoided-   Benefits-
Construction    Reconstruction    New Alignment           Old Alignment        and Mainte-    Distance   to Diverted         Net
Year   New Alignment   Old Alignment   Periodic  Routine   Periodic   Routine   nance Costs    Savings    Air Traffic   Benefits
1      14.400                                                                        -14.400                                    -14.400
2      38.400                                                                        -38.400                                    -38.400
3      35.700            30.000                                                      -35.700                                    - 5.700
4       9.000            30.000                                                       21.000                                    21.000
5                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        15.642           -          15.718
6                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        17.206           -          i7  82
7                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        18.927         0.840         19.843
8                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        20.820         0.899         21.795
9                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        22.901         0.962         23.939
10                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        25.192         1.029         26.297
11                                      12.400                20.000                    7.600        26.704         1.029         35.333
12                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        28.306         1.029         29.411
13                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076         30.004        1.029         31.109
14                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        31.804         1.029         32.909
15                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        33.713         1.029         34.818
16                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        35.735         1.029         36.840
17                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076         37.879        1.029         38.984
18                                       12.400               20.000                    7.600         40.152        1.029         48.781
19                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        42.561         1.029         43.666
20                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        45.115         1.029         46.220
21                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076         47.821        1.029         48.926
22                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076         50.691        1.029         51.796
23                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076        53.732         1.029         54.837
24                                                 0.124                  0.200         0.076         56.956        1.029         58.061
Rates of Return
Best estimate =  28.4%
Const. cost increase 20% =  23.7%
No benefits to diverted traffic = 28.1Z
Base year traffic decrease 20% =  22.3%
Efficiency prices and shadow wages = 29.7t (see note 3, Table 4.4)
1/ Traffic growth of 10% per annum up to 1990 6% thereafter
2/ Benefits begin in 1986 after completion of Edea-Yaounde section. Annual growth 7% up to 1990 and constant thereafter.
APRIL 1981



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Project.
Edea-Yaoumde Section
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits (1980 U.S.$ million)
Savings in                               2/
Maintenance                   Construction                  Benefits to-
Construction   Rehabilitation         New Road              Old Road           and Mainte-    User CostI  Diverted Air    Net
Year     New Road          Old Road       Periodic  Routine   Periodic  Routine    nance Costs    Savings           Traffic          Benefits
1        4.600               -                                              _             4.600                                  _ 4.600
2       35.800            39.000                                                       + 3.200           -                       + 3,200
3       59.200                                                           0 0.260       -58.940           -                     '58.940
4       35.500                                                           0.260          -35.240          -                       -35.240
5       20.100                                                28.400       -           + 8.300         13.732                      22.032
6        3.500                                                           0.260            3.240        15.105       2.196          14.061
7                                                   0.336                0.260        - 0.076         16.616       2.349          18.899
8                                                   0.336      28.400                    28.064        18.277       2.514          48.555
9                                                   0.336                0.260            0.076        20.105       2.690          22.719
10                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        22.116       2.878          24.918
11                                                   0.336      28.400                    28.064        23.443       2.878          54.385
12                                        34.200                          0.260          -33.940        24.850       2.878          -6.212
13                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        26.341       2.878          29.143
14                                                   0.336      28.400                    28.064        27.921       2.878          58.863
15                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        29.596       2.878          32.398
16                                                   0.336                 0.260         - 0.076        31.372        2.878         34.174
17                                                   0.336      28.400                    28.064        33.254        2.878         64.196
18                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        35.250       2.878          38.052
19                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        37.365       2.878          40.167
20                                        34.200    0.336       28.400                   - 5.800        39.606       2.878          36.684
21                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        41.983       2.878          44.785
22                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        44.502       2.878          47.304
23                                                   0.336      28.400                    28.064        47.172       2.878          78.114
24                                                   0.336                0.260          - 0.076        50.002        2.878         52.956
Rates of Returns
Best estimate =  24.5X                                                               Net Present Value
Const. cost increase 20% -  20.9%
All const., rehabilitation and periodic maintenance costs increase 20% - 20%    Net present value discounted at 12% = US$88.97 million
4- User cast savings decrease 20% -  18.3%                                          - it pr ent value Hbscounted at 15% = US$37.51 million
No benefits to diverted air traffic =  24.1X                                           Expected Net present value at 12%  *US4a.67 milliou
Base year traffic decreases by 20% =   19.8%                                            with a standard deviation of US$9.21 million.
Efficiency pKices with shadow wages =  26.1%                                            w
1/ Traffic growth of 10% per annum up to 1990 and 6% thereafter.
2/  Annual growth of 7% per annum up to 1990 and 0% thereafter.
3/  Efficiency values converted on following basis;
CF Construction and periodic maintenance = 0.69
CF routine maintenance = 0.73 = SCF
CF User cost savings and benefits to diverted air traffic = 0.77
Shadow wage skilled labor = 0.70
Shadow wage unskilled labor = 0.55,
APRIL 1981



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs/km
(CFAF net of taxes, 1980 prices)
Paved Road Condition                      Unpaved Road Condition
Vehicle Type               Good       Fair      Poor       Bad         Good      Fair      Poor       Bad
Passenger Car               21          23        25        32         23         28        32         38
Van/Mini Bus                39          41       52         66         44         58         74        90
Medium Truck                97         103      160        163        106        140       179        219
Heavy Truck                339         359      454        583        371        505       649        798
Source:  Gauff: Route, Douala-Edea-Yaounde, Etude Economique (1979) and estimates.
Harris, Inc: L'Entretien Routier (August 1977).



ANNEX 1
- 480 -                             Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Past Bank Group Assistance
1.        Bank group assistance to the Cameroonian road subsector started
in 1964 with the provision of a Technical Assistance grant of US$200,000
for the feasibility studies of improvements on the Ngaoundere-Garoua Road
(246 km). This was followed in 1968 by an Engineering Credit of US$600,000
for detailed engineering of that road in addition to the Tiko-Victoria Road
(22 km). On the basis of these studies, the First Highway Project was pre-
pared in 1970. The Second and Third Highway Project followed in 1973 and 1978
respectively. The strategy for Bank Group assistance to the road subsector
has been in line with the evolving needs of the subsector. The first three
projects were implemented to fill the gaps between major trunk road connecting
populated areas with considerable economic potential. The Feeder Roads
Project, approved in 1977 and currently facing implementation difficulties,
addresses the needs of the rural/agricultural roads in accordance with the
Government's emphasis on rural development. The Fourth Highway Project which
was approved in 1978, is now being implemented after initial delays and is
aimed at improving the DH capacity to organise, plan and execute the routine
and periodic maintenance of the unpaved network. The Bank Group has also
provided funding for four railway projects and two port projects. Since 1964,
Bank assistance to the Cameroonian Transport Sector has totalled US$268.3
million in loans, credits and grants. Overall the Bank Group experience with
removing the physical transport handicaps to Cameroon's development has been
satisfactory. However, success in developing the institutional framework
has been less satisfactory and needs bettering. Various components of the
proposed Fifth Highway Project would tackle this including strengthening and
streamlining the Governments transport planning and coordinating capacity.
2.        The First Highway Project (Loan 663/Credit 180 CM, US$19.9 million,
March 1970) included construction of the Ngaoundere-Garoua and Tiki-Victoria
Roads to paved standards and preinvestment studies for the improvement of the
Garoua-Mora (258 km) and Douala-Kekem (161 km) Roads.  The Tiko-Victoria Road
was satisfactorily completed in April 1973. Construction of the Ngaoundere-
Garoua Road encountered technical difficulties when, during the 1973 rainy
season, about 60 km of completed sections started to break up because of poor
drainage. The drainage design was modified, failing sections were repaired
and the road was completed without a significant increase in the expected
volume of works in June 1975 two years later than expected. The road is in
good condition. As a result of inflation, the delayed completion of the works
increased construction costs. The Government bore the entire overrun, but the
Bank agreed to finance an additional US$2.0 million to compensate for the
devaluation of the US dollar during project execution. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 1574, April 29, 1977) for the First Highway Project concluded
that, in addition to reducing delays in project implementation, the Government
should better coordinate transport activities. Improvements are being carriecd
out partially under the Technical Assistance, the Third and Fourth Highway
Projects. The transport sector survey proposed for financing under the
proposed project has also been designed to achieve this objective.



- 49 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 935/Credit 429 CM, US$48.0 million
September 1973) comprised construction of three trunk roads to paved standards,
a road maintenance study, and technical assistance. Construction of the Pont
du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban road (50 km) was satisfactorily completed in
December 1976 of the Figuil-Mora section (163 km) of the Garoua-Mora Road in
July 1977, and of the Douala-Kekem Road in July 1978. The road maintenance
study was completed in May 1978 and served partly as the basis for preparing
the fourth project. Technical assistance has been provided to DH since
April 1977. The reconnaissance study of forestry evacuation roads was com-
pleted in December 1978. The project suffered from the 1973-74 world-wide
inflation, which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government
agreed to defer construction of the Garoua-Figuil Road section (95 km) under
the Third Highway Project. A supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was
approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government
by the project's cost overrun.
4.        The Third Highway Project (Loan 1515 CM, US$16.5 million, April
1978) included construction of the Garoua-Figuil Road section deleted from
the Second Highway Project and technical assistance to strengthen transport
planning and coordination within the Ministry of Transport. Construction was
completed in July 1979 but technical assistance is continuing. The Project
Completion Report for the Second and Third Highway Projects (July 17, 1980)
concluded that the impact of the substantial increase in project cost on the
economic benefits was offset by larger than expected increases in traffic.
The re-estimated rates of return for the two projects were about the same as
expected during appraisal (20%). The Project Completion Report also noted
that progress in developing transport-related institutions has been slow
compared with considerable progress made in upgrading the land transport
system over the last decade.
5.        Implementation of the Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1494/Credit 749
CM, US$11.1 million, December 1977) started in 1978. The project includes
creation of the Central Feeder Roads Unit within DH and a four-year construc-
tion program for 2,200 km of feeder roads. Project implementation is behind
schedule because the organization in charge is understaffed and because of
shortage of local funds. The Government is to submit for Bank approval a
modified program for project execution reflecting considerable feeder road
construction cost increases.
6.        The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1723/ Credit 926, US$48 million,
August 1979) comprises training of staff and workers for road maintenance,
maintenance of about 17,000 km of roads and rehabilitation of 1,700 km through
force account and domestic contractors, technical assistance to the domestic
construction industry, two permanent weighing stations, and pre-investment
studies for the proposed project and forestry evacuation roads. Implementa-
tion of the Fourth Highway Project has started after initial difficulties with
recruiting consultants, equipment procurements, setting up the training
brigade and the training center.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Engineers to Evaluate the
Condition of the Paved Road Network and to Design
Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs
Introduction
1.        The Government of the United Republic of Cameroon intends to carry
out a study on systematic methodologies for maintenance, conservation, and
betterment of its paved road network which comprises about 2,400 km constructed
at various times to differing standards and carrying variable traffic flows.
The Government will need the services of experienced consultants to carry out
the proposed study in collaboration with Labogenie, the Government's Civil
Works Laboratory. The aims of the study are to evaluate the condition of the
selected roads, define a reconstruction and maintenance policy, establish a
hierarchy of needs, design the reconstruction and maintenance programs,
estimate their costs, and for the top priority items to prepare appropriate
engineering design and contract documents in preparation for the award of
contracts. Consultants should liaise with Lavalin International on questions
related to cost and techniques of routine maintenance of paved roads. At
present Lavalin is in the field implementing a maintenance program under the
Fourth Highway Project.
2.        It is expected that the major portion of the work will involve
determining the appropriate thickness and timing of asphaltic concrete over-
lays, or reconstruction of pavement and base courses over a certain length, or
resealing or surface dressing other sections after necessary local repairs
have been carried out. The study should be complete including evaluation
and if needed the redesign of drainage structures, ditches, shoulders,
pavement width and possibly minor corrections of the alignment. The study
should optimize the reconstruction and maintenance system and minimize the
total cost. 1/ The reconstruction and maintenance system should include all
possible activities ranging from reconstruction through rehabilitation,
pavement widening and strengthening, surface dressing, resealing and repair
of drainage structure and ditches to routine maintenance. The selected
activities should be scheduled in an optimum sequence.
1/   For reference purposes, consultants may use "Pavement Management Systems"
by R. Haas and W.R. Hudson. McGraw-Hill Book Company (1978).



- 51 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
Objectives
3.        The objectives of the study are:
(i)  to evaluate the different pavement structures' capacity to withstand
present and future traffic conditions under the various regional,
topographic, and climatic conditions;
(ii)  to design reasonably phased reconstruction and maintenance programs
for the whole paved road network;
(iii) to prepare economic and engineering feasibility studies for the
proposed reconstruction and maintenance programs; and
(iv)  to prepare the final engineering and bidding documents for work
on those sections which should be undertaken during the first three
years.
Scope of Consultant Services
Phase I
4.        Consultants should carry out:
(i)  an inventory of about 2,400 km of paved road network including
existing conditions of the roads (alignment, grades, pavement
structure, and drainage, etc.);
(ii)  an estimate of traffic based on the existing data (traffic count
including its composition, loads and projection);
(iii) an inventory of the geotechnical conditions including a qualitative
and quantitative evaluation of construction materials;
(iv)  visual inspection, sample recovery, and in situ and laboratory
tests and pavement roughness measurements as deemed necessary;
(v)  deflection tests of the existing pavements once before the rainy
season and once at the end of the rainy season; 1/
(vi)  pavement evaluation in light of the existing conditions;
(vii) review of the existing roads and study alternative reconstruction
and maintenance policies;
1/   For reference purposes consultants may use "Measurement of Pavement
Deflections in Tropical and Sub-Tropical Climates" by H.R. Smith and
C.R. Jones. TRRL Laboratory Report 935 (1980).



- 52  -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(viii)  establishment of a hierarchy of needs and a proposal for a phased
reconstruction of the maintenance program;
(ix) economic and engineering feasibility studies of the road sections
of the program; and
(x)  recommendations.
Phase II
5.        Following agreement between the Government and the Bank, consul-
tants should prepare the detailed engineering and bidding documents for
sections of roads that need reconstruction or maintenance during the first
three years.
A.   Phase I, Feasibility Study
6.        The objectives of the feasibility study are to design a phased
reconstruction and maintenance program for the whole paved network and to
define the immediate optimum economic solution for each identified road
section.  The consultants should compare feasible alternatives and:
(i)  determine the technical characteristics of each section to be
reconstructed or maintained;
(ii) estimate the cost of executing the immediate and future works; and
(iii) evaluate the benefits.
7.        The feasibility study will include:
(i)  Traffic studies.  Additional traffic counts and composition and
load estimates should be carried out on the selected road sections.
The following vehicle types should be used: heavy trucks (greater
than 5t load) and buses, light trucks, vans and land rovers, and
cars. For each section of road studied, forecasts of traffic shalL
be established for each five-year period during the economic life of
the proposed investments.  The forecasts should be established witl
the help of origin-destination surveys of typical users of the
existing corridors.
(ii) Study of road transport costs. For each technical solution con-
sidered, the operating costs for each type of vehicle as well as
its evolution during the economic life of the investment will be
studied. The costs of routine and periodic maintenance will be
included, as well as the costs of reconstruction. The interrela-
tionship between traffic, the vehicle operating costs, maintenance
costs and the cost of reconstruction will be considered.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
(iii)  Technical investigations.  Consultants should undertake all perti-
nent topographic, soils, hydrological and pavement surveys and
testing of the performance of the existing pavement to determine
all technical characteristics of the identified road sections.
Bridges, culverts and ditches will also be examined and the neces-
sary repair or reconstruction works defined. The documents neces-
sary for the execution of these works will be prepared, including
investigations for foundations studies and hydrological surveys
for drainage works. The consultants should also give special
attention to selecting the materials best adapted for the construc-
tion of the subgrade, sub-base, the base and wearing courses. They
should identify and carefully evaluate the quality and quantity of
materials of the borrow pits and rock quarries within economical
hauling distance of the road. They should also, if necessary,
carry out soils surveys and identify quarries and borrow pits for
road maintenance in the regions where these needs were identified
in Phase I.
(iv) Economic comparison of the solutions examined. To define the
economically most advantageous solution, a comparison will be
made of the total transport costs on the road (including all vehicle
operating costs) for the economic life of the proposed investment,
as well as the costs of investments and maintenance associated with
the different solutions considered. The comparison is to determine
the optimum technical characteristics as well as the timing of the
investment. Normal, generated and diverted (if foreseen) traffic
will be separately identified. Other benefits to be quantified are:
the savings due to time-savings for the transport of high-value
goods, and reduction in spoilage of perishable goods.
8.        The various solutions will be compared to a reference solution,
which is defined as the continued use of the existing road, on its present
alignment, without major improvements and with the appropriate maintenance as
required. The economic rate of return and the net present value discounted
at 12% will be determined for each solution, as well as the first-year return
(comparison of investment costs to benefits the first year after completion).
A sensitivity analysis will be performed to account for uncertainty in any of
the cost and benefit parameters entering into the calculation. Any possible
interdependence among the variables should be considered.
9.        The costs to be taken into account are economic costs, i.e., net
of taxes and adjusted to reflect the scarcity or surplus of the resource.
B.   Phase II, Detailed Engineering and Bidding Documents
10.       This step will include the preparation of final engineering, cost
estimates and bidding documents for the works selected by the Government
on the basis of the feasibility studies' recommendations. It will include
the final detailed topographic surveys and geotechnical studies to complement
the work done during feasibility studies as well as the staking of the road
center line and structures with permanent references.



-54-               ~ANNEX 2
Page 5
11.       The bidding documents will be prepared for international competi-
tive bidding with prequalification of contractors, in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. The
consultants will recommend the grouping of the contract works according to
the directives of the Government.
12.       As soon as the necessary elements for the detailed definition of
the works are shown, the consultants will prepare a prequalification dossier.
It will include an invitation to apply for prequalification as well as a
brief descriptive notice on the nature of the works.  The consultants will
also prepare the newspaper announcement and the circulars for informing the
embassies and representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland.
13.       The bidding documents shall include:
(i) all drawings necessary for pegging the road centerline, surveying
cross-sections and grades for construction of sub-grades, base
course, ditches, shoulders and the pavement, as well as for all
drainage structures and bridges and the associated accessories and
equipment;
(ii) the general conditions of contract, especially concerning the
rules about performance bond, price adjustment formulas, insurance
to be provided and advance payments;
(iii) the special conditions of contract, including the technical speci-
fications and materials and the quality control and measurements
procedures;
(iv) schedule of unit prices; and
(v) the quantity estimate.
14.       Consultants should also prepare a confidential report which should
comprise the detailed cost estimate, broken down into foreign costs, local
costs and taxes. The foreign cost will include, in particular, the following:
depreciation of imported equipment, imported materials and supplies, salaries
and benefits for expatriate personnel, overheads and profits of the contrac-
tor, as well as the main foreign exchange cost of goods produced in Cameroon
which are used in the project.
15.       Consultants should consider subcontracting some of the geotechnical
and pavement investigation to Labogenie to the degree warranted by its
capacity and desire to execute these works. During the last year of the
project, consultants should train Labogenie-s personnel to continue the
work and consultants should transfer the remaining tasks to Labogenie in such
a manner that the maintenance program will continue without interruptions.



55                                  ANNEX 2
Page 6
16.       Reporting:
1.   Inception Report:  (due 6 months after signature of the contract)
- should contain observations on visual inspection of the paved
road network, detailed program, schedule and cost estimates. The
proposed program and costs will be discussed with the Government
and Bank and if needed program will be modified following written
order of the Government.
2.   Feasibility Report: (due two years after signature of the contract)
Phase I report.
- should contain all measurements, data, observation, analysis
and recommendation as described in the Terms of Reference. The
draft report is due 21 months after signature of the contract to
the Government and the Bank for review and comments.
3.   Final Engineering, Bidding Documents, Confidential Report
Phase II Report. (due three years after signature of the contract)
- should contain all documents and reports specified in the Terms
of Reference. Draft documents should be submitted to the Government
and the Bank 2.5 years after the signature of the contract for
review and comments.



- 56-                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications
of Experts for the Highway Department
in the Ministry of Equipment
A.   Terms of Reference
The three experts will assist the Director of the Highway Department
in monitoring the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road. The managerial
civil engineer will be assigned to the Director-s office and will report to
the Director directly. Two other engineers will be assigned to the New Works
Division (Sous-Direction des Travaux Neufs) and will report to the managerial
engineer through the Sous-Directeur des Travaux Neufs. In particular, they
will:
1.   assist the Highway Department in management, procurement,
budget and financing matters to assure the efficient and rapid
execution of the works;
2.   assist the Highway Department in supervising consultants and
contractors;
3.   review technical proposals and decide a course of action; if
the cost, environmental or political implications of the
proposals are significant, the experts should discuss the
proposal with the Director for the purpose of obtaining his
approval;
4.   monitor contractor's work schedules, construction progress,
and evaluation of costs;
5.   in a monthly progress report, advise the Government and the
financing agencies about work progress, problems and their
proposed solutions and the evolution of project costs;
6.   prepare and process withdrawal applications; in particular,
to be responsible for obtaining all necessary signatures in
Cameroon and ensuring that they are sent to the financing
agencies within two weeks from the date of signature of the
supervising ^onsultants;
7.   accept the work of contractors;
8.   train Cameroonian counterparts in managerial and supervisory
assignments in such a manner that these counterparts can
efficiently substitute for the experts at the end of their
assignments; and



_ 57 _                         ANNEX 3
Page 2
9.   make a critical evaluation of the project in a final report to
the Government and the financing agencies. This report should
contain the history of the project, give specific details about
the problems and explain the adopted solutions. It should also
give all the relevant cost and benefit data which will help in
the evaluation of the project. The experts should submit a
draft version of their report three months before their depar-
tures.  They will finalize their report during the last month
of their stay by incorporating the comments of the Government,
Bank and other financing agencies who participated in this
project.
B.   Qualifications
Three persons having the following qualifications will be required
for about four years:
1.   Managerial Civil Engineer
The expert should be a well-qualified senior engineer with at least
ten years professional experience, of which five should be in a managerial
position supervising projects exceeding US$100 million. The expert should
have broad experience in technical, administrative, scheduling, cost and
management matters, and should be fluent in French.
2.   Structural Engineer
The expert should be a well-qualified engineer with at least five
years professional experience in design of structures and supervision of
contractors. He should be fluent in French and have some administrative
experience.
3.   Highway Engineer
The expert should be a well-qualified engineer with at least
five years professional experience in design of highways and supervision of
contractors. He should be fluent in French and have some administrative
experience.



- 58-                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
to the Ministry of Transport
General
1.        The Government of Cameroon intends to create a Division of Studies
and Planning (DSP) in the Ministry of Transport (MINT). DSP will replace the
Transport Planning and Coordination Unit which has been in operation since
1978. MINT discussed a tentative work program for the proposed DSP with the
Bank and is now formalizing it. The project provides for the continuation
and extension of the technical assistance to MINT provided under the Technical
Assistance Project and the Third Highway Project which consisted of 54 man-
months.
2.   Objectives
Technical assistance to DSP is expected to help MINT analyze pending
issues of the Transport Sector, provide specific recommendations to the
Government and, when needed, assist the agencies involved in the transport
sector. DSP is expected to become the major policy formulating and planning
arm of MINT in the coming years but, owing to the Ministry's limited experience
in these fields, technical assistance will be indispensable in DSP's formative
years. Major objectives of the technical assistance, among others, would be:
(i)  analyses of transport development and inter-model transport co-
ordination (investment programs in the sector, review of feasibility
studies of the different transport projects included in the Fifth
Development Plan, rail/road coordination, etc.);
(ii)  analyses of specific sector issues (review of the transport survey
to be compiled by consultants, analyses of road transport costs and
of the road transport industry, etc.);
(iii)  ad hoc recommendations on policy matters (transport tariffs,
road transport legislation, airport relocation, etc.);
(iv) assistance to the transport sector agencies on occasional basis
(issues specific to REGIFERCAM, NPA, Civil Aviation, etc.);
(v) training of Cameroonian counterparts (on-the-job training for DSP
staff, brief seminars/workshops sessions for staff in the transport
sector agencies on an ad hoc basis);



- 59 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 2
(vi) data collection and analysis (creation and continuous updating of a
simple data bank for the transport sector to be available to all
interested parties).
3.   Scope of the Technical Assistance
The Fifth Highway Project will provide for about 84 man-months
of assistance to DSP.  It will be distributed as follows:
(i)  Senior Transport Economist  (about 36 man-months) will be respon-
sible for making DSP fully operational and advising MOT and the
Government on relevant transport issues and policy matters related
to the sector as mentioned in para. 2. He will be responsible for
training Cameroonian staff and making preparations for the conduct
of the transport survey to be carried out by consultants; three
months after his arrival, he will prepare a detailed work program
for the following year and an indicative program for the subsequent
two years. He will have extensive background in transport planning
and coordination of all modes as well as extensive experience in
development planning in developing countries, including Africa.
(ii) Transport Economist (about 24 months) will coordinate his work with
the Senior Transport Economist and assist him in executing the
agreed work program. He will be responsible for training the
assigned Cameroonian counterpart to execute items (i) and (ii)
and will liaise on a regular basis with the Road Planning Unit in
the Ministry of Equipment; he will have at least five years of
experience in transport planning in developing countries and possess
a good knowledge of statistics and transport modelling.
(iii) Short-term Specialists (about 24 months) The Senior Transport
Economist, in consultation with the head of DSP and the Secretary
General of MOT, will determine the need and timing of the arrival
of short-term specialists in Cameroon and prepare and clear with
the Bank specific terms of reference for each of their assignments.
4.   Services and Facilities to Be Provided by MINT
(i)  MINT will provide two suitably qualified counterparts to work exclu-
sively with the Senior Transport Economist and one suitably qualified
counterpart to work with the Transport Economist. Additionally, MINT
will appoint a competent head who will work in close coordination
with the Senior Transport Economist. MINT will also ensure that the
Technical Assistants have real access to all Government authorities
and available data relevant to their services.
(ii) MINT will provide adequate transport, office and secretarial facili-
ties for the efficient utilization of services to be provided by the
technical assistance.



- 60 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3
5.   Schedule of Reports
The Senior Transport Economist will be responsible for submitting
the following reports to the Minister of Transport (through the Secretary
General) and the Bank (2 copies):
(i) a detailed annual work program three months after his arrival
in Cameroon, and quarterly progress reports describing in
detail the work accomplished during the quarter and a revised
work program for the following quarter;
(ii) individual reports for members of the technical assistance team
and short-term specialists at the end of their assignments;
(iii) a draft final report at the completion of the technical assistance
work and a final report one month after receipt of comments; and
(iv) other reports as may be requested by the Secretary General
of MINT.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference and Qualifications of
Experts for Labogenie, the National Civil Works Laboratory
A.   Terms of Reference
Four experts will assist the Director of Labogenie to work out a
viable laboratory development program and to implement it. The experts'
primary responsibility is to develop Labogenie's capacity to provide effective
laboratory support to the construction of the Douala-Yaounde Road. At the
Director's written request, the experts may also advise Labogenie concerning
other programs ranging from exploratory drilling and field measurements and
laboratory works related to building and road construction studies and mainte-
nance of paved and laterite roads. In particular, the team will consist of:
1.   A managerial civil engineer, specialized in geotechnical engineering,
will be assigned to the Director's office as an adviser for three
years. He will be responsible for designing and scheduling the
development program and supervising its implementation. He will
schedule the arrival of the other three experts and will supervise
their work. He will review:
-    the training requirements of the existing laboratory personnel
and make recommendations to the Director during the first year
of his assignment;
-    the personnel management policies of the laboratory, and
needs in qualified personnel;
-    the activity areas of the laboratory and the equipment require-
ments to support these activities.
He will:
-    improve the efficiency and quality of the laboratory and field work;
-    select personnel and establish teams, schedule and supervise their
field and laboratory work and give specific, detailed instructions
for carrying out their work;
-    submit a status report, plans and recommendations to the Director
and the Bank at the end of each year of his assignment. The Government
and the Bank will discuss these reports and the Director will advise the
expert in writing on the approval, modification, or rejection of the
proposed plans and recommendations.



- 62 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
2.   A field exploratory equipment specialist will plan and supervise the
field geotechnical exploratory program for two years. He will:
-    review the personnel and equipment requirements of the teams;
-    train personnel in specific tasks;
-    process the procurement of laboratory and field equipment and
review delivery and acceptance tests;
-    plan, schedule and execute field exploratory and laboratory
testing programs;
-    interpret results and findings;
-    write reports; and
-    train personnel in interpretation techniques and in report
writing.
3.   A senior laboratory technician will plan and implement a laboratory
testing program and be responsible for the related procurement
matters for three years. He will:
-    review equipment needs;
-    review personnel requirements;
-    devise, schedule and supervise an upgrading training program
for laboratory personnel;
-    provide on-the-job training for laboratory personnel;
-    develop job descriptions for each laboratory technician and give
them specific instructions to carry out their work;
-    implement the training expert's recommendations; and
-    process the procurement and review the delivery and acceptance
tests.
4.   A training expert will design and implement a training program for
one year. He will:
review and evaluate the qualifications and skills of laboratory
personnel;
define training needs and plan a training program;



- 63 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 3
during the fourth month of his assignment, he will present a
status report, detailed plan and schedule of implementation of
a training program. Following the review of the report by the
Bank, the expert will implement the approved program;
train a Cameroonian training officer; and
gradually phase out his program by handing over all his respon-
sibilities to the other experts and the Cameroonian training
officer.
B.   Qualifications
1.   Managerial Civil Engineer
The expert should be a well-qualified senior engineer with
at least ten years' professional experience of which five should be in a
managerial position in a civil works laboratory. The expert should have broad
experience in all laboratory and field exploratory works, administrative,
management and scheduling matters. The expert should be fluent in French and
demonstrate some experience in developing countries.
2.   Drilling Master
The expert should be a well-qualified technician knowledgeable in
field exploratory equipment and techniques. The expert should have three
years' experience in charge of exploratory work programs. He should be fluent
in French and demonstrate training and report writing capabilities.
3.   Senior Laboratory Technician
The expert should be a well-qualified technician knowledgeable in
laboratory equipment and be familiar with indoor testing techniques. The
expert should have five years' experience in charge of laboratory work.
He should be fluent in French and demonstrate training and report writing
capabilities.
4.   Training Expert
The expert should be a well-qualified civil engineer with five years
of training experience. He should be fluent in French and have some experience
in developing countries.



I
I



I B R 0 15470
-~~~~~~~~~~  5' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY lgel0
M A LI   A                             /T,,0h    o~oo4k
-,     V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  -  -  ~ WI '
0.                                         / .CENTRAL A  RICAN                                                                                                      1O
,,   CAMEROONN                  r"2
"C'"~~~~~~~~~~~~
/CONGO~    Z AIR E
i:.ooc   I'IIII   <'GABON                (
0',                                                                                              / fBto''
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT 
Rood under construCtionI
10'                        Rools zonAtruciaO under                                                                                                         K
National                                      o 0     40I O     00 ~    100 120 14014 F0g0
Looooved Roads,                                             KILOMETERS 
to 00 Ia nol ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 0--~o             IF     U
    0istrictG
RailVroadso
PRoers,
4.Ports
in 1te0rnationalairports
-*InterrOOt,ooat boundrioes
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NGrro0o                                                                                                                                    I           0ER 
K~~o    N-.  '~~'  2d- a
v4otooa4.s;t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~G . -                                .                    k-N010-T, RdoA NL
INS/OAR 00100Mo51-WK                                                                                                                                        F         "RI"CA     
Ng0i
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _IB RDIB                                                15 4 74 7  R
--0 |ciober I981I
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
/oM,,ngs  ,                                                                                                                                                            FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DouaIa-Eclda-Yaoundd Road
hA BASS F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~IT1                                              
SECTTON 0 p00-T)
5PRIMARYI ROADS
1>0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT CrI-. AOl TOOL
k                       ~               ~~~~~~ Cur-J                                                                                                                                                                                                        M1_- lONNS,/STy    ~r/_
R -YN R
L  -,,g-
{84   ,   fO\~//'  <\ t ? D S /_ -V f//tE/'S f~ (m ; 7 / -.,                                                                                                E :A
N ,                ,,     If                )                          91.      /                                                                                                                                                                       I
ilJ- /  . - -X,  )t0  ]- -E(K                                                                                                                     _ ____ __ _ __ ___ _/___ _.____ _____._
\   ,   /     /  rb9 mraBr . tr c/2svv /0KILOMETERS             /CNTRAL A,RrAN
/C    04 FAN  >                   Tfl~~~~~ A~~0O0O00000OOhoO0OOOO                                                                                                                         >,~~~~~~~    2   CAMEROON             RPRI
\   ~ ~ ~   /                                         do not Impiv~~~~~~~AA  R~Oo0,0RS"O000O0tot tbeou                                                                                                         flL,o0         RIO LOB
,Aag,0  00 o11   b- OOV , I                                                                                                                                                                          SAoM m, 
9 2   rTn Frbl  o/ dxseptalle orsuch bo md h.D                                                                                              1 Ngomedsac                 ,DrF fh <.  S    < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,TTYoZAIAIR
\     1005     D O00                                                O I O , O 00 00 00 00 .0                                                                  1100  OO                                                                       Af   N     C  N  



