Document of
The World Bank    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3333-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =     CFAF 270 a/
CFAF 1 million       =     US$3,703
a/   Floating exchange rate.  The CFA Franc
(CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF)
at the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       - African Development Bank
BADEA      -  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
EDF        -  European Development Fund
FAC        -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
LABOGENIE  -  National Civil Works Laboratory
MINEQ      - Ministry of Equipment
MINT       - Ministry of Transportation
NCEEP      -  National Civil Engineering Equipment Pool
NPA        -  Cameroon National Port Authority
REGIFERCAM -  National Railroad Company of Cameroon
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: >     United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Equipment
Amount:         US$70 million, including capitalized front-end fee
of US$1 million
Terms:          20 years including a five year grace period at an annual
interest rate of 11.6 percent
Co-financiers:  Canada, Netherlands, consortium of Kuwait Fund/Islamic
Bank/Abu Dhabi Fund
Project
Description:  The project is designed to assist the Government in the
construction of the Edea-Yaounde section of the Douala-Yaounde
road; other objectives are to provide technical assistance to
improve the management of the transport sector, and to help
prepare a national transport plan and future projects. The
project, to be implemented over a five-year period, would
consist of the following main components:
(i)  construction of the Edea-Yaounde section (181 km) of the
Douala-Yaounde road (246 km);
(ii) supervision of construction of the Edea-Yaounde
section;
(iii) technical assistance to the Ministry of Equipment and the
Ministry of Transport and fellowships for Cameroonian
staff;
(iv) strengthening of the National Civil Works Laboratory
including provision of technical assistance and fellow-
ships; and
(v)  pre-investment studies to improve national transport
planning and maintenance of the paved road network.
Benefits
and Risks:    The proposed road construction would provide a reliable
all-weather access in the transport corridor linking the
principal economic centers of the country. Principal quanti-
fiable benefits consist of vehicle operating cost savings for
road users. Unquantified benefits include time savings and
improved traffic conditions resulting in increased economic
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
incentives and private sector activities. The project would
also help improve transport planning and management. The
project has no major or unusual risks except that the imple-
mentation of the technical assistance components could be
delayed. To minimize this risk, planning and preparation for
this component was advanced during project preparation by
agreeing on terms of reference and early recruitment of
consultants, and implementation will be closely monitored.
Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Foreign    Local    Total
1.   Construction                      113.7       33.8      147.5
2.   Supervision of lots 6-9             8.1        2.0       10.1
3.   Technical assistance and
fellowships                      2.8        0.6        3.4
4.   Strengthening of Civil
Works Laboratory                  4.2        1.1        5.3
5.   Pre-investment studies              2.4        0.6        3.0
Total base cost                  131.2       38.1      169.3
Physical contingencies             11.7        3.5      15.2
Price contingencies              26.6          7.7      34.3
Cost (net of taxes)             169.5        49.3      218.8
Front End Fee on Bank Loan         1.0           -       1.0
Total Financing Required        170.5        49.3      219.8
Financing Plan: a/
US$ million
Foreign    Local    Total
IBRD                                    70.0        -         70.0
Canada                                  16.4        -         16.4
Consortium of Kuwait
Fund/Islamic Bank/Abu-Dhabi
Fund                                  31.4        -         31.4
Netherlands                             43.7        -         43.7
Cameroon                                 9.0       49.3       58.3
170.5       49.3     219.8
a/   Financing plan of the Edea-Yaounde Section (Section II) of the
Douala-Yaounde road. Details of foreign financing of the Douala-Edea
Section (I) are contained in Annex IV.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
from the IBRD loan:
US$ million
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual                     14.0   12.0   16.0   18.0   10.0
Cumulative                14.0   26.0   42.0   60.0   70.0
Rate of Return: 24 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3473-CM dated May 21, 1982
Maps: IBRD 15470 - Transport Network
IBRD 15471R - Douala-Edea-Yaounde Road






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR
THE FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$70 million with a
term of 20 years including five years of grace at an interest rate of 11.6
percent a year to help finance the Fifth Highway Project. The proposed
project will be co-financed in parallel as follows: Canada, US$16.4 million
equivalent; Netherlands, US$43.7 million equivalent; consortium of Kuwait and
Abu-Dhabi Funds and Islamic Bank, US$31.4 million equivalent. Annex IV
provides more detailed data on co-financing including lending terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon--Economic Memorandum"
(No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Since then two economic missions have visited Cameroon, as well as a number of
sector review missions. The findings of these missions are incorporated in
the following paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon was a federation from the time it gained independence in
1960, until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western and
francophone eastern parts of the country, was formed in 1972. The Government
has concentrated on fostering a sense of national unity among the different
parts of the country: the sparsely populated eastern region, the relatively
small but densely populated western part of the country, the sahelian zone in
the north with Muslim traditions, and the southern tropical regions.
4.        Cameroon has a population of 8.4 million (1980) and covers an area
of 475,000 km2. It is one of Africa-s most diversified countries, with a
wide range of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population densities,
ethnic groups and traditional cultures. Its main opportunities for develop-
ment lie in the expansion of agricultural, livestock, and forestry production;
the exploitation of energy and mineral resources; and the processing of
agricultural, forestry and mineral products for domestic consumption and
export. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and is believed to have
exported about 4 million tons of crude petroleum in 1981. Further increases
in crude petroleum production are expected. In 1981, Cameroon began producing
refined petroleum products. The country also has unexploited gas potential.
1/   The text of this section is substantially the same as in the President-s
Report for the Oil Palm and Rubber Consolidation Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 10, 1982.



- 2 -
5.        Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by large areas of low
population density and the country's port facilities and transport network
also serve landlocked Chad and the Central African Republic. Adequate port
and trunk transportation systems are essential for promoting agriculture,
forestry and industry, and for strengthening internal and international
communications. With the growth of industry, transportation, construction and
services, Cameroon is becoming increasingly urbanized. About 30 percent of
the population now live in towns, with the heaviest concentrations in Douala
the major port and industrial center, and Yaounde the capital.
6.        Cameroon subscribes to a philosophy of planned liberalism, and
the country's economic development has been pursued within a five-year invest-
ment planning framework. The Fourth Plan period ended in June, 1981, and the
Fifth Plan is now in effect. Cameroon's development and macro-economic
policies have been rather cautious, with the result that, while until the
late 70's growth has not been exceptionally rapid, the country has enjoyed
noteworthy economic stability.
7.        Growth.  Over the past fifteen years Cameroon has experienced
gradually accelerating rates of output and population growth. The real GDP
growth rate during the Second Plan Period (1966-71) averaged 4.2 percent; in
the Third (1971-76), it rose to 4.5 percent; and in the Fourth (1976-81),
it is estimated provisionally at 8.1 percent. Population growth in the three
periods was about 1.8, 1.9 and 2.3 percent a year respectively. Per capita
GNP rose between 1966 and 1980 at an annual rate of about 3.1 percent.
8.        Within the overall pattern of accelerating growth, there was some
unevenness in the performance of key productive sectors from one planning
period to another. During the Third Plan in particular, both agriculture and
manufacturing experienced periods of slowdown, although services grew strongly.
Contributing to the agricultural slowdown were decreases in the output of two
major export crops--cocoa and arabica coffee--related to declines in producer
prices compared with food prices, and to the termination of a fertilizer
subsidy program for arabica coffee. Forestry output dropped towards the end
of the period because of reduced Western European demand and some transporta-
tion bottlenecks. Growth of the manufacturing and mining sector slowed as a
result of the declining momentum of import substitution activities, which had
produced rapid increases in manufacturing output during the Second Plan years,
and deteriorating terms of trade. The acceleration in growth during the
Fourth Plan was helped by rapidly rising construction output, reflecting
sharply higher levels of investment, by recovery in cocoa and robusta coffee
production, as farmers responded to higher producer prices, and by recovery in
forestry output. Since 1978, the start-up of oil production has contributed
significantly to aggregate growth.
9.        Investment and Savings.  Underlying the longer term rise in GDP
growth have been rising proportions of investment. The investment/GDP ratio
averaged over 15 percent during the Second Plan, about 19 percent during the
Third, and close to 24 percent during 1976-80. Investment priorities have
shifted over time. The First Plan emphasized directly productive projects



(53 percent), and the Second, infrastructure and social projects (58 percent).
During 1976-80, directly productive activities were again favored (63 percent),
with heavy emphasis on manufacturing, mining and energy (52 percent). Despite
the rising investment/GDP ratios, the mobilization of domestic savings more
than kept pace, due largely to increased public savings. Gross domestic
savings rose from about 84 percent of total investment under the Second and
Third Plans to about 87 percent during 1976-79. After allowing for net factor
service and current transfers and the amortization of foreign medium- and
long-term loans, reliance on foreign financing fell from about 33 percent of
total investment during the Second Plan to about 30 percent during 1976-79.
10.       Public Finance.  Budgetary revenues amounted to about 15 percent
of GDP during the Second and Third Plans and increased slightly during
1976-79. Public savings after debt service declined from about 39 percent
of total public investment during the First Plan to about 36 percent during
the Second; however, it rebounded to 55 percent during 1976-79, thanks to
substantial contributions from the agricultural export stabilization funds.
11.       Balance of Payments.  Overall, the balance of payments has not posed
particular problems, apart from some short-term deterioration during the
1974-76 period. In 1977-80, exports rose substantially (at an average annual
rate of 26 percent) but imports also increased (at an average annual rate of
20 percent) because of more rapid economic growth and higher investment.
International reserves were rebuilt in 1976-80, in part by the use of IMF
credits, rising in 1980 to a gross level equivalent to about seven weeks of
imports and to a net level of about five weeks. This was low by international
standards, although still acceptable given Cameroons membership in the
Central African Monetary Union.
Development Prospects and Issues
12.       Short- and Medium-term Developments.  Oil production is bringing
with it significant changes in the Cameroonian economy. Historically,
Cameroon has been dependent on the export of agricultural products for the
bulk (72 percent in 1977/78) of its export earnings. Cocoa and coffee alone
accounted for 53 percent of the value of 1977/78 exports. However, oil
exports which represented about 1 percent of total exports in 1977/78, are
estimated at about 28 percent in 1979/80, with the share of agricultural
products dropping to close to 50 percent. Exports of oil have continued to
rise sharply in 1980/81, further reducing the proportional importance of
agricultural exports; this trend is expected to persist for at least two more
years.
13.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth in absolute
terms during 1980-86 is nonetheless quite favorable. Agricultural growth
expectations are based on some increase in cocoa output above 110,000 tons;
recovery of robusta coffee; continuing expansion for arabica coffee; in-
creased production of most food and other crops, as well as livestock; and
expansion of forestry production. Growth of industrial and mining production
is expected to result from existing and expanded manufacturing facilities



- 4 -
(particularly those for food, beverages and construction materials), from
some new industrial projects and from new mining ventures. An impact on the
structure of the economy is expected from the Fifth Development Plan invest-
ment program (1981-86). The proposed investment/GDP ratio under the Fifth
Plan is 23 percent. The investment program stresses support to agriculture
and expansion of the supply of technical and professional manpower, while
energy, mining and industry are to receive diminished emphasis.
14.       Longer-Term Developments.  Cameroon's promising potential in areas
outside agriculture implies a longer-term structural shift towards a more
diversified industrial base. Agriculture will play a critical but less
dominant role, and a shift in priorities towards increased food production for
the growing urban population appears probable. The rate at which agricultural
productivity increases will be a crucial determinant of the pace of economic
development, and will call for an appropriate mix of public intervention and
private initiative.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
15.       Total debt outstanding and disbursed rose from US$514 million at the
end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1981. Debt service payments rose
from US$39 million in 1976 to US$132 million in 1979, while exports increased
from US$757 million to about US$1.7 billion during the same period. Notwith-
standing a hardening of average loan terms in the 1970s, Cameroon's debt
service ratio was still less than 10 percent at the end of 1979, and is
projected to stay in the 12 to 14 percent range throughout the present decade.
Borrowing on non-concessionary terms is expected to account for about two-
thirds of total new commitments, and average terms are expected to harden
during the period. Because of higher debt service payments, projected net
disbursements will probably be less than in the past but, with Cameroon's
favorable export and savings prospects, are expected to be sufficient to allow
an investment rate above 25 percent of GDP, as well as the restoration of a
strong foreign reserve position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of March 31, 1982 amounted
to US$625.4 million and covered 39 projects: 18 in agriculture, 11 in trans-
portation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 2 small- and medium-scale
enterprise projects and 2 technical assistance projects. Transport and
agriculture each account for about 40 percent of these commitments. IFC has
invested in five enterprises, with total net loan and equity commitments of
US$12.7 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, including notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have occasionally
been encountered in implementation, the Government has consistently shown
willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.



In the past, Cameroon's disbursement rate compared very favorably with that
of most other countries. Recently, however, performance has deteriorated
somewhat, which appears to be partly symptomatic of administrative difficul-
ties that have become apparent, notably in the central procurement agency.
Several steps, including the provision of technical support to expedite
procurement procedures, are under consideration to improve the situation.
17.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i) strength-
ening and extending the road and rail trunk systems; (ii) raising agricultural
output and exports; and (iii) providing assistance to education. Through
1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending was concentrated
entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors. Since 1975,
lending has become more diversified, extending into other areas including
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and technical assistance.
18.       For the future, projects are being prepared in agriculture to
extend rural development efforts and strengthen agricultural research, and
to rehabilitate and expand existing infrastructure in transport. Additional
education and technical assistance projects are also planned, as well as
further SME, urban and water supply/sewerage projects. The Bank has carried
out sector studies in forestry, energy, industry and telecommunications, and
additional projects in these areas have been tentatively identified. Thus,
the trend towards further sectoral diversification of Bank lending, reflecting
the growing complexity of Cameroon's development needs, will continue.
19.       In addition to lending operations, the Bank will expand its program
of economic and sector work, develop the planning and provision of technical
assistance, and broaden its economic dialogue with the Government. In the
short- and medium-term, this dialogue is expected to cover the pace and
pattern of oil and gas development; the size and composition of the investment
program; the role of the private and public sectors; technical and other
skilled manpower constraints; training needs; improvements in the Government
administration; development priorities for export and food crops; and poten-
tial bottlenecks in infrastructure. The dialogue on longer-term issues would
center on basic agricultural and industrial development policies. An agricul-
tural sector study is being prepared and will be discussed with the Government
shortly. Regarding industry, the Bank has recently completed a comprehensive
study of industrialization and the system of incentives, which has been
discussed with the Government and has led to the provision of technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's capabilities for industrial policy
analysis and reformulation. Issues for continued dialogue are the objectives,
economic performance and accountability of public enterprises.
Donor Activities
20.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45.0 million a year, mostly in the form
of grants. France provided most of the assistance, which was concentrated in



- 6 -
infrastructure and some productive sectors. EDF and EIB directed most of
their assistance to agriculture and infrastructure. Bank and IDA disbursements
were small during this period. In the 1970s, foreign aid has increased to
about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of grants. Bank
and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of total disbursements. Bank
Group lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with that of other
donors; in 18 of the 39 Bank projects, joint or parallel financing was arranged
and expanded cofinancing is being actively sought for several projects under
consideration.
21.       Cameroon is now borrowing increasingly from private sources; such
borrowing rose to over 40 percent of external financing in 1975-79, compared
with only 11 percent in 1967-69. Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1980, amounted to US$2.0 billion, 7.6 percent of which in the
form of Bank loans and 7.3 percent in IDA credits. Bank loans accounted for
9.2 percent of public debt service and IDA credits for 0.9 percent. By 1985,
Bank loans and IDA credits are projected to account for about 26 percent of
debt outstanding and about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Transport System
22.       Cameroon's transport system is import/export oriented.  The focal
point of the network is Douala, the country's principal commercial center,
main seaport, and site of the principal international airport. The main
transport arteries are the Transcameroon corridor to the North (Douala-Edea-
Yaounde-Chad border) and the axis to the West (Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban). An
efficient transport system is important for the country's economic development
and regional integration, as well as for the growing transit traffic to and
from the landlocked neighboring countries Chad and the Central African Republic.
23.       The transport system consists of some 65,000 km of roads; 1,070 km
of railway; one principal and two secondary seaports; one seasonal river port;
and two international and 13 smaller domestic airports. Road transport is the
dominant mode. The road network comprises about 2,400 km of paved roads,
30,000 km of gravel and earth roads and some 32,000 km of unclassified earth
tracks. The density of the road network varies considerably throughout the
country, with concentration in the economically active and more populated
areas. Paved roads represent only 4 percent of the network, but carry nearly
50 percent of the road traffic. Overall, the classified network's growth of
about 6 percent per year since 1972 reflects the Government's priority for
developing the road subsector as an important factor of economic development
particularly for the agricultural sector. The condition of the network varies
from good to poor. Unpaved or partly paved roads are frequently impassable
during the rainy season, causing severe disruptions in communication and
economic activity.



- 7 -
24.       The railway is operated by REGIFERCAM, an autonomous state agency.
Financially, REGIFERCAM is operating at a loss but steps are being taken to
solve operational and managerial problems. External donors are financing
the track realignment between Douala and Yaounde as well as the purchase
of locomotives and rolling stock. However, realignment of the last section
of the track between Edea-Maloume is still subject to a determination of
its economic feasibility. The large investments involved would make debt
servicing critical for the railway without giving it a competitive edge over
road transport when the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road is completed
by 1985. Consequently, the Government and the Bank agreed under the ongoing
Fourth Railway Project (Loan 1734, US$27 million, and Credit 936, US$20
million of August 23, 1979) that the Edea-Maloume section would be realigned
only if it was economically justified. Construction of the proposed road will
result in some traffic diversion from rail to road. However, such a diversion
has already been taken into account in the preparation of the Fourth Railway
Project. Additionally, the Railway Project provides for measures to improve
REGIFERCAM's operation, marketing, tariffs and finances as well as studies to
review the pricing and regulatory environment of freight transport with the
objective of attaining a competitive mechanism for the allocation and distri-
bution of freight in the corridor.
25.       Douala, the principal port, handles 90 percent of Cameroon's foreign
and transit trade, with an annual turnover of 2.5 million tons. The Cameroon
National Port Authority operates the port at a profit. The port's capacity
has been expanded to about 6 million tons in view of rapid traffic growth at
an average annual rate of 8.5 percent between 1972-79. The substantially
completed Second Port Project (Loan 1321/Credit 657, US$25 million, 1976)
assisted in the capacity expansion and port reorganization. A Third Port
Project is being prepared aimed primarily at increasing productivity through
the extension of the industrial berth for clinker handling, and transfer of
fruit shipments to general cargo facilities.
Transport Planning
26.       The Government's principal objectives in the transport sector are to
promote regional integration and foreign trade, improve access to agricultural
areas and facilitate the marketing of foodcrop production. The Fourth Develop-
ment Plan (1976-1981) called for transport investment of some US$900 million
or an increase of about one-third in real terms over the preceding Plan.
While the proportion of transport investment was reduced from over 50 percent
to 35 percent of total public capital outlays, its realization was still to a
large extent dependent upon foreign financing. Also, the absorptive capacity
in the transport sector is limited and actual investments lag behind planned
levels.
27.       The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Equipment are the
principal Government agencies in charge of the planning and implementation
of transport projects. However, their staffing is limited both in nlmbers
and in their capacity to prepare and evaluate more complex investment pro-
grams. In the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on sector



- 8 -
policies, steps are being taken to improve transport planning. MINT has
created a Planning and Coordination unit which is being upgraded to increase
the Ministry's capacity to carry out more complex sector planning. Under
Bank-financed projects consultants have provided technical assistance and
training to help improve coordination and planning of transport activities.
Under the Third Highway project a Bank-financed economist helped MINT
to conduct a comprehensive origin-destination study. Another economist,
financed under the First Technical Cooperation Project, advised MINT on
general planning, policy and coordination matters. MINEQ has created a
Road Planning Unit and REGIFERCAM is improving its operational and planning
capacity. These measures are designed to help improve efficiency and pro-
ductivity of the transport sector. Although the Government has in the past
been slow to initiate changes in the planning mechanism, it has come to
recognize the increasing complexity of transport investment alternatives and
the need for improved and more comprehensive planning. It has, therefore,
requested assistance from the Bank, as part of the proposed project, to carry
out an overall transport sector survey. The transport survey would provide
longer-term perspectives on key sector issues such as intermodal choice,
policy formulation, investment criteria and resource allocation.
Road Subsector
28.       While the Ministry of Transport has overall responsibilities for
transport sector management, the Ministry of Equipment is principally in
charge of planning, construction and maintenance of the road network. In
the past, the Government has concentrated its effort on building and rehabili-
tating paved roads, actively supported by Bank Group operations. The completed
First Highway Project included construction of the Ngaoundere-Garoua and
Tiko-Victoria roads to paved standards and the preparation of preinvestment
studies. Completion of the Ngaoundere-Garoua road was delayed by two years
because of technical difficulties in particular insufficient drainage; this
resulted in cost overrun that was financed by the Government and supplementary
Bank financing. As explained in the Project Performance Audit Report, part of
the delays was also attributable to poor coordination among various agencies
responsible for implementation of the various project components. The Audit
Report therefore recommended close monitoring of road conditions and careful
maintenance of the road, as well as a better coordination of transport activi-
ties. The Second and Third Highway Projects helped finance construction of
several priority roads to paved standards. The project completion report
concluded that the impact of cost increases on the economic benefits was
largely offset by higher than originally projected traffic. Therefore,
the re-estimated rates of return for the two projects of 20 percent were
essentially the same as projected during appraisal. The completion report
noted that progress in institution building has been slow as compared to the
considerable physical improvements in the transport system during the last
decade. Technical assistance under the ongoing Fourth and proposed Fifth
Highway Projects is aimed at improving project coordination and institution
building. The Fourth Highway Project comprises mainly strengthening of
institutions and training for road maintenance, maintenance of about 17,000 km
and rehabilitation of 1,700 km of unpaved roads, technical assistance to the
domestic construction industry and preinvestment studies for the proposed



- 9 -
Fifth Project and for evacuation roads for forestry production. Project
implementation is now in its second year and proceeding satisfactorily. An
ongoing Feeder Roads project includes a construction program for some 2,200 km
of feeder roads. The Government is preparing a modified program to be approved
by the Bank, reflecting increases in construction costs and delays in project
execution.
29.       Road traffic growth during the 1970s is estimated to be around
11 percent a year or about twice the average GDP growth. However, paved
roads linking significant economic and population centers have historically
experienced even higher growth rates as confirmed by recently completed Bank
projects in Cameroon. The country's road transport industry, which is subject
to a minimum of regulation, is competitive and provides basic services in line
with expanding domestic demand. The Government issued a revised Highway Code
in 1979 restricting axle loads; it reviews tariffs periodically and is con-
sidering legislation to improve safety further and to control overloading.
30.       During the 1970s road investment was predominantly financed by
loans from foreign sources accounting for about half of total outlays of the
sub-sector. The Government's contribution amounted to about 35 percent and
the remainder was funded by local authorities. The Fourth Development Plan
called for road investments of US$390 million or 43 percent of total transport
investments. Current expenditure for road maintenance in the 1970s remained
virtually unchanged in real terms, but outlays per kilometer decreased because
of the expansion of the road network. Recently the Government has taken steps,
however, to reverse this trend and the road maintenance budget is now adequate.
Under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project, funding for maintenance operations
has increased, and a reclassification of the network has been completed that
should provide a more rational basis for the evaluation of needs and priori-
ties as well as the allocation of resources. Under the proposed Fifth project
studies will be undertaken to evaluate future maintenance needs for the paved
road network. Road user charges in general are quite high, and estimated
total outlays accounted for only about 70 percent of revenues during the last
decade. Principal sources for road user charges are taxes and duties on
vehicles, spare parts and tires. The other major source of revenue is tax on
fuel which averaged CFAF 52/litre for gasoline and CFAF 36/litre for diesel,
representing an overall average taxation rate of nearly 50 percent. These
taxes generated about US$70 million in 1979. The Government plans to review
tariff and taxation policies, within the framework of the national transport
sector survey to be financed under the proposed project, with a view to
implementing more appropriate road user charges.
31.       Due to difficult topographic, geotechnical, and climatic conditions,
the quality and price of construction works, timely project implementation,
and the lack of qualified local firms, the Government generally prefers
capital-intensive methods for the construction of large paved trunk roads. A
study financed under the Fourth Highway Project has been prepared with the
help of consultants to review the status and comparative advantage of domestic
contractors, and their potential for further development. Based on the
recommendations of the study, the Government has started to upgrade the local



- 10 -
construction industry including provision of easier access to credit under
more favorable conditions, improved training, and award of small size Govern-
ment contracts. The first Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) Project and
the ongoing Second SME Project provide financial and technical support for the
Government's promotion efforts in support of local construction and building
material firms.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The construction of the Douala-Yaounde road has been a high priority
project of the Government. The existing road is in poor condition and virtu-
ally closed to traffic during the rainy season causing severe disruptions in
communication and economic activities. Even in the dry season, the road is in
poor condition and is difficult to maintain given the heavy traffic which
calls for a paved surface. Construction of a paved road including realignment
would reduce the length of the existing road from 288 km to 246 km. When the
road is opened to traffic by 1986, about 1,700 vehicles a day are expected to
use it. The proposed road is designed to serve as the main trunk road of the
country, linking Cameroon's principal port of Douala with the industrial
center of Edea and the nation's capital of Yaounde. The project was prepared
by consultants financed in part under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project.
33.       During project preparation, the general layout and design standards
of the road have been extensively discussed with the Government. Initially,
the Government intended to construct a limited access four-lane divided high-
way with separate grade intersections and a design speed of 120 km/h. In view
of the current and projected traffic flows in the Douala-Yaounde transport
corridor, a full-fledged expressway was not justified since traffic needs
would be adequately served for an extended period by a two-lane paved road
with appropriate standards. The Government, assisted by the Bank, reviewed
various technical options and related financing requirements; it progressively
agreed to consider design standards and financing schemes that would avoid
over-dimensioned facilities and costly investments and an excessive burden on
the country's financial position. In response to the Bank's suggestion, the
Government finally selected the two-lane paved road option as retained under
the project. Current traffic estimates suggest an upgrading of the road to a
divided highway would be justified only by the year 2000.
34.       Based on appropriate design standards and related investment cost
of the Douala-Yaounde road, the Government was able to atttract a large number
of co-financing agencies thus limiting expensive contractor financing. The
Government asked the Bank to play a leading role in mobilizing foreign finan-
cing from diversified sources. Three co-donors' conferences were held to put
together the financing plan involving 12 co-lenders including four Arab funds.
A special feature of the financing scheme for such an infrastructure investment
is that some co-financing could be mobilized from private sources at market
rates combined with public funds on concessionary terms.



35.       Recognizing the existence of institutional bottlenecks and limita-
tions on the sector's absorptive capacity, the Government also requested an
extension of urgently needed further technical assistance and the inclusion
of pre-investment studies. These project components were designed to improve
in particular efficiency in sector planning and management, and to lay the
groundwork for a comprehensive maintenance program for paved roads commensurate
with the growing needs of the network. These components of the proposed
project will, in part, follow up on the recently completed nationwide origin/
destination road survey, and complement ongoing maintenance operations for
unpaved roads under previous Bank projects.
36.       An appraisal mission visited Cameroon in October/November 1980 and
brief follow-up visits took place during 1981 to refine technical data and
update financing arrangements. Negotiations were held in Washington from
March 25-29, 1982. At that time the Government had completed the bidding
procedure for the Bank-financed lot and reliable cost estimates were avail-
able. The Cameroonian delegation was led by H. E. Paul Pondi, Ambassador to
the United States. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 3473-CM is being circulated
separately.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The project would assist the Government in constructing the Edea-
Yaounde section of the Douala-Yaounde road. It would also provide urgently
needed technical assistance to improve project preparation, coordination, and
implementation in the sector, and to strengthen institutions. Finally, the
project would help prepare a national transport survey and future projects.
Specifically, the proposed project would consist of:
(i)  construction of the Edea-Yaounde Section (181 km) of the Douala-
Yaounde road (246 km);
(ii) supervision of construction of the Edea-Yaounde section;
(iii) 19 staff-years of technical assistance to the Ministries of Equip-
ment and Transportation and fellowships for Cameroonian staff;
(iv) strengthening of Labogenie, the National Civil Works Laboratory
including nine staff-years of technical assistance and fellowships;
and
(v)  two pre-investment studies consisting of the preparation  of a
national transportation survey and the evaluation of the paved road
network.
Implementation
38.       The Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ) will have overall responsibility
for project execution. However, the Ministry of Transport (MINT) will be
responsible for the preparation of the transport survey and the technical



- 12 -
assistance assigned to it. MINEQ will be assisted by consultants in project
implementation. The project will take about five years to complete; it is
expected to start in July 1982 and to be completed by December 1986.
Road Construction and Supervision
39.       For technical and financing purposes, the Government divided the
Douala-Edea-Yaounde road into two sections: Section I from Douala-Edea
(65 km) comprises lots 1 to 5; Section II from Edea-Yaounde (181 km) consists
of lots 6 to 9. The Bank would finance construction of lot 7 (65 km) which
represents 36 percent of the length of Section II. The road will have a
pavement 7.4 m wide with 2 m shoulders and a design speed of 80 km per hour.
The design standards for lot 7 and all other lots are based on a consultant's
study financed under the Fourth Highway Project. They are consistent with the
standards for Section I and other paved roads in Cameroon, and are appropriate
for the projected traffic. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
have all lots in Section I of the project under contract by December 31, 1982,
and to inform the Bank of any proposed modification of design standards or
extension of contract deadlines (Section 4.03(b) and (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       To permit better coordination of road construction, the Government,
with the consent of co-donors, has requested the Bank to finance the super-
vision of construction of all four lots of Section II. Supervisory consultants
for lot 8 which is already under construction, have been appointed and recruit-
ment for other consultants is underway. The appointment of all consultants
for supervision of construction of Section II would be a special condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
41.       To increase MINEQ's capacity to process construction contracts
including supervision of consultants, and to improve its efficiency, technical
assistance is urgently needed. A team of three engineers will therefore be
provided to the Highways Department of MINEQ for four years. The appointment
of qualified consultants and the nomination of counterparts would be a special
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The project will also provide 24 staff-years of fellowships to staff of the
Highways Department to help maintain and upgrade the quality of personnel.
42.       The Government has expressed its intention to also upgrade and
expand its planning capacity by strengthening MINT's planning and coordination
unit. The unit will have increased responsibilities for transport planning,
policy formulation and coordination. The project would, therefore, provide
for five staff-years of consultants to support MINT's expanded role and
for two additional staff-years of specialized short-term experts in accordance
with an agreed work program. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government will appoint qualified counterparts for the specialists
before their arrival (Section 3.02(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
Strengthening of Labogenie
43.       To assist Labogenie with the first phase of its long-term expan-
sion program, the project would provide for new buildings since existing
laboratory and office facilities are too small and inefficient. Nine staff-
years of technical assistance, eight one-year fellowships and urgently needed
laboratory equipment would also be financed under the project. At negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that the Government will prepare the list of
laboratory equipment not later than June 30, 1983 (Section 3.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Procurement for laboratory equipment will be subject to the
substantial completion of new laboratory buildings (Section 3.09 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Pre-investment Studies
44.       National Transport Survey.  Following the completion of the origin-
destination survey financed under the Third Highway Project, MINT intends
to prepare a national transport survey to strengthen investment and sector
planning, and to improve policy formulation and implementation. The project
will provide for nine staff-years of consultants to help carry out the transport
survey. The Bank and the Government have agreed on the terms of reference for
the experts and the Government is now recruiting consultants. Assurances have
been obtained that the Government will discuss the results and recommendations
of the survey with the Bank (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Paved Road Survey.  The ongoing Fourth Highway Project addresses the
maintenance of laterite roads and routine maintenance of paved roads. The
expanding road network and the increasing traffic necessitate the development
of a maintenance policy for paved roads. The project would provide 12 staff-
years of consultants to evaluate the road network, including laboratory testing
in collaboration with Labogenie. The proposed study will recommend an optimum
strategy for periodic maintenance, define the useful life of paved roads and
determine when and to what standards existing paved roads should be rehabili-
tated or reconstructed.
Cost and Financing
46.       Total cost for the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road, net of
taxes, is estimated at US$316.1 million, i.e.: Section I (Lots 1-5, from
Douala-Edea): $124.0 million; and Section II (Lots 6-9, from Edea-Yaounde):
US$192.1 million. Foreign sources, including the Bank, will provide US$245.4
million or 78 percent of total cost. External financing for Section I will be
provided by a consortium of the African Development Bank and the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (US$21.8 million equivalent), the European
Development Fund (US$7 million), France (US$70.4 million), and the Netherlands
(US$6.3 million). Annex IV provides data on co-financing including lending
terms. To realize the economic benefits of the project construction com-
ponents consisting of Section II of the Douala-Yaounde road, it is essential
that Section I on which construction has already started, be completed at
about the same time (para. 39).



- 14 -
47.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at
US$218.8 million consisting of US$192.1 million for construction of Section II
and US$26.7 million for non-construction project components such as technical
assistance and preinvestment studies. Foreign exchange cost is estimated at
about US$169.5 million or 77 percent of total cost. The proposed Bank loan
will finance the foreign exchange costs of the construction of lot 7 and of
the other (non-construction) project components, as well as the front end fee.
The Government has exempted all contracts for construction, consultants, and
technical assistance from taxes. Project costs are based on January 1982
prices and for the road construction on actual bid prices. Physical contin-
gencies are estimated at 10 percent for the construction works and equipment
procurement of Labogenie, and price contingencies at an average rate of about
8 percent a year. The proposed loan would allow for up to US$1.5 million of
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after February 1, 1982 for
urgently needed supervision of construction works and for technical assistance
to MINEQ. The loan would provide for a total of 70 staff-years for construc-
tion supervision and 49 staff-years for technical assistance and studies at an
average cost of US$12,000 per staff-month. These unit costs are in line with
prevailing billing rates of consulting firms operating in Cameroon.
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would account for 32 percent
of total project cost and 41 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the
project. Various co-lenders would participate in project funding through
parallel financing as follows: Canada (US$16.4 million equivalent for lot 9);
Netherlands (US$43.7 million for lot 8); and a consortium of the Kuwait Fund,
Islamic Bank and Abu Dhabi Fund (US$31.4 million in total, for lot 6). Thus,
together with the proposed Bank loan of US$70 million, external financing
would cover 95 percent of the project's foreign exchange component or 74
percent of total cost net of taxes. A special condition of loan effectiveness
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loans of
the co-financiers be fulfilled (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Government would cover the remaining foreign costs of US$9.0 million, all
local cost amounting to US$49.3 million equivalent, and would forego all taxes
through a general tax exemption for this project.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       The contracts for the construction of lot 7 as well as the purchase
of the major items of laboratory equipment would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. However,. laboratory equipment items not
exceeding US$10,000 each or US$300,000 in total may be procured through limited
international tendering on the basis of offers from at least three suppliers.
Bids for lot 7 were opened and evaluated before negotiations. Construction
of lots 6, 8, and 9, to be funded under parallel financing, will be carried
out by contractors on terms and conditions and in accordance with procurement
procedures acceptable to the co-lenders concerned. Contracts for building
construction amounting to approximately US$2 million will, be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory.
Consultants would be selected and recruited following Bank guidelines and
appointed on terms acceptable to the Bank.



- 15 -
50.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over five years to cover the
following expenditures: (i) 77 percent of total cost of civil works;
(ii) 80 percent of total cost of consultants and technical assistance;
(iii) 90 percent of total cost of fellowships; and (iv) 100 percent of foreign
cost of equipment. US$15.8 million would be unallocated. All disbursement
applications would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Justification
51.       The project is expected to have widespread beneficiaries since it
would reduce transport operating costs and provide a reliable year-round
all-weather access in the country's most important economic corridor linking
the three principal economic centers. As the transport industry is competi-
tive, most of the transport cost savings to road users are expected to be
passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices and improved supply of
goods, and to farmers through more favorable farm gate prices. Unquantifiable
benefits of the project would include time savings and improved quality of
traffic conditions resulting in increased economic incentives and private
sector activities. The project would also help improve transport planning
and management.
52.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 24 percent.
Sensitivity tests show that even in the event of a combined 20 percent
cost increase and a 20 percent decrease of road user savings, the rate of
return would still be 18 percent.
Risks
53.       Apart from possible quantity variations, the works have few tech-
nical risks as they are based on sound engineering principles and normal road
construction practices, and would be supervised by competent consultants.
There is a risk that the technical assistance component may not achieve
its objectives in time due to slow implementation. To minimize this risk,
planning and preparation for this component was advanced during project
preparation by agreeing on terms of reference and early recruitment of con-
sultants, and implementation will be closely monitored.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon and
the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are listed in
Section III of Annex III.



- 16 -
56.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be that consultants
be appointed to: (i) supervise construction of lots 6-9 (para. 40); and
(ii) assist the Ministry of Equipment, and that counterparts be nominated
(para. 41); and that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
loans of the co-financiers be fulfilled (para. 48).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen Qureshi.
Attachments
Washington D.C.,
May 26, 1982



1 '7 -                                              MANEX I
Page 1 of 7
TASLE 3A
CAiERON - SUCIAL INOICATDRS DATA SHEET
CAlEMWUN                       IEIERENCE GROUPS (WEIHTED AVE CES
&MD AKEA (THOUSAND Sq. K1M.)                                                       - M05T RECENT ESTIHATE)
TuTAL           475.4                               llDST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE LNCOME
ACRICULTDRAL     156.9             1960 J_    1970  b ESTIMATE        L AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA * CARIS8EAN
GOT FER CAPITA (USS)                140.0       230.0    560. 0 i              794.2                  1616.2
IEYCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RLWUAAS OF LWAL EQUIVALENT)      86.9       111.3    147.5                 707.5                 1324.1
7UPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  5680.7     6781.3   8245.0  
131M PUPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 13.9        20.3      33.0                 27.7                    64.2
POUPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     13.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MlLLIONS)                       37.0
YEAR STATIONARY PUPULATIUN lS REACHED                2130
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      11.9        14.3      17.3                 55.0                   34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRILULTU&AL LAND    36.0        44.0      51.3                130.7                   94.5
UPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                        38.9        40.5      41.5                 U.0                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                        57.0        55.4      54.4                 51.2                   55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.1         4.1       4.1                  2.8                    4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH RATE (PEKCENT)
TUTAL                             1.4         1.8       2.2                  2.8                    2.4
UR&AN                             4.9         5.6       7.6                  5.1                    3.7
CRUDE BIRTH MATE (PER THOUSAND)    42.8        42.0      42.3                 46.9                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.8        22.0      18.7                 15.8                    8.4
CROSS REPROUUCTION RATE             2.8         2.8       2.8                  3.2                    2.3
iAYILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
OEM) AND NUTRITION
LIDEL OF FUJO FRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       101.0    110.0                 69.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALUOIES (PERCENT OF
REQlUREKENTS)                  80.0        89.0      89.0                 92.3                  107.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        51.0      51.0                52.8                    65.8
OF WLICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      11.0        13.0      15.0                 16.1                   34.0
*2ILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY YATE    41.0        31.3      25.4                20.2                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEALS)   37.2        42.5      46.9                50.8                    64.1
WANT MORTALITY MATE (PER
lWUSAIW)                          172.0          ..    157.0                   *-                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEYCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      26.0                 27.4                   65.7
URBAN                              ..          ..      35.0                 74.3                   79.7
RUAL                               ..          ..      22.0                12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCREtA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TTAL                               ..          ..       ..                   ..                    59.9
UUAN                               ..          ..       ..                   ..                    75.7
SLA                                ..          ..        ..                  ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        48108.3    30139.0  16503.1               13644.1                  1728.2
POPULATIUN PER NURSINC PERSON    6151.0.j    2869.8   2228.1               289.6                   128L2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SEU
ToTAL                           535.7j/     563.0    370.1               1028.4                   471.2
1UL1                            329.0/      302.0    199.9                423.0                   558.0
RURAL                           579.Ot    722.0    606.5                3543.2
MUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED .          ..          ..
AVERAGE SIZE UF HUSSEHULD
TOTAL                              ..          ..       5.2
UAM                                ..          ..       5.1..
lAL                                ..          ..       5.2
AVBAGE NURSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUOL                               ..          ...
URA                                ..          .. . ...
WUL                                ..          ..tA
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
or DWELLlNGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       6.7                   ..
UKBAN                              ..          ..      22.6
RURAL                              ..          ..       0.5                  ..



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                   Page 2 of 7
Palo 2
TABLE 5A
CA HCOON --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 511CZT
CAMIERoO                        UREFRNCE GROUPS (WECIMRTE  AVRXC1S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATEz
HDST RECENT                 INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   APRICA SOUTH Of SAHJAA  LATIN ANUICA 6 CAdSSW
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0         91.0     101.0                  73.7                    101.7
MALE                  87.0       105.0      112.0                  9.6                     103.0
FnKALE               43.0         77.0       91.0                 79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0          8.0      16.0                  16.2                     35.3
VALE                   4.0        11.0       21.0                  25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0       11.0                 14.6                     33.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t or SECONDARY) 23.0           23.0      25.0                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                          8 .0     50.0                  36.2                     29.8
SECONDARY                                       24.0      26.0                  23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        19.0         12.0                                                     60.0
CONSUMPTION
FASSKNCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.9       7.7                  32.3                     42.6
LADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         31.3      30.5                  H9.0                    215.0
TV RECEIvERS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                  ..                   8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          2.5       3.9                  20.2                     62.8
EINEYA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1                     1.0                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2906.9       3299.2    3701.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   43.0        42.7       40.6                  36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              67.0         65.0      83.0                  56.6                     35.0
INIDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.0         6.0        6.9                  17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         48.7      44.9                  37.2                     31.0
MALE                                 59.9         57.0      54.3                  47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               42.9         40.6      35.6                  27.5                     14.8
ICONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.6          0.9       1.1                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RZCEIVED BY
IGQIEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..
SIGQEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                             .                    ..
wEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                .                    .        
LO.WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMUATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                              .      S.0                   8 1.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     105.0                 156.2                    187.6
ESTIHAT D RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
IIN                                   .3 ..                 ..                  34.3                    313.9
RURAL                                ..           .         ..                 137.6                   3S2.2
ESTSIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCZIIT)
URBN                                 ,,           ..      15.0
RRILAL                                                    40.0
.lot available
not applicable.
MS
/a   The group averages for  each Indicator ore populatio@-weihted aritluetic masa.  Caverage of co  ttime
moog the indicatore depends on avallability of data and Is not uifoem.
b   Unlaes  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1f9
sad 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate. between 1976 and 1979.
Le Fiscal year July-June; Id 1962, including ex-South Cameroon mder Brltish aduimietration.
Le The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates which have been reflected in the 1981                                          Hey, 1981
World Bank Atlas are $670 (at 1978-80 prices)
and 8.4 million.



ANNX I
-19 -                                                                                 Page 3 of 7
DEPINITIOMS OP SOCIAL.  ICaIiTORy
Nutas:  Although the duts  re d-ue  fore            generally judgad the eas  -uhurittive  od t.ible, it should al   be totd that thay may tu be inte-
enit-nlly comprabla becaus  of the lath of standardized de ifittlon   cud concept rea.d by different coI          re  in c-liectittg the date.  The de.         cone-....
theless,.. oeful to de..tothe ordne of cegntade, iudietet -red., and ohrretecranmjor dtffo...noee beteenI
The reer-c  grout  Ir   1  the eeea --ut   group of the eubjact ...touty d(2)   to gr group wIth ermea  high-e vrgeTrn  thau the I.tuntry grout
of the  buie-  country (ruotfr  eiu  tu-us01  uotee                   .gop  bo  "Meddle I-om  Ntooh Africa atd fiddeh           e't   hso  ees   fsrne
_uoi-ulturaef. nltI e)   I  the rafetos  ru  dute rho aveage  no  populatIon- ihn   tti l  _ean  fr euI                         Idctrrd  hn   eywe
saoct   fth   ootte  oaenu  bedtefrthtIn  rto  unete  oaas   f  roolsaon  bncdfc hr ~deYaso  h                      tstly  ofh at
andtontuifoe,   aotonueneeerceedItelatogavoaga rvntndreuresurha.   Taeeveageurnonyhefulcvodprtnt-caled
oneledoetn  t adnasnog  he crutry end refernc  groops.
T.21Ptl(thouad  q k.                                                                           P_tul    e  c             IytL cd-ttl   ru,cdrrl-Ppltr   rrl
Tee  -ite   ur  r  ar   comPrIing lend area andintend n-ner.                            ura,adrrl)dvddb   brrre                      u uber of hopitu  badel
rutuu-fEitmt-  of egricul.tona  ers  cead tempoarIl  or parm- -oty                      evallub1e iv public ed prlv-r general n-d apcilitd hospita  endor
fur crp., pasues.       are...kle   gender. orIto lie falloc; t97  data.                      hbhiotcerv              loyat      erreabll Tets pemnatiy eteffrd
by a   nn   r  pYs icIan.  tetbliebec  proidlgptcalyut
IMP PER CAPITA (US$) - INPpecniteeeae atc                _et      kalo   Irce, 1a-                dial care are no- tldo.          tlhospitals, honore, inluda health
roltatdh .       cnvnteetodbyee gydarAtlee (1977-79 haste); 19i0,                               and  edcl,  rectors von perceclysta1ffed% byaphsct (but by 
170, and 1979 det.                                                                            ndclataat   us.  IeI,rt. bi   f en h                     in-Patile    -_om
dantoo. -ud roovide a llelcd rang  uc -edtca  faiats   fo  eet
eMyGly IuNlltTiOu PUR CAPITA -Atu  cceetr   f coterit  cry  rtcco   purocene urban hoeptonle  uld i-                                         Mle ptnctpa/geeere  b`spbtls.I
end lignite, petroleum, naurlga ndbdro-, _utlear ad geothrelog o-                               ad rura  hospitalt luc..l or tore1 hoepite.ls ad medica  end aterelny
IIloiny) to kilogrum   of tol eqicae  pot p caPita; 1990, 1970, and 19(                         cater.   Spcialiaed heeplt.tle urn iInl ed oly undeo itotl.
dana.                                                                                        Adisal... 000 lapitto1 tsd_ - .Tota  nueo  of uditesioe  to of diLoharta
tru  hoPitate dio-de  by the rtgar or beda.
PPoUuTATIO AltD VITAL STATISTICS
T.nal Poplation. Mid-Ter thuend) - As  f JulY 1; 1960. 1970, and 1979                      tuSNutn
data.                                                                                      Avrg   te   fgcehl   res              er   Ioood) -ttl  urban  an  rra -
Urban Ponlatton (poo-n  of total) -Mani  of ob ano toa  popuaton                                    ...otehold  iont   fagnpof tudinlul  ohoshrelifo   qearer
dfestdefn 'to Ic urban uraeay affect coparaIlI,ty of dataan  their malt -eale.  A border or loger cay yr -y nat ha included en
amngcoatte;1910, 190, ad1979 data.                                                            thehuaodfreuit l puroe..
PoualaP nvetueAeae  ubrr  aen  orru-ua.uba.. ad   -1rl   A.e.-ga
IonuLet IL,an toL yea  If     Corret pvpultir  prjccoa  r L'      edon1911                  ben of  eeon  Per roo  It oIl urbat,.ad mot  cope  cave1oa
ttlPopulution by age end sn end thar mortalityadfriiy                                                      Iine  relae   reetrl.   Inllige   Irbds ne-pnm  ......rer   and
Inglf   opercaCy a   it  Iraignth IcttyePrruPita  no                                     A..set  tlrrtlciitv   rreto   nlia(-  oe.ubn   o   ua 
level  and femal llife ePeta-y e-btitlug et 77.5 ye-ns.  Tbrpr-Cuetoc   ellg h                                           elcrcIyi  lvn   qstosn   eretg
astrs  ori ertY    t  rata also ha v  theeleel    _uingdelo  iv                            cf toa I rat   urrua                twyltngaresectiely
fertilit  accordIg ccicrse leveland peetfanily pl_nrtg penford11eance.i   1
and fe-eility trende for P poviertlon  proa....e.dfetlc  rto
ltaatoeary  ptlto- Inaa:,tato            ApplttntrrIlc rwhavnPimaryE   1  ..oo   I   tivo                                atadfml-osettl   aeadfml
the birtb rats Ia equal to tha  et   an,adac the .  aga srucur  te                            nclenofalageaitepiaylve   epnenge   fr                                   tr
Inteya   ol  n   h   aeo   oln   ffrtIyot  orpen                                     eudn   ce -1-ctal. mae-and fem-J II  Companednchors;&'    6cra11r
mant . Inl.                                                                                  euctin-rqure   anlatfo   er   faprvdpIayIsrtf
slehe Petrecbd                                                                          osnllycf  2         ft 17 foa.rof ag   9th;  pores -ndnc  courses ar fg.,el
Population henait      f-                                                                   eorlud gdP
hI years). and retirad  (6   year Tan   onr  aa - ...e.tgn  of_t eld-yat p-              rPrrspodtn.g .... e..               -h,lt-Y    .
lactas1  on 1l961j-l, 19O1-7 1,nd197-9                                                    Peassuart Cars-)    fre  t     .o.n nonulu -drn)  -Paes .g. rare tomprtetmtr_
pepaltiun  191, 191, ad 197"daa.                                                        iliar  deioc.~-        -I1-                           h,              d-d
Crude each  ats (ar chonnd)    AChil detha  er  hor1 ud  of s-Iidg.. 1-pertdoa iesle  thousan  ppulation)    - Mlt-pa  of t -to-var  no    dt
pupelenan; 191, 197, and  979 dat.                                bouacaensr  generl.% poblic~ ld per totean   oppnaIfa-b  Iaua  an-
6oa. a`nrodurIotirae-vergenuberofdautve  cnna  will yen  inp.                                  licnse  reevn -d        unrnsadi   suneergsrte-a   aa
t-iiyraa;  usually7, - fire-ear aeragd  enigid90i90  ad17.mecuttraohdlcuig
ramltr `laenlna -hRenos   cul(toaee       eca  ubro tenoaptore                                T     t aciters (re  ahcueud P uruatton   -~      , T  raetrtr for bro dna  It
Family  lantin  - OeeS (rrn   tmrre   19)-Prcnaeo   atldt  uno    and- in                                         l yna  lt whenregltr-o of TO Yesta et   tefet
of         t   P-  .  td-ernag(1-0  years) who huee  bio-rnr lb dcriset          CONSUMPaOaNCruainIa   huednolala                           iateecaant
al   atedenni  saga age group.  9                                                  roaito    al   ecalItne   esae.det                           eeproia
inted-      fauer  tih  r  edIblean  rfodntgtn otie    (e.g.  bofe  and                              ..t   .S -1~l                          llt       
ten day   Availa le-vrley- mne   .domsic production.70 torelaeno e19a7r)11,  90  n  1979 data.                                              .t~ bl
met sr  atmtdb  Plbse   n  hsAlola  ted- n  omlett ibn  as. perenag  of1.h   tal  lbr-                                      oos   96,170ad99  aa
viny ad healh conaderinganrinomentf  temperature  body '. weighs  age          Indstr  frtn'2  th9-dlhr  oc  inmnIg                      fonen butt dn m atatn
andantdiarhto:            ftrbeo.adalslg1   ecnofrweea                                        n   ltnrn.ntradgea p.anrentage of noa                        d labo  for.. 19,
hoshl   eel -i6.191   n   97  as                                                           90ad   1979   II dsas-.. 
qutremenned tnt-I al contIesstabihd  yU    providefor 10tantperbnn"gJ  of  itonl,mae_n  femal  po1-ain  efal  geeektte
PIlnwatca of 10gem    f  oalpotf    prdaInd1  gaaofaImlen                                     96.190  ad199daa bdear   osdowTIeprtopatn  ae
polso protein, of which 10 gruma chould ho an~~~~ima,rttoW he  seand-:.        reflcting   d age-se  enunr   fth   etlnon   n   agnI asd
a_l  fund Surveyht; 1961-61.17   n           1977     7 d197td.                             to1 thel toul  labor-dot.
-eBcnt  nrn-ltansrlfrmnlladeue- Po l  supl  of food de
rived from gegmaleand pole.. It gree per day; 1961-1.)  1970 and 1177 dts.  ictenfIsThIlytIo
triesdana  erive  neonlifePeblbal196011970ted9179 daa.1ofhondeotds
an bith  1960, 197   Ad 1979  daa                                                          modyilg j,:d    shou.ld  aitrrte    Ihtnirobntuin
ofae   o thena- ion  irns.                                                               halt   ovryinoelee  c  ht nn                    ee  hl   ihaa-ga
Icnsto ifegan   icdcet  f1eruttun-ioit. ohn.endrual-Ium
ber.o  pmp ble.. (total, orhe, cud rural   wihfoubeam.l to.eaf. ntiouly, edqut-dIr   lasenilntfndoqln sI   e
we netsupply(inclues treted euf1c7 waere oru77 rea ad bu1unconamldn1d97ffode tle
C. it.   Elti.   l-    . d.1) - ptlalntr  Rlaiv.rtny  ncmeLeel(PO  ertuttl    uba.md url 
p   _ranatso fheInrsenfeppuains1onubnaraIpolrp                                                    telintn  uf= th   ruo try    rbnlee  isdrvdFro the  ura
reeeblacesiud  ml  ta   Iettsat   o   ehrso  hebcehl                                         n  ral2-teomo  of pultIo.            ubnedrnl  h   n  eelt
donthvI    t  pu         Iieproput.biowehar b,USDth p-day in fetch1iug nbr                 p.for
hoest  fecrena0 Sterag  (rrf    a  ofb.   ovolatd  -   2 total  fran  and 1 rea  -90   90                   I     9
the roFtln  u   irne.wt  or,without l Prat deb, Fof fua   urt                                                                    rnccedbra  aaOosn
tar installat     61l5ot97De.d                                                                                                             cay 1991W-c  U'
clans qualified from a medtrat etboal.. anuiest2nl
Puoulao  oatusngPro  -Ppltttdvdatytehto   tetct
Childandfea1 gr4 auat  oures  pracelca                196-"'.     90sIdauaadeeiatCCantSTRBM



- 20 -
Population:             8.4 million  (mid-1980)                                  ANNEX  I
GNP  per  capita:   US$668  (1980)  b/                                           Page  4 of  7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(l) /a
__ - --- - ___ _                 --                       - -- - -------- - - - --------------
1972      1973       1974      1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980
--7 _  - - - _ ____             - ---------------------- -  ---------- -- -                       _-------
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(IN CURRENT CFAF BILLIONS)
GDP at Market Prices /b              355.9     400.5      492.6     569.7      657,3     789.9      945.8  1W135#4   1,356.2
Gross Donestic Savings                45.3      59.6      109,8      85.9      101.2     162.7      197.1     221,0     281.7
Gross National Savings                36.6      50.0       94.4      69.7       83.6     146.4      166.2     189.7     257.5
Current Account Balance              -24.0     -17,8        0.3     -30.8      -27.1     -23.4      -11.1     -58.0     -22.3
Exports of Goods and NFS              80.9      90.6      132.6     138.9      156.8     202.6      296.0     314.8     384.2
Imports of Goods and NFS             -98.5    -101.7    -118.4    -156.4    -173.4    -218.8    -295.9    -355.6    -383.9
(As Z of GDP at harket Price)
GDP at Market Prices                 100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     1000       100.0     100.0     100.0
Gross Domestic Savings                12.7      14.9       22.3      15.1       15.4      20.6      20.8       19.5      20.8
Gross National Savings                10.3      12.5       19.2      12.2       12.7      1895       17.6      16.6       19.0
Current Account Balance               -6.8      -4.5       01       -5.4       -4.1      -3.0      -1.2       -5.1      -1.6
Exports of Goods and NFS              22.7      22.6       26,9      24.4       23.B      25,7      31.3       27,7      28.3
Imports of Goods and NFS             -27.7     -25,4      -24.0     -27.5     -26A4      -27.7     -31.3      -31.3     -28.3
(Annual Real Rates of Growth)
GOP at Market Prices                   2.6       5.5       11.1      -1.7        5.0       8.0       7.3        85         8.5
GROSS VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
(In Current CFAF Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc       111.7     126,7      154.7     193.7     220.8      259.7     297,7      359.2     404.4
hining                                08        1.2        1.8       2.3        2,1       3.2       7,3       23.2      52.6
Manufacturing                         38.3      40.4       45.6      56.2       67.5      74.7      89,4      101.9     123.0
Construction                          13.7      15.9       19.4      21.6       28.6      42.2      46.8       68.0      84.A
Electricity. Gas, Water                4.8       4.8        5.3       5.7        6.7      10.1      11.7       14.3      16.8
Transport and Communications          26,4      31,9       40.1      49.3      55.1       57,7      65.9       77.6      90.0
Trade                                 77.3      81.0       88.1      93.9     107.1      126.9     159.7      183.4     202.3
Public Administration                 32.6      33.0       34.4      43.6       45.1      56.2      67.7       90.4     108.2
Other Services                        37.6      51.9       84.7      81.0      87.0      111.6     139.2      152.6     204.4
Import Duties                         12.7      13.7       1985      22.4      32.9       43.1      54.6      61.4       68,1
(As Z of Total)
Agriculture incl,Livestock etc        31.4      31.6       31.4      34.0      33,6       32.9      31.5       31.6      29,8
Mining                                 0.2       0.3        0,4       0.4       0.3        0.4       0.8        2.0       3.9
Manufacturing                         10.8      10.1        9.3       9.9      10.3        9.5       9.5        9.0       9.1
Construction                           3,8       4.0        3.9       3.8       4A4        5.3       4.9        6.0       6.2
Electricitv. Gas and Water             1.3       1.2       11        1.0        1.0       1.3       1.2        1.3       1.2
Transport and Communications           7.4       9.0        9.1       8.7       8A4        7.3       7.0        6.8       6.6
Trade                                 21.7      20.2       17.9      16.5      16.3       16.1      16.9       16.2      14.9
Public Administration                  9.2       9.2        7.0       7.7       6.9        7.1       7.2       8.0        8.0
Other Services                        10.6      13.0       17.2      14.2       13.2      14.1      14.7       13.4      15.1
Import Duties                          3.6       3.4       3.8        3.9       5.0        5.5       5.8       5.4        5.0
US $1.00= CFAF                       265s0     241.0     230.1      222.4     225.1      248.0     239.0     216,7      209.2
(Period Average)
SOURCE:Data supplied bv the Cameroonian authorities with reclassification bv Staff.
/a Fiscal Year (Julw 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in the table.
/b Unrevised
WEST AFRICA CP2B
4/20/82



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
Population:              8.4  million  (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:   US$668  (1980) c/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(2)
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980
GOVERNMENT FINANCE SUMMARY /a
(In CFAF Millions)
Current Receipts                         59,308    67,895    83,370    98,763   120,901   162,331   200s761   218i865
Current Expenditure                      50.590    58,600    70,898    78,872    95,132   118,902   1289749   142.347
Current Surplus with adJustments          8,718      9,295    12,472    19,891    250769    43,736    57,954    76,518
Capital Expenditure                       129951    14,293    18,929    26,246    32,343    45,275    53,846    58,481
External Assistance (Net)                    900        481      -993    -2,305    12,022       2,997    -5,774    17,227
(As Percentage of GDP)
Current Receipts                            14.8       13.8      14.4       15.0       15.3      17.2       17.7        16.1
Current Expenditure                         12.6       11.9      12.2       12.0       12.0      1'.6       11.3        10.'
Current Surplus (or deficit)                 2.2        1.9       2.2        3.0        3.3       4.6        5.1         5.0
Capital Expenditure                          3.2        2.9       3,3        4,0        4.1       4.8        4.7         4.3
External Assistance (net)                    0.2        0.1      -0.2       -0.4        1.5       0.3       -0.5         1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /a
(In CFAF Millions-end Period)
Money and Quasi-monee                    59,530    78,550    94,720   1179780   155t420   194,808   221,831   288,391
Band Credit to Government                 3,470      3,960      5,510      6,551      9,853    14,149    16,731    21.149
Bank Credit to the Economi               60.760    78,930   101,510   119,970   169,740   2369502   297Y918   361.647
Percentages or Index Numbers
___ -_ -----------------------
Money I Guasi-moneg as I of GDP /b          14.9       15.9     16.3       17.9       19.7       20.6       19.5       21.3
Yaounde Consumer Price Index /a
(1970=100)                124.8      143.3      168.5      185.0     206.8      237.4      259.1      279.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Yaounde Ccnsuser Price Index                 7.3       14.8      17,6        9.8      l.B       14.8        9.1        7.7
Bank Credit to Government                    0.0       11.2      42,7       18.9       50.4      43.6       18.2       26.4
Bank Credit to the Econowy                   0.0       29.9      28.6       18.2       41.5      39.3       26.0       21.4
SOURCE:Data supplied by Cameroonian Authorities with Bank Staff estimates and
melassification.
/a Fiscal Year (Ju1Y 1-June 30) is used, Year indicates the end vear for each
fiscal year,
/b GDP is for Fiscal Year.
lc Unrevised.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/82



-22-
ANNEX  I
Page  6 of  7
Population:             8.4 million  (mid-1980)
GNP per  capita:   US$668  (1980)  a/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOhIC INDICATORS(3)
____   -  ------- -     _                           ---------------------------------------------------------------------___ __ ___ __
1972     ;1973       1974      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      1980
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
_______ ___ ___ __
(IN MILLIONS CFAF)
Exports of Goods and NFS                   80,915    909606   132,563   138,946   156,750   202,635   2969007   314,817   410,764
Imports of Goods and NFS                  -98,464  -101,687  -118,440  -1569383  -173,350  -218,755  -2959937  -355,69  -427,173
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                -179550   -11,080    14,123   -17,437   -16,600   -16,120            70   -40,753   -16,409
Interest Payments (net)                    -1,905    -2,279    -5,835    -8,572   -10,196    -9,292   -12,819   -186584   -21,824
Workers' Resittances                           123       165        607     2,160      1,993     2,557      3t254      4F675     4P665
Other Factor Payments (net)                -6,919    -7P498   -10P120    -90766    -9,374    -9,266    -6,510    -6,366    -7,010
Net Transfers                               2,219      2,857      1,503     2,848      79103     8,761      4,858     34011        692
Balance of Current Account                -24,032   -17,836         277   -30,766   -277074   -23,360   -11,148   -58,017   -39Y885
Net Direct Foreign Investment               2,604    -1,804      3,487      5i443      5,709     1,503      3,091     9,755    219261
Total Net Medium and Long-
Term Borrowing                           13,657    21,552      9,188    13,978    28,613    32,016    240773    35P928    58,634
:Disbursements                        16,351    25,071    13,749    20,988    36,458    43,093    51,575    58180    80,239
:Amortization                         -2,694    -3,519    -4,561    -7,010    -7,845   -11,078   -26.802   -22,252   -21,604
Trade Credit (net)                           -706        -37     2t343      3,768      2,290    -3,532      2,991        610     3,006
Other Short Term Capital                    1,218        -54    -49751    -4,984    -1,200    -2,287    -2,789   -11,225   -10,070
Other Capital n.e.i.                         -494    -19176      29772    -30755    -5,677    -3,365    -1,828         -215       -443
Gross Official International Reserves      12,578    11,196    20,522    11,116    11,706    13.798    25,358    18,235    40,322
Net Foreisn Assets                         10,400      9,970    18,760      8,110      6,680      -160    14,890    -9,300    22,770
US $1.00= CFAF  (Period Average)           265.0      241.0     230.1      222.4      225.1     248.0      239,0     216.7      209.2
SDR 1.00= CFAF  (Period Average)           273.8      265.5     289.2      260.2      275.9     286.8      282.5     277.6      272.3
a/ Unre vised.
SOURCE:Data suppied bv the Cameroonian authorities with Bank Staff reclassification
and estimates. Fiscal Year (JulY 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in
the table.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/ 82



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Population:       8.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$668 (1980) a/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (4)
(millions US$ at current prices)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT b/
Gross disbursements
Official grants                                 20       24      23       11      18      n.a.
Concessional loans                              45       55     122      133     174      128
DAC                                           17       32      40       53      83       70
OPEC                                           6        3      13        6      20       24
IDA                                           16       18      21       19      20      19
Other                                          6        2      48       55      51       15
Non-concessional loans                          81      123     183      174     348      442
Official export credits                        1        9      19       12      75       82
IBRD                                          21        8      15       37      30      28
Other multilateral                             4        1       3       21      10       18
Private                                       55      105     146      104     232     314
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 372      514     823    1133    1632    2002
Official                                     293      346     508      722    1014    1186
of which: IBRD                              50      58       72     102      130     152
IDA                             50       68      88      108     127      146
Private                                       79      168     315     411      618     816
Undisbursed debt                               321      497     543      786.   1071      607
Debt Service
Total service payments                          36       39      57      103     132      182
Interest                                      15       19      28       42      60     103
Payments as % of exports                         5.6      5.6     6.9      8.3     9.1      9.3
Average interest rate on new loans (%)             4.5      6.3     5.6      6.8      9.2     6.2
Official                                         2.5      3.9     4.6      4.3     6.4      4.9
Private                                           9.2      7.6     7.5    10.3    12.5    16.3
Average maturity of new loans (years)             25.3    17.0    17.6    21.5    16.2    24.0
Official                                        32.0    32.5    23.0    28.9    21.0    26.6
Private                                         10.0      9.0     6.9    11.1    10.6       8.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                  77.0
Maturities due wd thin 10 years                               136.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                  7.3
a/ Unrevised.
i End-of-period figures are shown.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/82



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                         US$ million
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                       Bank    IDA/4  Undisbursed
Eleven Credits and nine Loans have been fully            106.84   117.4        -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                            9.0       2.14
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                          6.5                0.51
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                   3.0       0.33
1245T-CM  1976  Cameroon    Education III                 17.0                7.22
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                    4.5       1.64
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                  7.0       3.47
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    SOCAPALM II                    7.0                0.84
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    SOCAPALM II                   18.0                2.15
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                            6.5       1.45
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                   4.6                4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    CAMDEV II                    15.0                 2.52
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                         8.5       3.07
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                  13.0       6.51
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    SEMRY Rice II                14.5                 0.88
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Highway III                   16.5                0.23
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Highway IV                             10.0       4.50
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Highway IV                   38.0                38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Railway IV                             20.0       7.91
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Railway IV                   27.0                25.17
1753-CM   1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply          21.0                20.83
975-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                             15.0       5.27
1791-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                   16.5                16.50
1010-CM   1980  Cameroon    Livestock II                           16.0      14.57
1919-CM   1981  Cameroon    Northern Province Rural
Development               25.0               25.00
1920-CM/1 1981  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises II            15.0               15.00
1075-CM   1981  Cameroon    Northern Province
Rural Development                  12.5      12.2
1168-CM/5 1981  Cameroon    Technical Cooperaion II                10.0      10.0
2073-CM/2 1981  Cameroon    Post and Telecommunication
Technical Assistance       7.50               7.50
2092-CM/3 1981  Cameroon    Forestry                     17.00               17.00
TOTAL                                   372.94   252.40   257.01
of which has been repaid               20.00     6.16
TOTAL now outstanding                   352.94   246.25
Amount sold                    7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72          -        -
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /4                            352.94   246.25
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       183.95    73.06   257.01
I   Signed on September 30, 1981, but not yet effective.
/8   Signed on March 18, 1982, but not yet effective.
/3 Approved but not yet signed.
/4   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/5   Signed on November 5, 1981, but not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1982)
Investment  Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor       Type of Business      Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory            -       0.38      0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation         -       0.81     0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation         -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal    7.00       0.93      7.93
551-CM      1981    SCM           Food and Food Pro-
cessing              1.12      0.20     1.32
578-CM      1981    SOCAVER       Glass Bottle Factory 1.70       0.18      1.88
579-CM      1981    SAFACAM III Rubber Plantation         -       0.25     0.25
Total gross commitments                                 9.82      3.16    12.98
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               -       0.26     0.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                       9.82      2.90    12.72
Total undisbursed                                       1.70      0.25     1.97
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation. The adult
vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala, recently transferred from the
Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labor, started training in March
1982. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Loan No. 1734 Fourth Railway Project: US$27 million Loan of
Cr. No. 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; and US$20 million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts have been awarded except for the maintenance facili-
ties near Yaounde and some modifications in the extensions in the workshop.
The civil works for the new Douala station have progressed enough to expect
completion in December, 1982. Detailed engineering studies for the new
maintenance depots in Yaounde are behind schedule and the reports are expected
by June, 1982. Contracts for Phase I of civil works in workshops and the
depots have just been awarded. Procurement of equipment and materials is 75
percent completed. Remodelling the training school is in progress; training
equipment is under procurement. Due to the excessive staffing and investments,
the financial situation of the Regie continues to be serious, but traffic is
increasing at 12 percent p.a. and this gives hope of some recovery in FY83.
Government established a special Commission to review and make recommendations
for improving the financial situation. Bank mission is expected to meet the
Government and discuss the Commission's report in June 1982. Staff reduction
and adequate tariff adjustments will have to be emphasized in this meeting.
Though at present, the financial situation is disturbing, there are signs that
with increased traffic and reforms in Government's policies, Regifercam can
become a commercially viable entity within a few years.
Loan No. 1245-T-CM Third Education Project: US$17 million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Closing Date is about two years behind schedule primarily
due to weak management and problems in dealing with a 34 percent cost overrun
(US$8.4 million) in civil works. The Government has made provision in its
FY82 and FY83 budgets to cover part of this cost overrun. Construction work
is completed or underway at 10 out of 12 project institutions. Bids for the
two remaining institutions have been evaluated and construction should start
soon. Equipment has been delivered to a secondary technical school and most
bids have been evaluated for other institutions. A secondary technical school
transferred from the previous project is the only one out of 12 project
institutions in operation and the other institutions are expected to be
operational by December 1982 and the remaining one by October 1983. In view
of the progress of project implementation, the Closing Date has been postponed
by one year and a detailed schedule for project implementation and reorganiza-
tion of the project unit has been agreed with the Government. However, we are
closely monitoring the main project implementation issues, and, unless these
issues are satisfactorily resolved, the project is expected to be closed by
December 31, 1982. Discussion has been undertaken about a new design for a
possible fourth project which has been suspended until implementation progress
of the third project has been made.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project's funds have been fully committed and most pre-investment
studies financed by it--largely in agriculture, transport and planning--have
been completed. Long-term advisory consultants are continuing to assist
Cameroonian staff to improve project generation and supervision capacity,
which is being supplemented by on-the-job training and formal training courses.
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project's organization and progress continues to accelerate
and to consolidate; construction standards of all but one sub-project are
good, as are their planning, budgeting and accounting. It is expected that
with the available funds about 60 percent of overall objectives will
be achieved at completion. In May 1982 the SEDA - Halcrow - ULG (Joint
Cameroonian/British venture) preparation report for a possible Phase II will
be available and Government has asked the Bank to appraise the second phase.
However, implementation has been slow, and the closing date will have to be
extended for an additional year to make full use of the remaining funds,
estimated at US$1.6 million.
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
US$7 million Third Window Loan of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings under the project continue to be satisfactory though
implementation lags slightly behind schedule. Due to labor unrest, lower
than forecasted yields and processing difficulties, production from earlier
plantings falls short of the target by about 25 percent. The company's
financial management has been strengthened by the appointment of an internal
auditor and the financial situation has improved. The net positive cash
balance as of June 30, 1981, of CFAF 230 million (US$0.9 million) however,
was insufficient to cover operating expenditures and a further capital
increase of some CFAF 2.00 billion (US$7.4 million) will be required under
the oil palm/rubber consolidation project scheduled for Board consideration
later in FY82.
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the Feeder Roads Project started in 1978. The
project includes creation of the Central Feeder Roads Unit within the Depart-
ment of Highways and a four-year construction program for 2,200 km of feeder
roads. Project implementation is behind schedule because the organization in
charge is understaffed and because of shortage of local funds. The Government
is to submit for Bank approval a modified program for project execution
reflecting considerable feeder road construction cost increases.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5 million Loan
of February 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
A satisfactory solution to the problems of dike erosion and piping
has been found, and no new erosion or piping has occurred in a test zone
that was protected. Permanent dike protection is now proceeding. Yields are
now approaching appraisal estimates. Further irrigation works have been
suspended until existing land is fully used. Thus funds from the original
financial envelope appear to be sufficient to complete dike protection. The
modest supplemental financing that is needed to complete the project would
be provided by Government. The program of resettlement of farmers from
neighboring, over-populated zones is proceeding at a rate consistent with
SEMRY's ability to provide adequately serviced townsites near paddy fields.
Ln. No. 1508   Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Although estate planting programs continue on target, the past
two fiscal year 1979/80, 1980/81, showed substantial cost overruns, owing
to this high planting/production costs and lower than forecasted yields per
hectare. CAMDEV's overall financial position remains precarious. The com-
pany 's management effectiveness was seriously impeded by difficulties arising
out of internal management conflicts. Government is aware of the company's
problems and permanent solutions will be implemented under the oil palm/rubber
consolidation project (SOCAPALM/CAMDEV) scheduled for Board consideration
later in FY82. The measures include inter alia a reorganization of CAMDEV's
management structure and a capital increase of some CFAF 6.0 billion (US$22.2
million).
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was satisfactorily completed in 1979.
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Transportation helped to carry out
a comprehensive origin-destination survey with the final phase having been
completed in mid 1981. Results of the origin-destination survey are expected
to be available shortly. A transport advisor financed under the Project,
is helping the Ministry of Planning evaluate and coordinate the transport
component of the Fifth Development Plan and will finish his term in mid 1982.
A US$5.6 million cost overrun, mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations, has
been covered by the Government.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is achieving its objectives and technical and financial
management is good. Although physical execution was lagging behind appraisal
schedules, owing to organizational problems encountered during the first
project year, improvements have been made in all components with corresponding
increases in procurement and disbursement rates. Government's contributions
to project financing continue to be regular, and liquidity problems due to
delays in preparation of withdrawal applications have been partly rectified.
Government has requested Bank group assistance for a follow-up project extending
coverage to the entire Western Province. Government with FAO/CP completed the
preparation report in January 1982 and an appraisal mission is presently in
the field.
Ln. No. 776    ZAPI East Integrated Rural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness
Date:  October 4, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress. Despite
budgetary constraints, physical implementation of most components approached
targeted levels for 1980/81. Crop production, processing, disease control,
research and inland fisheries components are developing well. Reorganization
of extension, credit and distribution services and ZAPI's management structure
is proceeding. ZAPI's financial situation shows marked improvement. As a
result of internal management reforms and a Government-authorized subsidy of
US$2.1 million, ZAPI should be able to liquidate its long-standing deficit and
resume program expansion in 1981/82. At midterm approximately 50 percent of
the IDA credit has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises training of staff and workers for road mainte-
nance, maintenance of about 17,000 km of roads and rehabilitation of 1,700 km
through force account and domestic contractors, technical assistance to the
domestic construction industry, two permanent weighing stations, and pre-
investment studies for the proposed project and forestry evacuation roads.
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project has started after initial diffi-
culties with recruiting consultants, equipment procurements, setting up the
training brigade and the training center.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Cr. No. 975    Second HEVECAM Project:  US$15 million Credit of April 18, 1980;
Ln. No. 1791   Date:  September 16, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985;
and US$16.5 million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
September 16, 1980; Closing Date: January 30, 1985.
The project took off well; the area planted in PY1, 2,390 ha
exceeded SAR target by 11 percent and as of 12.13.81 out of 2,200 ha for PY2
already 1,950 ha were planted. No problems are expected to complete the 250
ha remaining. Expenditures during both project years were well controlled and
minor accounting problems sorted out. Disbursement is in line with SAR
estimates and HEVECAM's financial situation is sound. The management team
works harmoniously with their national colleagues. In mid-1981, the estate
was plagued by some labor unrest which, however, were settled without major
problems.
Ln. No. 1753   Second Water Supply Project:  US$21 million Loan of December 11,
1979; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The aims of the project are to improve and extend water supply
systems in 13 secondary centers and two major cities, Douala and Yaounde; lay
the groundwork for organizing urban development planning for Douala and
Yaounde; initiate a pilot public health educational project; and strengthen
the organization of the water supply sector. Engineering studies and bidding
documents have been prepared and the procurement process is underway.
Cr. No. 1010   Second Livestock Development Project:  US$16 million Credit of
June 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This credit has recently become effective. The project will support
Cameroon's Livestock development through three major production components: a
diversified credit program, continued eradication of tsetse flies from the
grazing area of the Adamaoua Plateau, and a strengthening of veterinary field
services. It will also support formal and informal training, and institutional
reforms in aid of the productive components. Initial progress has been slow,
due to difficulties in recruiting the necessary expatriate specialists.
Ln. No. 1919   Northern Province Rural Development Project:  US$25 million
Cr. No. 1075   Loan of January 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  June 1, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986; and US$12.5 million Credit
of same date; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Since effectiveness on June 1, 1981, this project has achieved
remarkable results. Despite lower than normal rainfall during 1981, seed
cotton production with 95 percent of the buying campaign completed, is
expected to reach 47,000 tons or about 85 percent of the SAR target of
56,000 tons for PYI. Food crop production during the first year was
negligible, for 1982/83, however, the project estimates to plant about



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
1,200 ha and 250 ha, respectively, of improved maize and groundnuts. The
project accounts are kept by computer and the system developed permits the
Financial Controller monthly balances and comparison with annual budgets for
each project component. Moreover, reimbursement applications are produced on
a monthly basis by means of a simple program established by the project's
Financial Controller. Key local personnel and expatriates have largely been
recruited.
Cr. No. 1168   Second Technical Cooperation Project:  US$10 million
Credit of November 5, 1981;
Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project aims at improving Government capacity to execute the
Fifth Development Plan. It is expected to strengthen existing national
planning and external debt management systems, to help define better policies
and investment programs in key sectors, and to generate sound projects by
stressing the training of Cameroonian experts.
Ln. No. 2073   Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project:
US$7.5 million loan of March 19, 1982;
Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The purpose of the project is to reorganize and strengthen the Post
and Telecommunications entity so as to improve its financial situation and
the quality of service and to pave the way for a sound long term development
of the sector. It provides for establishment of a new operating entity,
preparation of an investment program and improved technical training.
Cr. No. 2092   Forestry Project:  US$17 million loan, not yet signed.
Not yet effective.
The project's objectives are to stregnthen the contribution of the
forestry sector to the economy through the establishment of plantations for
fuelwood and pulp industry raw material. It is also expected to increase the
capacity of Government agencies to continue the regeneration of forests and to
control the logging operations of forestry concessions.



- 32 -                          ANNEX III
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: consultants and partly financed under
the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: September 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  October 1980 (brief follow-
up missions took place in
1981)
(e) Negotiations completed: March 29, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
A.   The Government would:
(a) contract the construction of Section I of the Douala-Yaounde road by
December 1982, according to acceptable engineering standards; the
Bank should be informed of any modification of design standards and
extension of construction deadlines (para. 39);
(b) prepare not later than June 30, 1983, list of the required laboratory
equipment; and procure laboratory equipment only after substantial
completion of new laboratory buildings (para. 43);
(c) discuss the results and recommendations of the national transport
survey with the Bank (para. 44); and
(d) nominate counterparts to each expert for the technical assistance to
MINT prior to their arrival (para. 42).
B.   Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be that consultants be
appointed to: (i) supervise construction of lots 6-9 (para. 40); and
(ii) assist the Ministry of Equipment, and that counterparts be nominated
(para. 41) and that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
loans of the co-financiers be fulfilled (para. 48).



33 -
ANNEX IV
CAMEROON - DOUALA-YAOUNDE ROAD CONSTRUCTION - FOREIGN FINANCING
Approx.
Amount       US5$ equiv.     maturity        Grata P.       Interest
Lot     Finncing Agency             Currency      (million)       (million)       (years)        (yearn)       br rext
Consortium of
1.    - AD                              c           10.0             13.2           15              3            7,
-LADRA                          re            6.5              8.6           15              3            6.0
Total/Average                 DC           16.5             21.8           15              3            6.6
2.      France (see lot No. 5)
3.      Netherlands
- Government               hfl.           7.0              2.6           18             16            5.0
- Private Bank             hfl.          10.0              3.7            7              2            9,0
Total/Average                hfl.          17.0              6.3           11.5            5.3          7.4
3.a     IDF                           ECU           6,71W/           7.0W/         40            l              1.0
4.      France (see let No. 5)
S.      France (lote 2 + 4 + 5)
- CCQ2                      Fl          120              22.2            1S              7            5,5
- CCCO                      1           100              16.5           15               5           14.75
- PAC                        n1         30                5.6                         grant
- Private CreditWl          Fn         130oI             24.1!/          5bj                          /.
Total/Average A1              FE          38O0k'           70.4a/         10. 4!13.W                    S"k
AL  SECTlON I (Douala-Edea)                               105.5
Conortium of
6.    - Kuwait Ftud                  Dinar          6.0             21.0           20              5            345/
- Islamic Bank                Dinar ll.       4.9             6.0           20              5            3,5
- Abu Dhabi Fund              Dirha,         16.0             4.4           20              5            3.5
Total/Average                                               s1.4          20              5            3.5
7.       IERD                         US$          48.eJ            48.4S/        20               5          (11.6)
8.      Netherlands
- Goveznent                hfl.          18               6.7           18             10            2.0
- Private Bank             hfl.         100              37.0           10              3           1f175
Total/Average                hfl.         118              43.7           11.2            4.1         10.3
9.      Canada                       Can.4         20@/             16.4          50             10            0
TOTAL SECTION 1I (Edea-Yaounde)                           139.9
GRAND TOTAL:
TOTAL SECTIONS 1 & II (Douala-Yaounde)                             24S.A
sI Foreign financing of the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road (excluding non-construction components such as
techtical assistance and preinvestment studies).
b/ provisional
S/ Excludes Bank financing of US$21.6 million for non-construction project components and capitalized front-end fee.
P Flua Can. $0.5 million (grant) for project monitoring.
at Ixcludes fee of 0.5 percent p.a. for loan administration.






I B R D 15470
M AIl   (                                                       - -         0                                         14                                       JANUARY IBBi
,.____/   N | 4 ER              C R A D                      r   hGffkw-iA itYtPtf        
N~~~ER  '  CHAD    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                    -                       i~~~kl   CHA/,0
Lw,R       f>>R. Ch~                             ? SUiRAF N   |    b      H5Xc  tf  44f  a                        DR
VOLTA )       E                  r        -                  [                 " 'r-
C) 7.     CANEROO              ;                                           N         G   E  R           A AiM NWOM12'
t / C ONGOO   Z A I RNE                                        G  E  R  IA A                                DD
As'/wss',c GeoE,         GAERON  51       \'  50AMRON                                          52
Z A I R Els,
+  /  E/'7' rr PMoro
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                                    A V         Bg
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Road                                                                                                                       90-
Rodd uunder cc.structsir
Roads construcMed urde Irt
previoos projects
EOsed Rood.
-         NotiioaHl                            Bo          eH BR   'V 500 520 R40                                            )t| 
Unpaved Roads:                                    -KLOMETenO                     f  /M_
Nationaio                             0,   20-  HR   00   RB   SOB           *.     rL
------ Distsri                                                YrLsG
Railroads
PRPRe
,,,Parits                              0~o..5< 
IntRrIRofiRaI airports                                                   |
._._-. flnerSRRtiofat bnsdariRes
N  I' G E                        0 / IL A                                                   Mansopf 
_< ~~~~0 /BoS3n BOMEND
t~~~~MR -'Nul DSAMBS/I    W2ER  _
4'        u     TO, eo              /^a, 'I                                             4'h                                             , \
ATLANTIrC  OCEANE                          S-   ;9>'MooJduP
XEQUAT,ORL CGUINEA                          GAB N                                   CONGO
,, BSBINEOEOL  U t ,AR
F-1~~~~~~~~~2






_ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                   IIB R D    1 5 4 7 1 R
Tof 5000                  To0Cum 0oloo                                  1                                         10n                                                               11D0                                                              11080           October1981
~4030                                                                    /                                                                                                                                            UNITED REPUBLIC COF CAMEROON
ffMSa og a                                                        X                                                                                                                                                  FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                    4030F
Y 9;Ab'AS->o,                                                                                                                                                           Douala-Ed4a-Yaounde Road
- -% -~  SECTION I
- rf\SECTION 0P  IAROJECl    I
0-+ i                   \                                                                                             l                                                                 -       SECOSSaR f ROADS
0- .                                                                                                                                                                                             R \  !  0  ,  NAT IONAL CAPITAL
/               tiX-ySNgambe                                                                                               MAJOR TOWNS
0      OT-YR IOWNS
O,R8R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R8h~~~~~~~~~~1R
(=  t5/ 1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
I M~~~~~~~~~~~~k.k                                                      I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loo/,o
L 9 , * _  A  X X  W   Al
N 10D G A1
< 540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N I I E R   A
WJVorld g0nEst S8tslog,ssVi (0,                           K                                                                                                      CERNTRAL AFRICAN
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R /05S080 / 1 1.         ttonnmeof he 06808,5 of
ATLANATC  OCtAiN                                                                                 lfto 0 lOsho,                                                                                                                                       MEROON 5          REPUBLIC
/ /u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bd-mn on-                                    -h p                                                                                                                                   pta; rMeEedgAI4 /'wtAl    
\   10900                                                       08/0                                                                                                                                              C 00  f  EOh ONGO 



