Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20281
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Credit 2364-NP)
May 2,2000
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (NRs)
Appraisal Year 1992 - US$ 1.00 = NRs 42.3
Intervening Year 1996 - US$ 1.00 = NRs 56.8
Completion Year 1999 - US$ 1.00 = NRs 70.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
HMG and NTC Fiscal Year 15 July - 14 July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
FINNIDA       Finnish International Development Agency
GSM           Global System Mobile
HMG           His Majesty's Government
lAS           International Accounting Standards
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IDP           Institutional Development Program
TTU          International Telecommunications Union (Geneva)
JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
MARTS         Multiple Access Radio Transmission
MIS           Management Information System
MoF           Ministry of Finance
MOIC          Ministry of Information and Communications
NTA           Nepal Telecommunications Authority
NTC           Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (subsequently called "Company")
OAG           Office of the Auditor General
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
WLL           Wireless Local Loop
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Director: Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Team Leader: Ritin Singh



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2364-NP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Objectives                                .I
B.            Achievement of Objectives                     .2
C.           Major Factors Affecting the Project                .4
D.           Project Sustainability                      .5
E.   IDA's Performance                                   .5
F.            Cofinancier's Performance                     .7
G.    Borrower Performance                                .7
H.    Assessment of Outcome                                .9
I.   Future Operation                                  .9
J.    Key Lessons Learned                                 .9
K.           Evaluation of Program Objective Categoies .10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:   Project Timetable ...........                                          14
Table 4:     Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8.A. 1 Project Costs .20
Table 8.A.2 Procurement Arrangements .22
Table 8B: Project Financing .22
Table 9:     Economic and Financial Rate of Return (ERR and FRR) .23
Table 10;  Status of Legal Covenants .25
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .27
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .28
APPENDIX A:  Mission's Aide Memoire ......................................        31
APPENDIX B:  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ......................................  35
APPENDIX C:  Map No. 23473 ....................................... 39
This documet has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipiets only in the
performance of teir official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authrizatio.






NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2364-NP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Telecommunications Project in
the Kingdom of Nepal, for which Credit 2364-NP in the amount of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 40.1
million was approved on May 12, 1992 and made effective on December 15, 1992.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999 and approximately SDR 32.7 million was disbursed.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Danish Development Agency (DANIDA); the Department
of International Cooperation, Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (originally called FINNIDA), and the
Nordic Development Fund (NDF).
The ICR was prepared by Ritin Singh and Alberto Cruzat of the Telecommunications and
Informatics Unit of EMTTI, and reviewed by Hans M. Rothenbuhler, Country Director for Nepal, Alastair
J. McKechnie, Sector Director, Energy Sector Unit (SASEG), and Emmanuel Forestier, Manager (CITPO).
The Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR. The draft ICR was sent to
the cofinanciers and comments were invited, but none were received.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in March
1999. It is based on the materials in the project files. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR
by offering views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and preparing its own contribution and evaluation
of the Project's execution.






NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2364-NP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The International Development Association's (IDA) support for Nepal's telecommunications
sector started in 1967, with the preparation of the First Telecommunications Project (Credit 166-NEP),
which was approved by the Board in 1969 and completed in 1973. IDA's involvement continued with
the Second (1973), Third (1978) and Fourth (1985) projects. The Fourth Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated March 30, 1995 rated that project as highly successful and listed the following main
accomplishments:
* improving institutional efficiency through a management consultancy, leading to internal
company reorganization, and computerization of some areas;
e  reduction in unsatisfied demand by addition of more than 30,000 new subscribers lines (more
than double the capacity), improvement of local and long-distance services, and digitization of
the network;
*  improving access to telephone services in rural areas by a major expansion plan using Multiple
Access Radio Transmission (MARTS) technology; and
-  initiation of the sector reform process through a tariff study and the first sector re-organization
seminar.
Project Objectives
2.    The Fifth Telecommunications Project built on the achievement and experience gained under the
previous projects and its main objectives as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
(a)   address network shortages and improve network quality by: (i) increasing telephone
penetration in a balanced manner in urban areas; (ii) completing the provision of
automatic, long distance telephone service in all 75 districts of Nepal; (iii) expanding the
national and international telecommunications infrastructure to cope with increased
traffic from enlarged networks; and (iv) replacing and upgrading obsolete equipment;
(b)   improve Nepal Telecommunications Company's (NTC) performance, especially
regarding corporate planning, administration and management; project management; and
quality of service and efficiency through a balanced institutional development program;
and



- ii -
(c)    address the major sector issues by establishing an agenda for review and reform of the
sector.
3.     IDA dialogue and legal covenants stating the need for HlMG/NTC to employ consultants not later
than December 15, 1992 to carry out an initial sector reform study, triggered a whole process of sector
reform initiatives which reached deeper and further than expected at appraisal.
4.     The project objectives were relevant and broad enough, in relation with the sector reform
process, and was responsive to the evolving political circumstances. The decision to appoint a Project
Supervision Consultant, responsible simultaneously to DANIDA, FIN'NIDA, NDF and IDA facilitated
the borrower/implementing  agency to cope with the complexity  of the Project.   The Fifth
Telecommunications Project was also successful in establishing a good working relationship and
knowledge among cofinanciers: DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF, JICA and IDA.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     The sector policy objectives, as set at appraisal, were met. By the end of the project, a new
Telecommunications Act had been enacted, a sector regulator National Telecommunications Authority
(NTA) was established, NTC has been converted under the Company Act, and the introduction of
competition was initiated through the preparation of tenders to select cellular and wireless local loop
(WLL) service providers. Several new private companies have been licensed by NTA to provide access
to internet, cable TV services, paging services, and modern telecommunications centers in major urban
areas. A chronology of telecommunications sector reforms in Nepal is given in the box below:
1959                Telecommunications Department of Nepal ('TDN) established at the Ministry of Works,
Transport and Communications
1963                Mandate of TDN re-stated in Telecommunications Act 2019
October 1969        TDN transformed into the Nepal Teleconimunications Board (NTB) as a condition of
First IDA Project (Credit 166-NP)
1972                Issued Communications Corporation Act 2028 and a separate Ministry of
Communications is created
June 1975           NTB transformed into the Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC)
December 1990       Tariffs Study
June 1991           First Telecommunications Sector Organization Seminar
November 1993 -     Telecommunications Sector Structure Seminars on Privatization, Regulation and
February 1994       Competition
December 1995       Drafting of new Telecommunications Act and NTA's Rules and Regulations



- iii -
May -June 96          Ve  R~sted* and pbic itres liiaions sumte to Surm Cur stalteidn
process to award WLL and Cellular licenses initiated in late 1995
August 1996           NTC's employees union ends strike by signing an agreement with HMG aimed to
prepare NTC for the new competitive environment, which would include: NTC's
cormmercialization, more autonomy from HMG, and introduction of competition
1997                  On January 1, 1997, new Telecommunications Act 2053 is enacted by the King after
Parliament approval in December 1996
March 1998            Regulatory agency, the Nepal Telecommunications Authority (NTA) established
April 1998 - July 1999   DANIDA funded consultants prepare pre-privatization studies/reports
July 1998 - March     Major studies conducted on: (1) rural telecommunications; (2) frequency management;
1999                  (3) interconnection; (4) sector policy and strategy; (5) tariffs re-balancing; and (6) NTC
improvement plan
1999                  .  NTC transferred into Company Act; and
*  NTA issued licenses for NTC's basic and cellular services.
1999                  Cabinet approves new Telecommunications Policy
1999                  NTA prepares draft Tender for selecting Cellular and WLL service providers
6.     However, it should be noted that in comparison with other countries, Nepal reached a well
advanced stage in establishing a legal/regulatory framework, but has lagged in actual introduction of
competition (in basic/cellular services).
7.     The financial project objectives have been mostly met. NTC produced a higher rate of return and
contributed more funds to its capital investments out of its own cash generation than projected in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
8.     The institutional development objectives for sector regulation were fully met with the separation
of policy making in the Ministry of Information and Communications (MoIC) and the establishment of
the Regulatory Agency, NTA, in March 1998. In the case of NTC, the objectives were achieved in the
areas of staffing ratios, network engineering and planning, operations and maintenance, and service
quality improvements. However, NTC's accounting/financial management, remained weak during the
project implementation period.
9.     Physical project objectives were substantially achieved. The original objective of doubling the
installed capacity by installing approximately 65,000 new telephone lines, was surpassed by adding
around 200,000 new telephone lines, with the total of working lines reaching more than 220,000 by June
1999.
10.    Detailed costs and funding information is included in Tables 8A and 8B. At an earlier stage
during project implementation, FINNIDA arranged for Nordic Development Fund (NDF) to take 50
percent of its original financing.



- Iv -
11.   NTC's autonomy and authority during the Project period was quite limited. Another factor
partially affecting the Project was the frequent changes in Government, resulting in the appointment of
new Ministers and Secretaries for MoIC, which sometimes also resulted in changes in NTC's senior
management. These changes impaired NTC's decision-making process and delayed procurement and
investment decisions. NTC's procedures for the appointment of procurement evaluation committees
resulted in an unpredictable quality of the evaluation reports. This produced delays in procurement
processing.
12.   There was a great improvement in Project implementation, in comparison with the Fourth
Telecommunications Project. This improvement was as a result of the appointment of a project
supervision consultant who represented DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF and IDA (funded by DANIDA). This
intervention served to assist NTC in coordinating different project units. Project implementation was not
affected by major delays, and internal coordination was greatly improved in comparison with the Fourth
Project.
13.   NTC's financial management did not improve as. expected, and covenants on timely financial
reporting and audits were complied with late or not fully complied with. In the period 1992 - 1995, one
of the reasons for the delay in submitting audit reports was the delayed appointment of the auditors by
the Office of the Auditor General (OAG). This aspect was never fully corrected and in most cases,
appointment took place after finalization of the period to be audited. In 1995, the OAG engaged
consultants for an "Institutional Development Project" aimed at improving accounting and financial
practices in the main utilities. As part of this plan, NTC was to subsequently, reduce the time to submit
its Audited Statements from twelve months in 1994/95 to nine and six months in 1995/96 and 1996/97
respectively. These targets were never achieved. It can be concluded that the main reasons for the lack
of real improvement in the accounting/financial areas were: (a) delays by NTC in preparing the financial
statements; (b) insufficient incentives from Government of NTC for good corporate governance and
sound financial management; (c) inadequate emphasis by NTC management on financial management
issues, together with lack of monitoring and supervision of these issues by both NTC management and by
IDA (in earlier projects as well as during initial years of this project); and (d) the lack of commitment to
privatize by NTC's management during the last years of project implementation. As a consequence of
this anti-reform attitude, NTC's management delayed the adoption of International Accounting Standards
(IAS) as an additional factor to delay the privatization of NTC.
14.   The performance of the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory. The Bank was flexible during
project preparation (see para. 5) and HMG fully supported the reform of the sector.
15.   Given the substantial achievements in the sector, institutional and physical objectives of the
project, its high economic rate of return (ERR), and a high probability that project achievements will be
sustained, the project outcome should be considered satisfactory.
Summary of Findings
16.   Some lessons to be learned from this project are:
*  radical sector reform takes time and continued involvement in a sector provides IDA with the
opportunity to support reform step by step under various governments. In addition, labor
unions should be involved at an early stage of reform and their concerns addressed to reduce
resistance to change;
*  at an early stage during project implementation, IDA accepted NTC's expanded investment
plan when HMG had not yet agreed to pursue a privatization strategy. The successful
implementation of this larger investment plan was later used by NTC's new management as a
main argument to delay actual implementation of the reforms and introduction of



- v -
competition, and this resulted in new stalling actions to maintain its monopoly. In retrospect,
IDA lending should have been made contingent to demonstrated firm commitment from main
stakeholders.  Processing of the Credit should have been contingent upon actions by
HMG/NTC demonstrating real ownership of the reform process;
* the efficiency of a government corporation, as measured by its ability to satisfy demand and
introduce service improvements, can be hampered by government salary scales, investment
approvals, and procurement procedures. Only the establishment of a privately owned
commercial company, under the Company Act, operating under suitable regulation, provides
the necessary autonomy to quickly expand service to meet demand and incentives to
employees to become more consumer oriented and competitive;
*  Nepal telecommunications sector, while having successfully advanced in creating the legal
and regulatory framework, has been far too slow in introducing competition, which, as
experience confirms, leads to lower prices and consumer orientation. Earlier IDA emphasis
on the need to implement legal/regulatory reforms leading to a competitive privately led
sector structure could possibly have overcome this problem;
*  the successful private operation of value-added and other marginal telecommunications
services creates new job opportunities, and may reduce staff fears of privatization of the
main operators. It may also provide comfort to potential investors as it provides a track
record of commercial operations, and demonstrates that the legal and regulatory framework
is working satisfactorily;
*  the procurement process would benefit from an early agreement with the borrower
establishing the need to have core specialized staff as key members in each evaluation
committee, and from a more strict procurement planning and implementation, resulting in a
more transparent procurement process. In addition, packaging procurement of equipment in
larger lots, avoiding too many small packages, would eliminate delays resulting from
unexpected procurement difficulties;
*  land acquisition and building construction should be started well in advance, in order to be
ready before equipment installation;
*  NTC's computerization strategy of developing indigenous software, as proposed by
FINNIDA funded consultants, should have been more strongly opposed by IDA; and
*  undertaking the Financial Management Assessment of the borrower during appraisal, and
providing early attention to these issues, would benefit timely improvement of the financial
management capacity of the borrower.  Additionally, serious follow-up of auditor's
qualifications would have avoided the accumulation of issues related to financial
management which occurred towards the end of this Project.






NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2364-NP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    Consistent with HMG's sector strategy, IDA's principal objectives under the project were to
address network shortages and improve service quality, improve NTC's performance, and to support
sector reform by establishing an agenda for reform of the telecommunications sector. Considering
HMG's firm commitment and the actions already taken to promote Sector Reform, IDA Board approved
in September 1995, an Amendment to the Credit Agreement authorizing procurement of additional
switching equipment and further use of funds in sector reform issues. During project implementation,
and using project funds, major Telecom Sector Reform Workshops were organized (1993/1994) which
resulted in an agreed reform agenda, namely, changing to an increasingly competitive sector structure
under enabling legal, policy and regulatory framework. The enactment of the new Telecommunications
Act 2053 (January 1, 1997), the establishment of the Telecommunications Sector Regulator (Nepal
Telecommunications Authority - NTA) in May 1997; the issuance of licenses for NTC for basic and
mobile services (1999), and the preparation of tender documents for new cellular and Wireless Local
Loop (WLL) service providers, were some of the key reform initiatives undertaken by HMG. During the
first half of 1999, HMG completed the transfer of NTC under the Company Act; and in September 1999,
the Cabinet approved the new Telecommunications Policy. Major sector objectives were, thus, achieved
further than anticipated at appraisal.
2.    Specific project objectives as listed in the SAR were to:
*  address network shortages and improve network quality by: (i) increasing telephone
penetration in a balanced manner in urban areas; (ii) completing the provision of automatic,
long distance telephone service in all Nepal's 75 districts; (iii) expanding the national and
international telecommunications infrastructure to cope with increased traffic from enlarged
networks; and (iv) replacing and upgrading obsolete equipment;
*  improve NTC's performance, especially regarding corporate planning, administration and
management; project management; and quality of service and efficiency, through a balanced
institutional development program; and
*  address the major sector issues by establishing an agenda for review and reform of the sector.
3.    The project objectives were relevant and broad enough, in relation with the sector reform
process, and were responsive to the evolving political circumstances. The decision to appoint a Project
supervision consultant, responsible simultaneously to DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF and IDA made possible
for the borrower/implementing agency to cope with the complexity of the project.



- 2 -
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.     The sector policy objectives, as set in the appraisal, were met. By the end of the project, a new
Telecommunications Act has been enacted, a sector regulator (NTA) has been established, NTC has been
converted under the Company Act, and the introduction of competition initiated through the preparation
of tenders to select cellular and WLL service providers. Several new private companies have been
licensed by NTA to provide access to internet, cable TV services, paging services, and modem
telecommunications centers in major urban areas. In recent years, NTC has accelerated its network
development and as of June 1999, had more than 210,000 working telephone lines, compared with an
SAR target of less than 120,000 working lines. Unsatisfied demand for telephone service has been
reduced, and subscribers and the economy in general now benefit from more varied telecommunications
services at closer to cost-based prices.
5.     At the time of appraisal (1991), the Nepal telecom sector had a typical monopolistic structure:
one operator (NTC); no regulatory agency; an outdated telecom law, designed for changing the name and
status of the incumbent operator; the Ministry was the owner, operator and regulator; and there were no
value-added services offered to the public, except for Public Call Offices operated by private
entrepreneurs. During Project implementation, the basic legal and regulatory framework was firmly
established, and the market began to evolve towards a more competitive structure. In comparison with
other countries, Nepal reached a well-advanced stage in legal/regulatory framework, but lagged in actual
introduction of competition in basic and mobile services. In spite of early establishment of the
legal/regulatory framework, there has been a long delay in introducing competitive services. Recent
developments, in particular the issuance of a Telecommunications Policy, provides for international and
long distance services to be liberalized by 2001, and the provision of rural services by NTC and private
operators. This indicates a pattern where the political will is to move ahead with reforms, yet not make
any dramatic changes.
6.     Although the objectives, as set out in the Appraisal were surpassed in terms of establishing the
basic legal/regulatory framework, by the end of the Fifth Project, major steps are still pending: (a) actual
introduction of competition would happen only after successful completion of the transaction to award
licenses for the new cellular and WLL service providers; (b) competition in urban areas should be
parallel with the introduction of private sector participation in the provision of rural services based on a
competitive tendering process; and (c) the stalled process of NTC privatization should be given new
impetus.
7.     The financial project objectives have been mostly met. NTC produced a higher rate of return and
contributed out of its own cash generation more funds to its capital investments than projected in the
SAR. HMG has also benefited fiscally from the sector: growing income taxes are received from NTC
and other private telecommunications services operators, as their subscriber base and revenues grow.1
Additionally, HMG soon may collect the license fees from the new cellular and WLL service providers,
plus the royalty fees of 4 percent of revenue from all telecommunications operators. In summary,
financial objectives were partially achieved.
8.     The basic assumptions for the internal rate of return (LRR) calculations in the SAR were kept
unchanged in the re-estimated calculations. In particular the transformation from financial benefits to
economic benefits was done following the SAR methodology. The re-estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) for the project is 47 percent, which compares favorably with the SAR estimate of 21.7 percent.
I      In 1998, NTC paid to HMG NRs 671 million as income tax; NRs 69 million as telephone ownership tax and NRs 255
million as VAT. NTC collected, on behalf of HMG, NRs 310 million as service charge,, and paid NRs 666 million as dividends
for a total of NRs 1,371.6 million; compared with NRs 229 million income tax, NRs 35.8 million sales tax and NRs 9.5 million
as dividends in 1992 for a total of NRs 274.3 million.



- 3 -
However, this ERR may understate the real ERR, as no consumer surplus was taken into account despite
unsatisfied demand at current tariff levels; no increase in consumer surplus was considered despite
improvement in service quality and expansion of the network, which makes the telephone service more
useful for all subscribers, and no incremental benefit beyond 2000 has been included, although the
infrastructure provided under the project allows connection of more subscribers at low marginal cost.
9.     The re-estimated financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is 29.3 percent, which is higher
than the SAR estimate of 19 percent. A summary of assumptions for the ERR and FRR calculations is
given in Table 9.
10.    The institutional development objectives for sector regulation were fully met with the separation
of policy making in MoIC, and the establishment of NTA in March 1998. In the case of NTC, the
objectives were achieved in the areas of staffing ratios, network engineering and planning, operations and
maintenance, and service quality improvements. As seen from Table 5, staff per 1,000 subscribers was
brought down from 65 in 1991 to 26 in 1998, mainly due to stable staff numbers and expansion of the
network. NTC's accounting/financial management, however, remained weak during the project period.
The major pending issue is to complete the conversion of NTC accounts to international accounting
standards, and to modernize its financial system to resolve the observations raised by the external
auditors. An indication of HMG/NTC's re-taking ownership of the now stalled reform process would be
the development of an action plan to improve NTC's financial management system, and the conversion to
IAS. Therefore, achievement of institutional objectives can be rated partial.
11.    Physical project objectives were substantially achieved. The original objective of doubling the
installed capacity by installing approximately 65,000 new telephone lines, was surpassed by adding
around 200,000 new telephone lines, with the total of working lines reaching more than 220,000 by June
1999. The reason for this performance was higher demand growth than projected, and prices for
switching equipment were much lower than at the time of appraisal. This second factor allowed NTC to
exercise the option to increase supply contracts, rehabilitate more exchanges, and include an additional
41,000 subscriber lines to the 61,000 lines originally included in the SAR. This number of lines, plus
more than 60,000 lines procured by NTC using its own resources and supplier credits, resulted in a total
of 174,500 lines added during the Fifth Telecommunications Project.2 The contracting of the switching
equipment was done between 1993 and 1996, when the process of NTC privatization had not been
initiated. To complete the expansion plan, additional cable network and transmission equipment was
procured afterwards. In retrospect, this rapid expansion plan can be seen as a first NTC action aimed at
restricting possible future competition by saturating the market as much as possible. The need to manage
a much larger network had some impact on NTC institutional capacity, but the managerial problems were
mainly the result of following a wrong computerization strategy (see para. 28).
12.    The provision of rural access was mainly satisfied by additional Multiple Access Radio
Transmission equipment (MARTS) financed under this project. As of the end of the project, MARTS
systems financed under the Fourth and Fifth projects provided more than 4,200 subscribers lines covering
around 800 of the 4,000 Village Development Committees (VDCs) in the country.
2      NTC procured 11,400 lines of re-cycled equipment S-12 ALIC from TeleDanmark; 4,500 lines E-1OB from Alcatel
CIT, as extension of existing contract; 49,000 lines S-12 J-Rack from Alcatel Bell, as extension of existing contract, 105,000
lines EWSD from Siemens under this Credit; and 4,600 lines in small switches from C-DOT, India.



- 4 -
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   It can be noted that during the project period, technology development and competition brought
down unit prices for telecommunications equipment, especially switching equipment. This was neither
under government nor the implementing agency control, but made it possible to increase the project
scope and at the same time reduce its cost. This factor had a substantial positive impact on the
achievement of the physical objectives of the project.
14.   A factor generally subject to government control was that NTC"s autonomy and authority during
the project period was quite limited. After a long labor strike in July 1996, HMG signed an agreement
with NTC's largest staff union promising to provide full autonomy not later than December 1998. This
agreement included a list of issues ranging from formulation of investment plans, managing human
resources, and mobilization of financing sources to representation of unions on the Board, and
privatization of at least 50 percent of the shares. Most of these targets are yet to be achieved. Another
factor partially affecting the Project was the frequent changes in Government, resulting in the
appointment of new ministers and secretaries for MoIC, which sometimes also resulted in changes in
NTC's senior management. These changes impaired NTC's decision-making process due to the need to
obtain frequent approvals from the Minister, and because the Secretary MoIC remains until now as the
Chairman of NTC Board. In particular, this situation has delayed procurement and investment decisions.
It is anticipated that with the transfer under the Company Act, and when the privatization effort is
renewed, these restrictions on NTC will be eliminated.
15.   There were also factors under the implementing agency control (NTC) which had a partial
negative effect on project implementation. NTC's procedures for the appointment of procurement
evaluation committees resulted in an unpredictable quality of the evaluation reports. Instead of creating
and maintaining a core of specialized staff familiar with World Bank procurement rules, NTC sometimes
made ad hoc decisions in each case, which resulted in varied quality of reports. This situation produced
delays in procurement processing, and raised concerns about the transparency of the process.
16.   Among factors normally under NTC control, it can be noted the great improvement in project
implementation, in relation to the Fourth Project, resulting from the appointment of a project supervision
consultant who represented DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF and IDA (funded by DANIDA). This
intervention served to assist NTC in coordinating different project units such as transmission, switching,
outside plant, and civil works. This consultant also issued early warnings to the donors about possible
bottlenecks in project implementation.
17.   NTC's financial management did not improve as expected and covenants on timely financial
reporting and audits were complied with late or not fully complied with. It is the practice of OAG to
rotate the private auditors every two to three years. In some cases, the newly appointed auditors had
recommendations for some specific problems which were different fiom the recommendation, already
implemented, received from the previous auditor. In the period 1992-95, one of the reasons for the delay
in submitting audit reports was the delayed appointment of the auditors by the OAG. This aspect was
never fully corrected and in most cases, appointment took place after finalization of the period to be
audited. In 1995, OAG engaged consultants for an "Institutional I)evelopment Project" aimed at
improving accounting and financial practices in the main utilities. As part of this plan, NTC was to
subsequently, reduce the time to submit its Audited Statements from twelve months in 1994/95 to nine
and twelve months in 1995/96 respectively. These targets were never achieved. It can be concluded that
the main reason for the lack of real improvement in the accounting/financial areas were: (a) delays by
NTC in preparing the financial statements; (b) insufficient incentives from Government of NTC for good
corporate governance and sound financial management; (c) inadequate emphasis by NTC management on
financial management issues, together with lack of monitoring and supervision on financial management



- 5 -
issues by both NTC management and by IDA (in earlier projects as well as during initial years of this
Project), and (d) the lack of commitment with the privatization process by NTC's management during the
last years of project implementation. As a consequence of this anti-reform attitude, NTC's management
delayed the adoption of IAS as an additional factor to delay the privatization of NTC.
18.   Starting in 1995, supervision missions began reporting on specific measures agreed with
NTC/OAG aimed at improving the timeliness and quality of NTC's financial statements; however, no
real improvement can be demonstrated as of today. This situation, which was not critical at the time of
project preparation/appraisal, became critical towards the end of project implementation, when IDA
established a policy of more strict review of Audit reports and follow-up of actions recommended by the
auditors. NTC had difficulty in adjusting to this new environment. In addition, starting with the audit
report submitted in 1997, the auditors issued a long list of observations/recommendations with only a
minor percentage being addressed/corrected before the next audit cycle.  On balance, covenant
compliance is rated as deficient.
D. Project Sustainability
19.   The project achievements in the sector reform areas appear irreversible, especially after the
enactment of the new Telecommunications Act 2053 (1997), the establishment of the sector regulator
(NTA) in 1998, NTC conversion into a company, and Cabinet approval of the Telecom Policy (1999).
The implementing agency (NTC) changed it internal organization and procedures and now is capable of
successfully implementing much larger projects than before. The downside is that NTC has become
more prone to exercise political pressure to keep its monopoly position in the provision of basic services,
using the argument of being able to successfully implement much larger projects which could lead to
demand satisfaction. This argument has gained some political support recently, making it more difficult
to demonstrate the advantages of early sector liberalization. The issuance of the Telecommunications
Policy where the previously agreed structure for the provision of rural services was amended to reflect
NTC' s monopolistic attitude, is also a result of this political pressure. However, the achievements so far,
in the sector and in NTC, are likely to prove sustainable, and the only doubt is about the delay in
establishing a competitive market. In conclusion, project achievements will most likely be sustainable;
however, achievement of full sector reform can be delayed while NTC' s resistance is in place.
E. IDA's Performance
20.   The project was first identified in combination with a 1989 supervision of the Fourth
Telecommunications Project (1588-NP); however, active preparation of the new project only began in
late 1990. As part of project preparation, NTC engaged consultants to conduct a tariffs study (December
1990). Part of the delay in starting project preparation was due to the need to reach agreement with
HMG/NTC on the extent of sector reforms to be included. This was greatly advanced through a
Workshop held in Kathmandu in June 1991, where, for the first time, issues such as liberalization, sector
regulation, and private sector participation were openly discussed. At that time, these concepts were
strange and widely opposed; however, HMG agreed to include in the project processing a tariffs study
and during project implementation, the organization of further sector reform  seminars.  The
implementation of the recommendations of the tariffs study was established as a condition for
Negotiations, which took place in March 1992, after HMG approved new telecom tariffs with validity
from November 17, 1991. Major steps in sector reform took place in the following five - six years;
however, there was strong political opposition to new tariff increases in local rates. This reality justified
the approach taken by IDA in the Identification - Preparation stages, of having the local tariffs increase



- 6 -
as a condition of Negotiations. Therefore, the Identification - Preparation stages should be rated as
satisfactory.
21.   The project was appraised in July 1991, with Negotiations taking place in Washington during
March 1992. At that time, the major issues were: (a) to secure, by June 30, 1993, cofinancing from
DANIDA and FINNIDA, which was finalized successfully but with a delay of one year. Due to the
economic recession that Finland suffered at that time, FINNIDA arranged for the Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) to take 50 percent of its originally agreed share of NTC financing, and it was agreed that the
same project supervision consultant be funded by DANIDA, selected and monitored by IDA, would also
represent NDF in project implementation issues; (b) to reduce the arrears from HMG, which was
achieved through a down payment in 1992 of NRs 12 million, paid by MoF, and three installments due in
1993, 1994 and 1995. Final resolution on this issue was reached in 1994 through an agreement by which
HMG's arrears to NTC were settled against payments due from NTC to MoF for debt service; and (c)
IDA established as a condition for Negotiations to demonstrate sufficient progress in the procurement of
the switching equipment. Considering that this was the largest single tender and the technical complexity
associated with it, it can be seen in retrospective as the right decision taken by the Bank.
22.   The financial package for the project was appropriate and the credit amount adequate, based on
prices and other information available at the time of appraisal. In retrospect, given the fall in prices
especially for switching equipment, the project objectives could have been achieved by a US$ 5.0 million
smaller IDA credit. This development was not easy to foresee at the time of appraisal.
23.   IDA's relations during appraisal with other donor agencies that helped finance the project, i.e.,
DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF, and JICA, were excellent. IDA, DANIDA and FINNIDA had common
project preparation missions. as well as appraisal and major project supervisions. During project
execution, DANIDA shifted gradually its focus from the network expansion targets to sector reform
issues, while FINNIDA, after finalizing its cofinancing of transmission equipment and computer software
development, officially withdrew from supporting the telecommunications sector in Nepal. Since the
beginning of its participation, NDF made clear its policy of no direct monitoring/supervision of project
implementation, and delegated the role to the World Bank.
24.   The project implementation plan and performance indicators for NTC (Table 5) were adequate.
In retrospect, the projected performance of NTC for the early years was optimistic. In later years,
however, NTC's performance greatly surpassed expectations. The project was appraised by the same
staff that identified and prepared it. IDA's performance during appraisal was satisfactory.
25.   Project implementation was not affected by major delays, and internal coordination was greatly
improved in comparison with the Fourth Telecornmunications Project as a result of the appointment of
the supervision consultant funded by DANIDA, who was resident in Nepal from late 1992 until mid-
1994, and who afterwards visited NTC every three months for periods of around four - five weeks, until
the end of 1998.
26.   The sector reform component was one of the more successful aspects of this project. The Sector
Workshop of June 1991 was followed by the workshops of the Telecom Sector Reform Consultancy
(November 1993 - February/March 1994) and by Donors Coordination Meetings and Country
Assistance Strategy Meetings, which all served to promote actions in pushing the sector reform agenda.
Additionally, the availability of the Japanese Grant Fund TF029212, which was approved on July 10,
1995, provided a main driving force in implementing sector reform actions. The main outcomes were:
(a) enactment of the new Telecom Act 2053, on January 1, 1997; (b) preparation of Rules and
Regulations for the Regulator; (c) issuance in 1995 of licenses to internet (ISP) and cable TV service
providers; (d) establishment of the Nepal Telecommunications Authority (NTA), the new telecom sector
regulator; (e) transfer of NTC to the Company Act in 1999; (f) preparation studies for rural telecom



- 7 -
development; and (g) starting of the process of NTC privatization and preparation of tenders to award
licenses to new service providers in cellular and WLL technologies.
27.   IDA's supervision of project implementation was estimated at appraisal as requiring three
missions per year for the first three years, followed by two missions annually after that. This estimate
proved fairly accurate (see Table-12). Supervision was conducted by staff which included some that
prepared and appraised the project, plus regular contacts through e-mail, phone, letters, and fax, between
the Bank, the Borrower, the implementing agency (NTC), and the Regulator (NTA). Most of these
reports and other information were also exchanged with cofinanciers to facilitate coordinated
implementation of the project as a whole. In addition, cofinanciers participated in many missions, in
particular at the time of main events such as Sector Workshops, Donor Coordination Meetings, etc.
However, IDA's supervision missions could have raised issues related to procurement and improvement
of the accounting/financial management (see para. 27 and 28) more strongly at an earlier stage of project
implementation. On the whole, IDA's performance during the supervision stage was satisfactory.
F. Cofinanciers Performance
28.   The project was cofinanced by DANIDA, FINNIDA, NDF and JICA. DANIDA participation
was originally focused on outside plant cables, ducts and training of the Outside Plant Department staff
of NTC. In this specialization, DANIDA was able to introduce new technologies such as a Geographical
Information System (GIS), which has a special use in telecommunications companies for outside plant
planning, and which DANIDA was also separately funding for other branches of HMG. During project
implementation, DANIDA's focus was changed; becoming more interested in sector reform issues. This
new focus resulted in: (a) a direct Danish Government Trust Fund given to HMG/MoIC in 1995, to
finance consultants who prepared a tender document for awarding licenses to new cellular and WLL
service providers; and (b) a direct grant agreement with HMG, signed in 1997, by which DANIDA
funded a privatization consulting firm to begin the NTC privatization process. FINNIDA (replaced by
"Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Development Department"), together with NDF, funded
transmission equipment, both fiber optical cables and microwave, and a consultancy aimed at developing
NTC's Corporate Data Base (CDB). The company's computerization approach (CDB) promoted by
these consultants was through training NTC's engineers to become high level computer systems
development experts. This approach was discussed many times with IDA, which was in favor of a more
direct procurement of off-the shelf products, requiring only custom tailoring for specific NTC needs, but
with the potential for much shorter implementation time. As mentioned in para. 11, this was not the
optimal strategy and it was the source of problems in billing, accounting and financial systems, which are
yet to make use of modern software tools. Towards the end of the project and after finalization of the
Finnish consultancy, NTC decided to procure semi-finalized products. In part, this decision was
triggered by the loss of time and of many of the highly trained engineers. JICA continued with its
approach of delivering turn-key contracts to Japanese contractors, with final systems turn-over to NTC
for operation at commissioning. On the whole, the performance of the cofinanciers was satisfactory.
G. Borrower Performance
29.   In the period of time from Project Identification to Board presentation, I1MG and NTC strongly
supported project preparation by: (a) being willing to discuss in a public forum and supporting reform
issues such as liberalization, competition, and privatization, during the First Telecom Sector Organization
Seminar, held in Kathmandu in June 1991; (b) contributing to the Tariffs Study of December 1990, and
approving it was a condition for Negotiations - the first step of tariff adjustment (new tariffs valid since
November 17, 1991); (c) agreeing on a plan to pay for HMG arrears to NTC, including an installment



- 8 -
plan; and (d) agreeing on the terms for a sector reform consultancy to be included in the project.
HMG/NTC's performances during project preparation should, therefore, be considered highly
satisfactory.
30.    After processing the initial tender for switching equipment, NTC followed with preparation of
some 45 other tenders. It has been NTC's policy to procure equipment in separate lots according to
technology, and use its engineering capabilities to integrate the systems,, instead of procuring full systems
under "turn-key" contracts. This decision resulted in lower costs due to savings in salaries of foreign
experts who would be otherwise engaged in system design and installation, as shown in the case of JICA-
funded system which was given to NTC fully installed. However, this policy has the downside of forcing
NTC to manage a large number of tenders/contracts of different technologies. NTC had special problems
with two of the 45 tenders processed under this project.3
31.    All institutional and financial performance covenants were complied with.  NTC's financial
management, however, did not improve as expected and covenants on timely financial reporting and
audits were complied with late or not fully complied with (see para. 17 and 18).
32.    HMG's support for the sector reform continued during project implementation throughout the
various steps mentioned in a previous paragraph: Workshops of the Telecom Sector Reform Consultancy
(November 1993 - February/March 1994), preparation of new Telecom Act 2053 on January 1, 1997,
and Rules and Regulations for the Regulator; issuance in 1995 of licenses to internet (ISP) and cable TV
service providers; establishment of the Nepal Telecommunications Authority (NTA), the new telecom
sector regulator in March 1998; transfer of NTC to the Company Act in 1999; preparation of studies for
rural telecom development; starting of the process of NTC privatization; and tendering of cellular and
WNLL licenses for new service providers. However, some specific measures were more difficult to
implement, such as approving the second step of local tariff adjustment, which had been agreed at
Negotiations, or providing actual autonomy to NTC, as agreed with NTC's unions after the strikes of
1996. The latter may be implemented now after the transferring of NTC to the Company Act in early
1999.
33.    Some of the events which had a major negative impact on sector reform implementation were not
under the control of HMG or NTC. Vested and public interest litigations were filed in Kathmandu in
May/July 1996 which resulted in a delay of more than two years in the issuance of licenses to new
service providers. One litigation was related with the issuance by [HMG of a letter of intent for the
provision of cellular services in 1994, a process conducted without the knowledge of IDA. The other two
litigations argued against the tendering process or specific provisions in the tender, which had been
prepared by Danish consultants hired directly by HMG in 1995. On April 24, 1998, the Courts instructed
NTA to initiate the re-bidding for these licenses.
3       (a) due to climatic conditions in Nepal, the lightning protection of the switching equipment should be critically
coordinated with the protection at the Main Distribution Frame (MDF). Switching equipment previously procured by NTC from
Belgium had a major problem in this respect, resulting in many subscriber line-cards burned every month, with a peak during the
monsoon season. Procurement of new MDF protection, after the switching manufacturing company recognized its inability to
correct the problem, proved to be a difficult process, which was successfully completed only after re-bidding, when NTC
obtained a new product, using a new technology, from a new supplier to NTC; (b) poles had originally been included in the
DANIDA financing, however, due to changes in internal DANIDA rules requiring a higher percentage of Danish component,
NTC asked the Bank to finance this item and a tender was floated in May 1994. After receiving from suppliers several
complaints to the bid evaluation report, and after NTC Board appointed a new Evaluati.on Conunittee, the final recommendation,
accepted by the Bank, was for NTC to re-bid and finance with its own resources. This was one of a number of cases in this
project, when NTC submitted to the Bank two evaluation reports with different recommendations. These cases always resulted in
unnecessary delays in the procurement process, made even more difficult by complaints from suppliers who were aware of these
contradictory views.



- 9 -
34.   HMG/NTC support in implementing reforms in the sector was stronger than in accepting changes
internally in NTC to improve its procurement process, and in particular the financial and accounting
systems, as described above. Additionally, towards the end of Project implementation, some issues were
not perceived by NTC at the same level of importance as by IDA, and therefore were left unresolved.
Overall, HMG/NTC' s implementation performance should be considered marginally satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
35.   Given the achievements of sector, institutional and physical objectives of the project, its high
ERR, and a high probability that project achievements will be sustained, the project outcome should be
considered satisfactory.
I. Future Operation
36.   NTC has accelerated the connection of new subscribers, having reached more than 40,000 new
lines connected in 1997. This is more than in any previous full year and will lead to a more efficient use
of NTC assets, including the ones installed under the project. The waiting time for SLT phone
connection has been greatly reduced in most areas (in areas with new installed exchanges a subscriber an
obtain almost instant connection using the own your telephone (OYT) scheme, from periods of around 10
years at the time of project appraisal. NTC's service quality is being further improved, and new
procedures for efficient handling of customer complaints have been introduced nationwide. NTC's
recent performance indicates that the physical components of the project will be operated in an efficient
manner. Therefore, NTC operations can be assessed as satisfactory.
37.   The future performance of NTC and the project, could be monitored by the same indicators as
agreed for the project (see Table 5). The main monitoring will, however, be conducted by the regulator,
NTA, as part of its regulatory functions. NTA's monitoring of all the operators in the sector will include:
service quality, compliance with license conditions, tariffs, finances, etc. There is, therefore, very little
scope for a separate follow-up or monitoring by IDA on NTC' s operations.
38.   For sector reform, IDA has confirmed to HMG/NTA and NTC its readiness to continue
providing assistance on a whole range of policy, regulatory and financing issues that Nepal is facing in
the process of moving towards an increasingly private-led and competitive telecommunications sector
structure. After the recent approval of the telecom sector policy, IDA's continued participation is
contingent to HMG's firm commitment to further sector reform as demonstrated by issuing licenses to
the cellular and WLL service providers, utilizing market mechanisms for the provision of rural service
areas by new private entities, and renewed focus on NTC privatization process.
J. Key Lessons Learned
39.   Some lessons to be learned from this project are:
*  radical sector reform takes time and continued involvement in a sector provides IDA with the
opportunity to support reform step by step under various governments. In addition, labor
unions should be involved at an early stage of reform and their concerns addressed to reduce
resistance to change;
*  early during project implementation, IDA accepted NTC's expanded investment plan when
HMG had not yet agreed to pursue a privatization strategy. The successful implementation
of this larger investment plan was later used by NTC's new management as a main argument



- 10-
to delay actual implementation of the reforms and introduction of competition, and resulted
in new stalling actions to maintain its monopoly. In retrospect, IDA lending should have
been made contingent to demonstrated firm commitment from main stakeholders. Processing
of the Credit should have been contingent upon actions by HIG/NTC demonstrating real
ownership of the reform process;
* the efficiency of a government corporation, as measured by its ability to satisfy demand and
introduce service improvements, can be hampered by government salary scales, investment
approvals, and procurement procedures. Only the establishment of a privately owned
commercial company, under the Company Act, operating under suitable regulation, provides
the necessary autonomy to quickly expand service to rmeet demand and incentives to
employees to become more consumer oriented and competitive;
*  Nepal telecommunications sector, while having successfully advanced in creating the legal
and regulatory framework, has been far too slowr in introducing competition, which, as
experience confirms, leads to lower prices and consumer orientation. Earlier IDA emphasis
on the need to implement legalUregulatory reforms leading to a competitive privately led
sector structure, could possibly have overcome this problem;
*  the successful private operation of value-added and other marginal telecommunications
services creates new job opportunities and may reduce staff fears of privatization of the main
operators. It may also provide comfort to potential investors, as it provides a track record of
commercial operations and demonstrates that the legal and regulatory framework is working
satisfactorily;
*  the procurement process would benefit from an early agreement with the borrower
establishing the need to have a core of specialized staff, as key members in each evaluation
committee, and from a more strict procurement planning and implementation; resulting in a
more transparent procurement process. In addition, packaging procurement of equipment in
larger lots, avoiding too many small pack-ages, would eliminate delays resulting from
unexpected procurement difficulties;
*  land acquisition and building construction should be started. well in advance, in order to be
ready before equipment installation;
*  NTC's computerization strategy of developing indigenous software, as proposed by
FRNNIDA funded consultants, should have been more strongly opposed by IDA; and
*  undertaking the Financial Management Assessment of the borrower during appraisal, and
providing early attention to these issues, would benefit timely improvement of the financial
management capacity of the borrower.  Additionally, serious follow-up of auditor's
qualifications would have avoided the accumulation of issues related to financial
management which occurred towards the end of this Project.
K. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories
40.   The project had no specific social objectives; however, it included a major component dealing
with rural telecommunications development, which is likely to have -beneficial social impact, e.g. by
improving telecomrnunications in rural and other areas, some previously without telephone service,
which should facilitate access to medical care, HIMG's agencies, etc. The numerous private operators
established in the telecom sector, have also created new job opportunities in Nepal. Further, by



- 11 -
supporting Nepal's economic development, e.g. in the textile export and tourism industries that are both
telecommunications and labor intensive, the project would contribute to alleviation of poverty.
41.    The project was given a "C" environmental rating and its environmental impact was expected to
be minimal. However, the project should have some beneficial environmental effects, as improved
telecommunications promotes efficiency in all sectors, particularly in the transport sector by allowing
more efficient use of vehicles thus reducing the number of trips.
42.    The main  achievement of the project has been  the  gradual opening  of Nepal's
telecommunications market to private operators through the Telecommunications Act 2053 (1997).
Before 1997, there were only private entrepreneurs operating telecom service centers. By the end of the
project in 1999, there were a number of private companies providing telecom service centers, cable TV,
paging, data transmission, internet access, and other services. The project's private sector development
objective has, thus, been greatly advanced.



-12-
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro Policies                                     0               0                VI5
Sector Policies                   /                                                0 
Financial Objectives              0                                0                a
Institutional Development         E                                E [1
Physical Objectives               v               o                                  l O
Poverty Reduction                 E                               El
Gender Issues                                                                       V   '
Other Social Objectives           0                 
Environmental Objectives          0                0               0
Public Sector Management          E                V               E                a
Private Sector Development                        V/              E 
Other (specify)                   [1              [1               12
Identification                    
Preparation Assistance                                                            a/ 
Appraisal                        [1                                                O 
Supervision                     .                                                 0
Preparation                                                                       1
Implementation                                                                     0 
Covenant Compliance               
Operation (if applicable)                                 0                        [1
_~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding operations
1. Telecornununications Project  Assist IHMG in the initial structuring of the Telecom  1969  Completed
(I) for US$ 1.7 million (Credit    Sector by transforming the Telecommunications          1976
166 - NP)                    Department of Nepal (TDN) into the Nepal
Telecommunications Board (NTB), which worked
under the Ministry of Works, Transport and
Communications.
2. Second Teleconrmunications  Under this Project, HMG issued the Communications  1973    Completed
Project for US$ 5.5 million   Corporation Act 2028 (1972) which created a                 1982
(Credit 397 - NP)             separate Ministry of Communications (MoC) and in
June 1975, created under this Act the Nepal
Telecommunications Corporation (NTC), which
lasted until 1999, when NTC was transferred under
the Company Act.
3. Third Telecommunications    Assist HMG in expanding the telecommunications    1978     Completed
Project for US$ 14.5 million  system by 25,000 lines, and expanding provision of          1985
(Credit 799 - NP)             services to main cities outside the Kathmandu Valley.
4. Fourth Telecommunications   Provision of Telecomrnunications services was     1985     Completed
Project for US$ 22 million    doubled, reaching more than 60,000 lines by 1992,           1994
(Credit 1588 - NP)            and finalizing the first East - West microwave long
distance transmission facilities. This Project was
cofinanced with DANIDA (Denmark), FINNIDA
(Finland) and JICA (Japan).
Tariffs Study conducted in December 1990. First
Telecom Sector Organization Seminar held in
Kathmandu, June 17 - 18, 1991.
Following operations
1. Telecommunications Sector   Assist HMG in the transition to a more competitive  1999   Under
Reform Project (NP-PE-50671)   and private sector led environment, by introducing         preparation
competition by private provision of cellular and WLL
services, by promoting the creation of new private
rural companies, and by privatizing NTC.
Additionally, provide funding for strengthening of
the Nepal Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
(NTA), and assist in improving its administrative and
technical capabilities to plan and control the use of
radio frequency spectrum, including the
establishment of a computerized management and
monitoring system.



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Initial EPS)*                                              1989
Preparation*                                   1991 - 1992                 August 8 - 31, 1990
Appraisal*                                                                July 12- 30, 1991
Negotiations                                   1992                       March 16 - 20,1992
Board Presentation                             1992                       May 12, 1992
Signing                                        1992                       July 15, 1992
Effectiveness                                  1992                       December 15, 1992
Mid-term review                                June 1995                  December 1, 1995
Project Completion                             December 31, 1998          December 31, 1998
Credit/Loan Closing                            June 30, 1999              June 30, 1999
* These activities were conducted in missions combined with the supervision of the Fourth Telecommunications Project
(Credit 1588-NP.)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousands)
Appraisal Estimate | 5,SOO0    16,500    30,00        41,000    47,000    55,000       55,000  55,000
Actual                   701     12,432    26,823    36,626    41,459    45,391    46,249  53,000
Actual as % of          12.7       75.3       89.4       89.3       88.2      82.5       84.1    96.4
Estimate
Date of Final                                        October 31, 1999
Disbursement



Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
8991  *,1992~~~   ~        199.3~                                                                           ~
*X9H~~~~~~eIu                                  MR        Aqi -I *Bi-R        AbA1         SAR      Acis    *ARe    v~             *-R           AAISI                Atau       AdU
1. Network Development
(a) Exchange Capacity - year-end (Lines)      75,000      78,000    77,160    82,000       77,850    94,000    85,203      112,000    101,358    130,000   144,542    139,000    200,884    230,162
(b) InstaDed Lines during year                             3,000    (1,300)     4,000        690     12,000      7,353      18,000    16,155      18,000    43,184      9,000     56,342     34,278
(c) Working Lines - year end                  62,000      65,000    67,315    73,000       70,575    80,000    75,637      92,000     82,603     106,000   112,645    116,000    153,782    181,302
(d) Fill Ratio %                                  83        83.3       87.2      89.0        90.7      85.1       88.8        82.1      81.5        81.5      77.9       83.5       76.6       78.8
(e) Telephone Density                                                0.34%                 0.35%                0.38%                  0.41%                0.55%                  0.73%      0.84%
(WorkingLines/100 population)
2. Quality of Service
(a) Avergare Faults/100 Working Lines             16          15         13        14          13        13         14         12         20          11        19         10
Month
(b) % Faults Restored within 48 hours            n.a.       50.0       91.3      52.0        89.3      54.0       85.6        56.0       86.0       58.0      83.0        59.0
(c) Cal Cornpletion rate (%)                                  50       n.a.        52         n.a        54         31         56         39          58        42        n.a.
(a) Staff                                       3,889       3,957     3,537                 3,493                3,695                  3,757                4,078                 4,213      4,382
(b) Staff/1.000 Working Lines                     65          62        54         59          52        55        49          50         47          47        40         46         31         26        1
4. Financial Indicators                                                                                                                                                                                      U1
(a) Revenue/Working Line (US$)                   352         327       451        424         569       401       529         396        540         361       509        359        437        372
(b) Operating Cost/Working Line-year (US$)       197         203       200        205         201       200        193        215        221         223       214        203        194        165
(c) Operating Cost/Working Line-year                                    99                    112                  102                   123                   122                   116         99
(US$)w/o Depreciation
(c) Self-financing Ratio (%) (1)                  28           7        100        45          86        29        131         26         25          36        44         49        136         72
(d) Debt Service Coverage Ratio (2)               1.2         1.1       1.8       1.5         1.7        1.7       2.4         2.0        1.7        2.2        1.6        2.3        3.2        2.2
(e) Rate of Retumn on Operating Assets (%) (3)    16          15         22        23          34        24         38         21         36          16        34         12         31         29
Exchange Rate US$ I = NRs yz (year - end)         37.00                 43.55                 45.05                49.59                  50.94                 56.80                 57.30      68.25
Revenue in NRs * 000's                          807,000     927,000  1,364,240  1,394,000   1,817,000  1,591,000  1,905,000   1,855,000  2,147,000   2,173,000  2,677,000  2.384,000  3,320,000   3,911,000
Expenses in NRs * 000's                         451,000     548,000              621,000               701,000               827,000              1,046,000            1,313,000
1 Net of debt service, taxes, dividends, and working capital increases. Percent of the annual capital expenditure.
2. Net internal cash generation before interests, divided by interest plus amortizaion.
3. Operating profit divided by average value of the Operating Assets.



-16-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for the operational phase of the Project were not included in tlhe SAR or the President's
Memorandum. The same indicators as agreed for the implementation phase (Table 5) and any other
parameters included in NTC' s license or agreed with the Regulator (NTA), however, could be used to
monitor future performance of NTC. In particular, the monthly NTC MIS report, which version for the
month of March 2055 (January/February 1999) is included as Attachment 3 to the Aide Memoire dated
March 28, 1999 (see Appendix A to this ICR). It contains detailed information about NTC's network
development, staff, quality of service, efficiency, financial status, and maintenance.
NTC'S CORPORATE MISSION
Provide quality telecommunications services so that customers are satisfied and all people in Nepal have
access to telephone by 2001.
Quality means:
* the service is available when desired;
* a high percentage of successful calls attempts;
* a clear, good quality connection; and
* value-added services are available.
Telecommunications services include:
* local, domestic long distance and international telephone services;
* data, text, telex and telegraph services; and
* international transit services.
Satisfied customer means:
* meeting customer's needs timely and conveniently;
* the services are reasonably priced; and
* problems are resolved quickly and conveniently.
Access for all people in Nepal means:
* telephone and other services to all people who desire services at cost-recovery prices are provided
readily; and
* both in urban and rural areas, people will have easy access to public phones.
NTC's Corporate Goals:
(a) to meet market demand by providing 310,000 lines by year 2000;
(b) effective and efficient use of manpower resources;
(c) to achieve and maintain international quality standards;
(d) to generate funds to meet debt service obligations and part of capital investment; and
(e) to achieve and maintain a rate of return of 15 percent on re-valued fixed operating assets.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
I~~~~~~~~~~
N                                                                    io'm 
Telecommunications Sector  First open public discussion of            Completed during    Triggered discussion about sectoral issues
Organization Seminar, June  telecommunications sector issues such as:  Fifth Project      beyond NTC and Ministry of Communications
17 - 18, 1991             cross-subsidization, regulation,           preparation
telecommunications Act, international
settlements, private sector participation,
liberalization, privatization and tariffs
2   Telecommunications Sector  To propose to HMG alternative sector       Completed under      Through two public Workshops, the consultants
Structure                 structures, involving different degrees of  Fifth IDA Project    proposals were widely disseminated and
First Workshop held in   private sector participation, liberalization, and               discussed, contributing to establishing the
KsthmaoruksNovhember 10   comment on needed regulatory capacity,                         l appropriate atmosphere for the sector change
Kathmandu, Novemibef Io -  provision of rural services and financing                     implemented towards the end of the Project.
I1. 1993                  mechanisms, and tariffs re-balancing                            The Plenary Assembly of Participants
Second Workshop held in    requirements for each alternative                                  Plenary Assemmendationts
Kathmandu, February 28 -                                                                  submitted its Recommendations to HMG on
March 1, 1994                                                                             NTC Privatization and Sector Structure.
3   Introduction of WLL        Assist NTC's engineers in becoming familiar    Completed under  NTC was able to prepare tender documents and
technology in Nepal,      with new technologies, such as WLL and      Fifth IDA Project    implement new technologies.
December 1995             digital cellular
4   Drafting of new            To prepare, together with local legal      Completed under      New Telecom Act enacted on January 1, 1997
Telecommunications Act,    consultants, text for New Telecommunications   Fifth IDA Project
December 1995             Law                                        Funded under
PHRD Grant
_ _____________________                                               TF029212
5   Organization of Regulator,   To prepare proposal for the structure and job  Completed under  The Nepal Telecommunications Authority was
December 1995             description of the future Regulator         Fifth IDA Project    established in March 1998.
Funded under
PHRD Grant
TF029212
6   Use of Geographical        To explore use of GIS technology in the    Completed under      NTC integrated this new technology into its
Information System (GIS),   Outside Plant planning of NTC             Fifth [DA Project    Outside Plant activities
1994 - 1995                                                          Funded under
DANIDA Grant



g  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wf
7   Rural Telecom              Study made for the Regulator (NTA).       Completed under     Proposed appropriate technological solutions
Development Plan,                               .Fifth IDA Project    and sector structure to support private
July - September 1998     To propose a financially viable alternative for                patiiato in th poionfruasevc.
the provision of rural services by privately  Funded underr         r
owned enterprises.                        PHRD Grant
TF029212
8   Socio-Economic Impact of   To study the socio-economic impact of the  Completed under    Proposes methods for calculating the economic
Rural Telecommunications,  introduction of rural services            Fifth IDA Project    benefit and analyses the impact of rural
1996 - 1998                                                         Funded under        telecom.
DANIDA Grant
9   Rural Telecom              Study prepared for NTC, to analyze the    Completed under     Estimates the financing required and most
Development Plan, 1998    financial and technical viability of rural  Fifth IDA Project    appropriate technology for NTC rural
telecom.                                                      development plan.
10  NTC Institutional          Included development of a Corporate Data  Completed under     The software part of the Corporate Data Base
Development Plan -        Base, and improvement of NTC's MIS         Fifth IDA Project    program was funded by FINNIDA from
Corporate Data Base       reporting system                                               Finland, DANIDA from Denmark funded the
throughout Fifth Project                                                                 Supervision Consultant who actively                 a)
implementation                                                                           participated in these actions, while IDA
provided support in financing the hardware and
guiding the consultancies.
11  NTC Improvement Plan       To identify NTC's major constraints to    Completed under     Assisted NTC in re-thinking their internal
Throughout Fifth Project  effective management, in order to suggest and    Fifth IDA Project    organization and procedures, in particular in the
Implementation            implemrient an improvement Plan to remove                      areas of Customer Serviccs anda e
l    l                     constraints and improve overall management.                    FinanciaVAccounting Management,
12  Project Planning and       Project supervision consultant, representing  Completed under  Major improvement in coordination of project
Implementation; studies   IDA - DANIDA and FINNIDA, assisted NTC   Fifth IDA Project    implementation, resulting in more efficient use
conducted under the General  in in-depth technical supervision of the Project.           of material and staff resources.
Project Supervision       This consultant also prepared and implemented
several specific studies dealing with: project    Funded by
coordination and planning, and formulation of   DANIDA
investment plans.
13  Review and Updating of     To assist NTC in preparing a Tariffs Study to    Completed under  Refreshed view of cost per service and need to
1990 Tariffs Study        support its request of tariffs review to be  Fifth IDA Project    re-balance tariffs in view of coming
September. 1998 - August   submitted to the Regulator (NTA)                             competition.
1999                    I



14  NTC Interconnection Plan,   To assist NTC in identifying the investment  Completed under    Identified and quantified investment needed in
September - November      necessary to provide interconnection to new  Fifth IDA Project   transmission, toll switching and billing systems
1998                     basic/cellular service providers.                             necessary to provide interconnection.
15  Frequency Management,     To assist MoIC in planning the modernization   Completed under  Produced proposal for the structure of the new
September - November      of the Frequency Management Division,     Fifth IDA Project    Frequency Management Unit, its relation with
1998                     including an estimate of necessary investment.                MoIC and NTA, including estimated
investment and training required.
16  New Telecom Policy,       To draft a new telecom Sector Policy to be  Completed under   Draft Policy paper submitted to NTAS - MoIC
September 1998 - January   submitted to MoIC and Cabinet.           Fifth IDA Project    and Cabinet.
1999
t.



Table 8.A.1. Project Costs
1. Equipment & Services             5.5 |        80.0 | 85.5 |      1.6 |       8.2 |    9.8 |      7.1 |       88.2 |     95.3 |      0.0 |     54.5        54.5|
Telephone Exchanges               1.5 |        26.0 | 27.5 |      0.0 |      2.5 |     2.5 |      1.5 |       28.5 |     30.0 |      0.0 |     27.5 |      27.5|
Transrnission                     1.5 |        23.5 | 25.0 |      0.0 |      2.6 |     2.6 |      1.5         26.1       27.6        0.0        6.5         6.5
Outside Plant                     25           23.5     260       1 4         2 3      37         3.9         25.S       29.7       0.0        13.0        13.0
Customer Premises                 0.0           2.5      2.5      0.2        0.0       0.2        0.2          2.5        2.7       0.0         2.5         2.5
Office & Training                 0.0           1.0      1.0      0.0        0.3      0.3         0.0          1.3        1.3       0.0         1.0         1.0
Power, Vehicles & Misc.           0.0           3.5      3.5      0.0        0.5      0.5         0.0          4.0        4.0       0.0         4.0        4.0
2. Civil Works                      9.0           5.0     14.0      2.6         1.0      3.6       11.6          6.0       17.6        0.0        0.0         0.0
Outside Plant Ducting             3.0           3.0      6.0      0.0         1.0      1.0        3.0          4.0        7.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Building & Sites                  6.0           2.0      8.0      2.6        0.0       2.6        8.6          2.0       10.6       0.0         0.0        0.0
3. Consultanciesn                    0.0          3.0      3.0      0.3         0.3      0.6        0.3          3.3        3.6        0.0        0.5         0.5
Management                        0.0           0.0      0.0      0.3         0.0      0.3        0.3          0.0        0.3       0.0         0.0        0.0
Project Support                   0.0           3.0      3.0      0.0        0.3       0.3        0.0          3.3        3.3       0.0         0.5        0.5             N.
Total Base Cost                     14.5         88.0    102.5
Physical Contingency              1.5           4.5      6.0
Price Contingency                 3.0           5.0      8.0
Total Project Cost                  19.0         97.5    116.5      4.5         9.5     14.0    19.0         97.5       116.5          0.0       55.0        55.0
Int. During Construction          6.5           1.0 |    75
TOTAL COST                        25.5          98.5 |  124.0                                   25.5        98.5       124.0



Project Costs (contd...)
1. Equipment & Services                    0.0 |         12.0 |     12.0 |     0.0 |       11.0 |    11.0 |        0.0 |8.5 |                  8.5 |      7.1 |2.2 |9.3|
Telephone Exchanges                                                                                                                                                 1.5 |1.0       2.5
Transmission                                                                 0.0         11.0      11.0          0.0           8.5          8.5         1.5          0.1           1.6
Outside Plant                           0.0            12.0      12.0                                                                                   3.9          0.8           4.7
Customer Prenisess                                                                                                                                      0.2          0.0           0.2
Office & Training                                                                                                                                       0.0          0.3           0.3
Power, Vehicles & Misc.                                                                                                                                 0.0          0.0           0.0
2. Civil Works                             0.0             3.2       3.2       0.0          0.0       0.0                                                 11.6          2.8          14.4
Outside Plant Ducting                   0.0             3.2       3.2                                                                                   3.0          0.8           3.8
Building & Sites                                                                                                                                        8.6          2.0          10.6
3. Consultancies                           0.0             2.8       2.8       0.0          0.0       0.0                                                 0.3           0.0           0.3
Management                                                                                                                                              0.3          0.0           0.3
Project Support                         0.0             2.8       2.8                                                                                   0.0          0.0           0.0
Total Base Cost                           14.5           88.0    102.5
Physical Contingency                    1.5             4.5       6.0
Price Contingency                       3.0             5.0       8.0
Total Project Cost                         0.0            18.0      18.0       0.0         11.0       11.0         0.0            8.5          8.5        19.0          5.0          24.0
|Int. During Construction                                                                                                                               6.5          1.0           7.5
TOTAL COST                                                                                                                                              25.5          6.0          31.5



-22-
Table 8.A.2: Procurement Arrangements
(values include contingencies)
(SAR Annex 3.4)
1.1   Maint. Telephone ExcCanges         19.1         19.1
1.2   Main Telephone Exchange            2.7           2.7
(Propetary)
2.    Small Rural Exchanges               1.2          1.2
3.    MDF                                 3.4          3.4
4.   Outside Plant Equipment             10.2                                1002
5.   Ontside Plant Civil Works -          2.9                               2.9
Ducts
6.   Microwave                            2.0          2.0
7.   Earth Station                        1.0          1.3
8.    MART                                1.2          1.2
9.    VHF HF                              0.4          0.4
10.   Miscellaneous                      0.3           0.3
11.  Expansion existing transnmission     1.5          I .5
12.   Telephones                         2.4                                                  2.4
13.  OtheT termiinal equipment           0.2           0.2
14.   Digital data                       0.9           0.9
15.   Power                               1.4                                                                   1.4
16.   A/C                                 1.4                                                                   1.4
17.  Office and training                 0.                                                        0.8
18.  Vehicles                             1.2                                                                   1.2
19. 1Consultancy                         0.5                                                                                        0.5
Total                                    55.0         27.5             6.7       13.1         2.4         0.8        4.0             0.5
From Table 3.3 (incl. contingncies)     51.0          27.5             6.5       13.0         2.5         1.0                        0.5
Difference                                4.0 |        0.0             0.2        0.1       (0.1)        (0.2)                       0.0
Note: Table 3.3 is used as reference for Project Costs
Table 8B. Project Financing
(US$ millions)
IDA                                  0.0            55.0         55.0                      0.0              50.0               50.0
DANIDA (Denmark)                     0.0            18.0         18.0                      0.0              25.0               25.0
(DKK 176 million)
FINNIDA (Finland)                    0.0            11.0         11.0                      0.0 |             3.0                3.0
(FIM 17.0 million)
NDF (Nordic Dev. Fund)                                                                     0.0 |              7.3               7.3
JICA (Japan)                         0.0             8.5           8.5                     0.0              15.0               15.0
(JYen 1.826 million)
NTC Direct                          19.0             5.0         24.0
NTC Indirect                         6.5             1.0           7.5
Total NTC                           25.5             6.0         31.5                     38.7                3.3             42.0
(NTC in NRs million)                                                                    2,162                184             2,346
Total                               25.5            98.5        124.0                     38.7              03.6              142.3
Note: The values for IDA - DANIDA - FINNIDA - NDF - JICA - NTC include contingencies.
FINNIDA arranged with the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) to take 50 percent of its original Grant amount.
IDC - Interest During Construction.



- 23 -
Table 9: Economic and Financial Rate of Return (ERR and FRR)
Re-estimates Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
The re-estimate calculation was based upon the original assumptions used in the SAR, and it was
made using the following steps:
(a)    project investment was calculated from page 6 of 11 of the Financial Projections taking
the Addition to " Plant under Construction" less the amounts for 1993 - 1996 which
were included as investment for the 40 Project. Year 1999 was taken as the final
investment year for the 5t Project, for which the investment associated with the 5t
Project was taken as 50 percent of total investment in the year;
(b)   revenue and Cost with Project, were taken directly from NTC's Financial Statements;
(c)   revenue and Cost without the Project, were taken from the SAR estimates; and
(d)   inflation and Deflactor were calculated using the actual annual inflation in the period
1993 - 1998.
Economic rate of Return (ERR)
The following assumptions were used:
(a)   the Investment amounts were decreased by subtracting Custom Duties and using a
Conversion Factor for Civil Works. In both cases, the amounts used were the same used
in the SAR;
(b)   the Incremental Revenue for the ERR calculation (Revenue with the project minus
Revenue without the project) was calculated by adding to the Financial Incremental
Revenue the Sales Tax of 20 percent;
(c)   the Incremental Cost for ERR calculation was estimated by adding to the financial
incremental cost the same correction used in the SAR (applying a conversion factor of 10
percent to 1/3 of the salaries to reflect for the part of the salaries which does not reflect
true economic cost due to mobility restrictions; and
(d)    both for financial and economic calculations, a useful project life of 15 years after
project completion has been assumed. Calculations were made using the current local
currency (NRs of each year) and converting the Net Benefit Stream into NRs of 31
December 1992 by use of a deflactor calculated from the inflationary index.



- 24-
Based on the above assumptions, the following cost and benei--lt streams (in constant 1993 NRs)
were constructed:
1993      324     332        619          516    i290            290          4         (97)
1994     564      590        724          603         304        304        (122)      (245)
1995    2,149    2,187       1,019        849         459        459        (1,239)    (1,402)
1996    1,412    1,442       1,660        1,383       6,78       678        (311)      (532)
1997     989      1,008      2,434        2,028       998        998         296         15
1998     717      723        3,618        3,015       1,027     l,C127        1,173     792
1999    1,138    1,138       3,726        3,105       1,642     1,642        553         190
2000                         6,329        5,274       2,091     2,091       2,316       1,740
2001-15                                                                      2,316       1,740
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ __  47.2%  29.3%



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
To employ Consultants to carry out Part E of the   DETECON was contracted as the sector reform
DCA         3.04(i)      1 2         C          12/15/92                       Project: telecommunications sector review,  consultant in early 1993.
including, overall sector structure, ownership of
NTC, and private sector participation in the
provision of services.
DCA         3.04(ii)     12          C          03/31/1994                     To formulate, in consultation with IDA, and  Complied with through Workshops held in
thereafter implement, a time-bound sector reform   November 1993 and February-March 1994,
program.                                   which resulted in sector reform proposal
accepted and implemented by IIMG.
The New Telecom Act was enacted on I
January 1997, the Regulatory entity (NTA) was
established in March 1998.
DCA         4.01(b)(i)    1          CD         Annually by                    1.  The Borrower to have the records and   NTC has provided IDA with unaudited
July 15                        accounts for all expenditures with respect to which reports within six months of the end of the
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made   FY.
on the basis of SOEs and those for the Special
Account, and maintain them for at least a year after                                   1n
IDA has received the respective Audit report, as
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA.
2.  The Borrower to furnish to IDA within twelve Some years NTC was able to submit Audit
months after the end of FY the audit report,  reports within twelve months from the end of
including a separate opinion of the auditors about  the Fiscal Year. Other years, NTC was delayed
the reliability of the financial statements,  in submission of the Audit report.
procedures, and internal controls.
DCA         5.01(e)      3           C          06/30/1993                     To have secured funds from DANIDA          In July 1994, HMG/NTC completed process to
secure Grant from Denmark (DANIDA).
DCA         5.01(f)      3           C          06/30/1993                     To have secured funds from FINNIDA         In July 1994 HMG/NTC completed process to
secure Grant from the Government of Finland
(ex-FINNIDA) for 50 percent of the original
amount. The other 50 percent was provided by
the Nordic Development Fund (NDF).



PA            4.01(b)(i)    I             C                                             Identical to DCA 4.01 (b) (i)                   NTC engaged exteynal Auditors as appointed
NTC to have its records, accounts, and financial    by the OAG.
statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA
PA            4.01(b)(ii)    I            CD         Annually by 15                     NTC to furnish to IDA, not later than twelve    Several years NTC submission of Audited
July                              months after the end of the year: (a) certified  Financial Statements was delayed.
copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (b) the report of such audit.
PA            4.01(b)(iii)   I            CD         AnDually by                        NTTC to furnish to IjDA, not later than nine months  NTC submnitted to IDA un-Audited Financial
April 15                          after the end of the year: (a) certified copies of its   Statements by April 15 each year.
un-Audited financial statcments for such year; and
(b) the report of such audit.
PA            4.02(a)       1             C          Annually                           NTC shall produce an annual return of not less  NTC always complied with this covenant.
than 12 percent of the average current net value of
NTC's net fixed assets in operation.
Covenant types:                                                                                                                         Present Status:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                   8. = Indigenous people                                                         C     = covenant complied with
2. =  Financial performance/revenue  generation  from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting                                       CD      = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9                     CP    = complied with partially
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource                   NC     = not complied with
4. =  Counterpart funding                                     allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                 action
6. =  Environmental covenants                          13. = Other
j 7. =  Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
[Bank Operational Manual statements (OD and OP/BP) have been complied with]
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Preparation  to                                         _46.6                          133.9
appraisal
Appraisal                                                                  19.4         59.9
Negotiations                                                               11.1         34.0
through Board
approval
Supervision                                                               149.9        439.3
Completion                                                                 10.0         30.0
TOTAL               n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         237.0         697.1



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Exploratory       April 1989        2          8      FA, TE, FMS                                        Combined with Supervision of 4"t Project
Preparation       Nov. 1989         2          2      FA, TE, FMS                                        Combined with Supervision Of 4th Project
Included FINNIDA and DANIDA staff
Preparation       June 1990         1          3      FA, FMS                                            Stop-over mission due to political changes and combined
with Supervision of 4th Project.
Pre-Appraisal     Aug. 1990         2         23      FA, TE, FMS                                        Combined with Supervision of 4t' Project
Pre-Appraisal     December          2         14      FA, TP, FMS                                        Combined with Supervision of 4"h Project
1990
.___________ _  .Tariffs  Study
Sector Workshop    June 1991        3          3      FA, TP. TP, FMS                                    First Sector Workshop
OD
Appraisal         July 1991         2         16      FA, TE, FMS                                        Combined with Supervision of 4th Project
Negotiations      March 1992                                                                             Negotiations took place in Washington
Supervision I     May/June          2         12      FA, TE, FMS             1                I         Combined with Supervision of 4th Project
1992                                                                                  5th Project Launching mission was combined with
DANIDA and FINNIDA
Supervision 2     November/         3          6      FA, TE, TP, FMS         I                I         Combined Supervision of 4th and 5th Projects
December                                                                              Arrival for in-field presence of 2-years of DANIDA
1992                                                                                  funded Supervision Consultant.
Supervision 3     April 1993        2          4      FA, TE, FMS             I                          Combined Supervision of 4th and 51h Projects
IDA provided Extension to NTC to finalize DANIDA,
FINNIDA Grants. New NDF Grant approved to replace
50 percent of FINNIDA.
Supervision 4     July 1993         1          3      FA, FMS                 1                1         Combined Supervision of 4th and 5"' Projects
Contract with DETECON signed on 9 July 93



Supervision 5    November 1993     3           5       FA, IE  P                                         Combined Supervision of 4h and 5' Projects
FMS                                               First Telecom Sector Reform Workshop
Supervision 6    February/March    2           15      FA, TE, FMS                             I 1       Combined Supervision of 4th and 5h Projects
1994                                                                                     Second Telecom Sector Reform Workshop
Supervision 7    July 1994         2          10       FA, TP, FMS           HS               HS         Combined Supervision of 4 and 5th Projects
ICR mission for the 4th Project (1588-NEP)
Supervision 8    October/          2          10       FA, TE, FMS           HS               HS         Borrower review ICR for 4th Project
November 1994
Supervision 9    May 1995          1          14       FA, FMS               HS               HS         AMI (from Denmark) prepares Tender to issue licenses to
new service providers
IDA PHRD Grant TF029212 signed on July 10, 1995
Cable TV and INTERNET providers licenses issued.
Supervision 10  November!          2           17      FA, TE, FMS            HS              HS         Mid-Term Review, together with DANIDA and Finland
December 1995
Drafted new Telecom Act, draft outline organization for new
Regulator, and organized training of staff.
In September 1995 IDA Board approved Use of Project Cost
Savings, authorizing to fund more switching lines.
Supervision I I  January 1997      2           14      FA, PS, FMS           HS               HS         New Telecom Act 2053, gazetted on I January 97. Rules and
Regulations for the Regulator (NTA) being drafted. "Public
Interest Litigation" delays Danish funded issuance of cellular
& WLL licenses. DANIDA organizing funding for
privatization consultancy. Identification of Telecom Scctor
Reform Project.
Supervision 12   August/           2           14      FA, TP, FMS           iHS              HS         Combined mission with Identification of Telecom Sector
Identification    September 1997                                                                         Reform Project. Public Interest Litigations filed in May/July
96 continue delaying issuance of new licenses.



Super-vision 13   April 1998         2           14      FA.TE, FMS              HS               HS          Combined mission with First Pre-Apprai sal of Telecom Sector
Pre-Appraisal                                                                                                 Reform Project. The Regulator (NTA) was established in
March 1998.
Supervision 14   September 1998      3           15      FA, TE, PS,             HS               HS          Combined mission with Second Pre-Appraisal of Telecom
Second                                                   FMS                                                  Sector Reform Project.
Pre-Appraisal                                                                                                 Review new Draft Tender for selecting Cellular & WLL
service providers.
AMI/BMP prepared draft licenses for NTC.
Consultants working in: Rural Telecom Development, Policy
papers, Frequency Management, Interconnection, Tariffs
Study updating, and NTC's Improvement Plan.
DANIDA funded privatization consultants (AMI/BMP)
working in Nepal since April 1998.
CD
Supervision 15   March 1999          1           8       FA. FMS                 HS               HS          Combined mission with preparation of Telecom Sector Reform
ICR Mission                                                                                                   Project.
NTC transferred into the Company Act; NTA issued licenses
to NTC.
(*) FA: Financial Analyst - TE: Telecommunications Engineer - TP: Telecomnmunications Policy Specialist - PE: Procurement Specialist
Average days in field per person
Note: the position of FMS was created only toward the end of Project implementation, however, the local staff who became FMS participated in all missions. However, this is not well reflected in the
cost Table because the local FMS, and during the last mission the Headquarters FMS, were not charged to the Project budget.



- 31 -
Appendix A
Nepal Fifth Telecommunications Project (Credit 2364-NP)
ICR Mission
March 28, 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.     A World Bank (IDA) mnission consisting of Mr. Alberto Cruzat (EMTTI) visited Nepal between
March  14 -  30, 1999  to  supervise and conduct the ICR  Mission  for the ongoing Fifth
Teleconmnunications Project (Credit 2364-NP).
A. Project Implementation and Operation
2.     The Mission reviewed with NTC the status of Procurement and Disbursement, finding that
Disbursements as of February 24, 1999 amount to US$ 43.6 million, out of a total of US$ 55 million Credit.
Around 52 Tenders were prepared by NTC under the Fifth Project, out of which seven were cancelled at
various stages of processing (tender never floated, or canceled at a later processing stage).  The
Procurement/Disbursement status for the Fifth Project is presented in Attachment 1.1 The rnission
completed initial review of four Evaluation reports while in the field and recornmended to IDA
headquarters to revise and issue the respective no-objections.
3.     Attachment 22 presents the situation of those Tenders/Contracts with payments yet to be
completed. NTC's Material Management staff confirmed to the Mission that they will take all necessary
actions to have all Goods and Services received by June 30, 1999 (Closing Date), and that these
payments plus the retention payments will all be done before the end of the grace period, October 31,
1999.
4.     One major component in the Fifth Project was the procurement of switching equipment, the
following Table summarizes the Lines Procured under the fifth Project
Type of Switch                            Model                      Number of Lines
Alcatel CIT, France                        E-IOB                           4,500
DTI, Denmark                            S-12 ALIC                         11,400
Alcatel Bell, Belgium                   S-12 J-Rack                       49,000
Siemens, Germany                          EWSD                            105,000
C-DOT , India                              RAX                             4,600
TOTAL                                                                    174,500
Note 1: NTC procured a total of 16,400 of used DTI equipment, out of which some 5,000 lines were used as repair parts for
existing S-12 switches.
Note 2: Additionally, some 32,000 switching lines of recovered equipment are being re-installed, bringing the total of
switching lines to be installed in the Fifth Project to 206,500 lines.
Attachment 1 is available in the Project Files.
2      Attachment 2 is available in the Project Files.



- 32 -
Marts Implementation
5.   The second major component in the Fifth Project was the procurement and installation of Rural
Extensions using Multiple Access Radio Systems (MARTS). NTC procured four large MARTS systems
and 15+1 (test bench) small MARTS systems under the Fourth Project and four additional small MARTS
systems under the Fifth Project. The following Table summarizes the status, capacity and geographical
coverage of the procured MARTS systems:
For the 19 + 1 systems under Fourth Project
Item                   Total            Already Installed         Operating
Base Stations                        19+1                _9+1                     19+1
Repeaters                              79                     79                    79
Terminals                             394                   394                    394
Subscriber Lines                    3,860                  3,736                 2,690
For the Total of 23 + 1 systems
Item                        Total            Already Installed,        Operating
Base Stations                       23+1                  23+1                   22+1
Repeaters                             99                     99                    99
Terminals                            607                    550                   500
Subscriber Lines                    4,500                 4,292                 2,908
6.    The 4 systems procured under the Fifth Project are being installed. Subscriber lines are being
distributed in all 75 Districts in Nepal. Although the final location of all subscribers is yet to be
determined, it is expected that the 607 Terminals will provide service to some 700 of the 4,000 VDCs
(Village Development Committees) in the country.
7.    Each small MART provides 4 - 12 subscriber lines and each large MART provides 8 - 40 subscriber
lines. However, small MARTS have a limit of 160 lines per system, and large MARTS have a limit of 512
lines per system.
Project Implementation
8.    The Mission discussed with MoF, MoIC and NTC about Fifth Project implementation and
operation issues, and about the Operational Plan to be followed by NTC after Closing date. The mission
wishes to state its recognition to NTC for the outstanding results reached under the Fifth Project, where the
company expanded its network from around 67,100 digital lines as of the end of the Fourth Project, to more
than 240,000 digital lines, compared with a total of 128,550 envisioned at appraisal.
9.    The Borrower (NTC), expressed its satisfaction with the execution of the Fifth Project, in
particular, the increased installed capacity. Through Fifth Project implementation, NTC developed its own
procurement procedures, following to a certain extent guidelines similar to World Bank's. One typical case
of extended negotiations among NTC, the Bank and other donors, was the computerization strategy to be



-33 -
followed. A final agreement was reached by which NTC now accepts to outsource software development,
instead of following the path of fully in-house software system development.
Operational Plan
10.   Annex 2.4 of the SAR dated April 8, 1992, states the "Construction and Operational Performance
Targets". In addition, NTC has developed a monthly MIS report which provides extensive coverage of
many other aspects of NTC development. NTC has proposed to the Mission to use its monthly MIS report
as the future Operational Plan, and the Mission as agreed to do so, subject to Bank's management
confirmation. Attachment 3 includes the latest version of NTC' s MIS report.
B. Tariffs Re-Balancing
11.   The Mission met with NTC representatives and Mr. Henning Axelsen, Manager of TeleDanmark
Consult, to discuss about the most useful way for NTC to finalize their proposal for tariffs re-balancing to
be submitted to NTA. It was agreed that TeleDanmark Consult will separate the report into two parts, one
containing the specific recommendations for tariffs increase, including as an Annex the respective Tables
with supporting calculations, and a second part containing the aspects related to tariffs principles. The final
report will be delivered to NTC in about 3 weeks (around April 15, 1999).
C. Financial Statements
12.   The Mission and Robert Saum (LOAAS) met with Mr. Basudev D. Lamichhane, Deputy Auditor
General and his staff, to discuss about submission of Audited Financial Statements and appointment of
External Auditors for 2055/56 (1998/99). The Deputy Auditor General informed that the Auditor General
included the Audit findings on NTC in the Auditor General's Annual Report and that the Public Accounts
Committee passed a resolution requesting NTC to resolve its accounting and auditing issues. He also
confirmed his agreement that NTC accounts should be prepared and audited in accordance with
intemational standards.
13.   NTC submitted to the Mission the unaudited Financial Statements for year 2054/55 (1997/98). The
External Audit is in progress and it is expected to be completed by the deadline of July 15, 1999. However,
this Financial Statements will have some of the same accounting and auditing issues raised by the Auditors
last year. NTC has hired two Chartered Accountants (CA), and has made improvements in recording of
fixed assets and in the treatment of the Intelsat investment. After submission by the Auditor of the
Preliminary Report, NTC will prepare an Action Plan for improvement in the Financial Management
system. This Action Plan will begin with the engagement of the CAs in reviewing the Internal Audit
Manual, the Accounting Manual (originally prepared by PW in 1992), and reviewing the Accounting Policy
to bring them in line with IAS. Implementation of these new Manuals, Policy will start with the financial
year 2056/57. In parallel with these developments, NTC will assess the implications of the comments to be
received from Auditors for the year under review (2054/55), and will prepare a detailed proposal for
clearing Audit objections. If NTC requires, to engage some consultants to assist in cleaning the Financial
Statements, a TOR will be prepared in close consultation with the Bank.
D. Y2K
14.  The Mission discussed with representatives of NTC's Y2K Committee about progress in preparing
NTC's software to be Y2K compliant. Attachment 4 presents a summary of the situation.



- 34 -
15.  The Mission also met Dr. Shanker Sharma, Member National Planning Commnission (NPC), who is
the country-wide coordinator for Y2K problem. Mr. Sharma explained that NPC has created a Committee
to coordinate efforts to solve the Y2K problem at the country level. Since last December, four main
Seminars have taken place in Nepal about the Y2K problem. First a NPC Committee sponsored Seminar;
second a Seminar organized by DFID, from UK, third a NTC sponsored Seminar; and fourth a Computer
Association of Nepal (CAN) sponsored Seminar. The NPC Comrnittee had arranged for a UNDP (DESA)
grant for US$ 100,000 which is already under utilization. With this Grant NPC Commnittee has hired a local
Y2K Consultant who is going to work with three foreign consultants, whose arrival is expected soon, to
produce a first assessment report. The group is going to work in the Ministry of Science and Industry. Due
to the availability of this UNDP Grant, NPC did not apply for the World Bank - InfoDev Grant of similar
purpose. However, NPC Committee expects to apply for the US$ 500,000 Grant for implementation of the
proposed solutions, after completion of the initial survey. The main utilities: NTC - NEA - Water Supply
have their own Y2K groups working; also the commercial banks are well advanced in solving the Y2K
problerm A first assessment of NPC is that in the Central Government the problem may not be of large
magnitude due to the limnited use of computers as of present.



- 35 -
Appendix B
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (Credit 2364-NP)
BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
1.   Project Objectives
The project had been prepared as a time slice of NTC's development program (1993-1998)
primarily to support implementation of the telecommunication component of the Government's Eight
Development Plan 1991-1995. The project had plans to double exchange capacity from about 78000
lines to 138000 lines and provide complementary transmission, telephone instrument, and outside plant
equipment.
The Fifth telecom. project had aimed to:
(a)   Address network shortages and improve network quality by:
e  increasing telephone penetration in a balanced manner in urban areas;
v  completing the provision of automatic, long distance, telephone service in all 75
districts of Nepal;
* expanding the national and international telecommunications infrastructure to cope with
increased traffic from the enlarged network; and
*  replacing and upgrading obsolete equipment.
(b)  Improve NTC's performance, especially related to planning, administration  and
management, project management, quality of service and efficiency through a balanced
institutional development program; and
(c)   Address the major sector issues ( like policy mechanism, sector structure and options for
privation, regulation , etc) by establishing an agenda for review and reform of the sector.
2.   Design
The project was designed with main components being:
*    expansion of telephone services in Kathmandu valley and associated transmission, outside
plant and subscriber terminal equipment;
*    expansion of telephone services outside of Kathmandu Valley in both provincial and rural
areas and associated transmission, outside plant and subscriber terminal equipment and
special satellite facilities for some extremely remote locations;



-36 -
*    expansion of the interconnecting national and international networks through expansion of
new toll/gateway exchange, exchange of national and international transmission systems
and international satellite facilities, provision of data network;
*    an institutional development program which includes consultant services for improving
NTC's management, planning and corporate computer facilities; and
*    consultant services to review and make recommnendation concerning sector reform issues.
The estimated cost for the project was as follows:
Sn   Investment Costs                              Totals including     Total
US$(miflion)
2.A   Equipment                                              _      Subtotal 85.5
3. Telephone Exchanges                                  27.5
Transmission Equipment                                  25.0
Outside Plant                                           26.0
____  Customer Premises Equip                                   2.5
Operations and Training                                  1.0
Power, Vehicles and Miscellaneous                        3.5
B     Civil Works                                                   Subtotal 14.0
Outside Plant                                            6.0
Buildings and sites                                      8.0
C     Consultancy                                                   Subtotal 3.0
Management                                               0.0
Project support                                          3.0
D     Physical Contingency                                     6.0
Price contingency                                        8.0
_____ (i)Total Project Costs                                 116.5
Int. During Construction (IDC)                           7.5
Total financing required                               124.0
3. Implementation and Operation Experience
The various components of the Fifth Telecom Project were financed as follows:
*   Cable network Materials              Danida
*    Microwave and optical fibre systems  Finida and Nordic fund
*   Rural transmission links             JICA
*   Switching, power, air-conditioning and
various other equipment             World Bank



- 37 -
Except for JICA funded Rural Transmission Links, the implementation of other equipment was
carried out by NTC under the supervision of suppliers' expert. The DGM Projects (Chief Project
Manager) was assisted by the World Bank supervision consultant for co-ordination among the NTC
project teams.
As a result of the reduced market price of Switching Equipment the project was increased to add
from 60,000 to approximately 200,000 telephone lines. The increase in project size has resulted in
meeting the increasing demand of telephone lines in the country.
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performances
In terms of number of telephone lines added, the project volume of Fifth Telecom Project (200,000
lines) is nearly five times the size of Fourth Telecom Project (41,000 lines). With marginal increase in
the manpower and logistic support, NTC successfully completed the Fifth Telecom Project. Completion
of Fifth Telecom Project has proved that, given the opportunity, NTC has the capability to take up bigger
projects.
Evaluation of Bank Performance and Co-flnanciers
Regular supervision and review of the progress made in the Project by the World Bank Mission
had helped immensely in timely implementation of the project works. The members of the World Bank
Mission were always very much co-operative and NTC will always remain grateful to the World Bank.
The Donor countries have also extended full co-operation throughout the project period. It was with the
co-operation the World Bank and the Donor Countries; the Fifth Telecommunication Project was
successfully completed in time.
Lessons Learned
A number of problems were faced during the Fifth Telecommunication Project period. Land
Acquisition and Building Construction posed one of the major problems during project implementation.
The initial project implementation schedule was changed to take up the installation in the project sites
where building construction was completed in time. Another problem was untimely delivery of different
equipment required for completion the project in one site. Late delivery of air-conditioning equipment,
Battery and MDF delayed the project to a certain extent.
During the course of evaluation of tenders NTC tried its best to formulate a committee consisting
of specialized staff as far as possible subject to the availability of such staff and briefed the committee
about the evaluation criteria specified by the World Bank. NTC followed the specific evaluation criteria
for the evaluation of tenders for procurement of equipment financed by sources other than the World
Bank.
The lessons learned during this project is:
*   land acquisition should be started well in advance;
*   building construction should be started such that the building is ready well before the
procurement process for equipment is started; and



- 38 -
procurement of equipment should not be divided into too many small packages. The saving
made in purchase prices may not worth anything compared to considerable delay encountered
in the project implementation.
Plan for Operation Phase of the Project
In line with the increased size of the project, NTC also accelerated the connection of new
subscribers thus leading to efficient use of the installed equipment and reducing the waiting time for new
connection. To fulfill the motto of "Customer's Satisfaction" NTC shall implement one-window
customer services for quick delivery of the telecommunication service.



IBRD 23473
>   31-    '                                                       3~            ~              ~             ~~~~~~~4'  NEPAL                -a-
(EXTENSION)          (NEW)
>  v                                                         ~~~~~FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT-
Darchula  4                                                                                            0                                      U          EXCHANGES
>    -n   .                 4                      >           R                                                                                        MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES:
Jl  ^sJ  w-*   .              \               n                                                   -                                DIGITAL
Bait                                             Mugu 0                                                                                                                ANALOG
e   i0 dh  eK                               i:j                                                                      --JICA LINES
(  M C   Silgadhi  ;        K   i R                                                                                                             A  SATELLITE TRMINA SMALL SATELLITE TERMINALS (VISA SERVICE)
47  Dipayci                          k~                                           X                                                              ; TERMINALS WITH UP TO 30 REMOTE LINES
Mohd r    ar                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
-Mqh27g-r - '6a   '           >4w-z' G. w7.s   .        Dolpa  *   .r\0  sg                                             ZONE BOUNDARIES
0\/  2 *--  i  /   ';   '  . EWJ    7 '*    9''%                                 .'2.%-      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Dhangorhi                A HE2-i          7                                                     qL O   .     g_*
s7           Manang                            4~              U-  Balambu, Thimi, Bhadrakali, Central Ill, Gongabu,
Surkhet                                                                 ad                                   Indrayeni ,Kipipur Thaiba and Thecha
Surkhe                                                       /                                                              3 Bhaktapur Chabahl,i)  Chhauni, Naxal and Patani
PAPT                                                        N L   A i .  .                                    Central.; and Central 11
Gulaxet    /              .   Tulsipur
/                      >.\Ghorai                          Tamg ,
,/';S P D<la>i / ,'  ,,  '  Sc,Iukhulnbu  a
;>S3an~~~~~~~~e'paud i                                                                                          " .Tapleiung
50rsj        7                                                                                             \s     imara    \         s                   ov       '      4/ <        i
27                  KILOMETERS
This -ap has been prepared by The. Word Bn-k's st.ff  -Thrly f.ord                                                             t au                                        Dha                   Dmn
the  -o-eiene of- reer  -nd is for the in,ternal use  f The World                                                  damak
Bank Group. The deno-nantions used and the boundaries shown on this                                            TO
map do not imply, on the part of The. Word Bank Gop, any  u.dg nf                                                                                             han
onthe legal status of any territoy -r any endors-et or accptanc  ofdpr
such boundaies.5
ItAPRIL 1992
APRIL 1992



