Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICEjE COPY
Report No. 10062-NEP Type: (SAR)                               Report No. 10062-NEP
CRUZAT, A./ X82675 / F9 041/ ASTI'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
APRIL 8, 1992
South Asia Country Department I
Asia Technical Department
This documeut has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banik authoiizatlon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENS
(As of September 1991)
Currency Unit      -     Nepalese Rupee (Nrs)
US$1.00            -      Nrs 42.3
Nrs 1,000          -      US$ 23.6
Nrs 1              -      100 paisa
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANIDA             -      Danish International Development Agency
EIRR               -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
FINNIDA            -      Finnish International Development Agency
FIRR               -      Financial Internal Rate of Return
IBRD               -      International Bank for Reconstruction and DeNelopment
ICB                -      International Competitive Bidding
ITU                -      International Telecommunications Union
ISD                -      International Subscriber Dialing
HF                 -      High Frequency (3 - 30 Mhz)
JICA               G      Japan International Cooperation Agency
LCB                -      Local Competitive Bidding
MARTS                     Multiple Access Radio Transmission Systems
MOC                       Ministry of Communications
NTC                       Nepal Telecommunications Corporation
O&M                -      Operations and Maintenance
PABX                      Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCO                -      Public Call Office
STD                -      Subscriber Trunk Dialing
UNDP               -      United Nations Development Program
VHF                -      Very High Frequency (30 -300 Mhz)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEP
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Rr2iegt-Summary
His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG)
Beneiieaay    Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC)
Amunt:          SDR40.1 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
Lendine Terms: Repayable over 40 years, including 10 years of grace on
repayment of principal.
Relending       HMG would onlend the funds to NTC in US$ at a variable
Terms:          interest rate based upon the six month LIBOR plus a spread of
3.5X for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace in
repayment of principal.
Proiect         The  proposed  project  aims  to  expand  telecommunications
,blectivesa     facilities ane provide new services, improve the quality of
existing services, strenghten NTC and address major sector
organization issues.   It would provide about 60,850 net
additional telephone lines, expand national and international
long  distance  facilities,  and  engage  consultants  to
strehgnthen NTC and address sector organization issues. It
would benefit all sectors of the economy through improved
access to telecommunications facilities and improved service
quality. About 50,000 new subscribers would gain access to
the network, which would provide a partial substitute for, and
contribute   to   the   overall   efficiency   of  physical
transportation. The project faces no special risks.
EstiMated Costs:
US$ Million   --
Local      Foreign      Total
Equipment & Services         5.6        80.0         85.5
Civil Works                  9.0         6.0         14.0
Consultanoy                  0.0         3.0          3.0
Total page Coat             14.5        89.0        102.5
Physical Contingenoy       1.6          4.6         6.0
Price Contingency          3.0         5.0          8.0
Total Prolect Cost La       19.0        97.6        116.5
Int. During Construction   6.5          1.0         7.5
(lD%Z')
total Flnanolnu Required    25.6        98.5        124.0
La the prolect cost Inoludes an estimated IJ9t.3 mililon equivalent In duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



it
Fiancming Plan:
US$ million
Source of Financing             Local         Foreign       Total
DANIDA, Denmark                  0.0           18.0         18.0
FINNIDA, Finland                 0.0           11.0         11.0
Japan                            0.0            8.6          8.6
Nepal (NTC)                     25.5            6.0         31.5
IDA                              0.0          55.0          55.0
Total Financing                 25.5           98.5        124.0
Eatimated IDPA DisburseMent:t
MIA I7isca yen£
93   1.24   1995   196   1299 ?
-------- (US$ million)
Annual              5.5   11.0  13.5   11.0   6.0   8.0
Cummulativo         5.5   16.4  30.0  41.0  47.0  55.0
Rate of retun:             22X



NEPAL
FIFIH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
Staff Appraisal Report
Male of Conat
CREDrr AM1  PROJECr SU1SN ARY .             ........       ..........  .. . . . .. . i
1. THE TELECO MUDM      NIC.ATIONS SECTOR  . ........................  1
A. Background                       ............... .                            1
B. SectorStructure ................ .                                            2
C. Service .......................................                               2
D. SectorGoals andStrategy .................                                     6
E. Sectorallssues. ...................... 7
F.  IDA's Role ....................         . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
2 THIE TB[LECOA84IUNICATIONS ENTTY    ..................  . ....   11
A. Organization                   ................................              11
B. Management ssues .       . .............................. 12
C.  Staffng  ............................ 6. . . . . . . .....                  13
D. Training ..... ...................................    13
E. Accounting System and Financial Management ...... 6   ...............   14
F. Bfllingand Colleaion ....................................    14
G. Audit .........................................    15
H. Operations and Mainteanc  .................................   16
This report is based on the findings of: (1) preappraisal and appri misions to Nepal in August 1990
and July 1991 which included Messrs. H Lantzke and A. Cruzat (ASTIF), (2) a Tariff Study mission in
December 1990, which included Messrs. P Smith, A. Cruzat (ASTIF) and consultant from Analysys
(UK), and (3) a Sector Reform Seminar misskm.n in June 1991, which included Messrs. B. Wellenius, P
Smith, A. Cruzat (ASTIF) and consultant from Debevoise & Plimpton (USA). The peers reviewers for
this project were Messrs. B. Wellenius, D. Joshi and N. Hughes (ASIE). The Division Chief is Mr.
Frederick T. Temple, and the Country Director Is Mr. Jochen Kraske.



lv
3 TIiEPROJECT ............                                      ....    .......... 17
A. NTC's Investnent Progran   .. . . .          . .  . . . . . .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
B. Project Objectives  ............ ........................ .    17
C. Project Description ............. ......... ......... I ... ..... ... .    17
D. Project Cost                     .............................................    19
E. Project Financing . ......  .....  .*.... .. .. .. ... ..................    20
F. Procurement .............................................    21
G. Disbursement .................................. o. o............... 23
H. Progress with Project lnplementation  ..............................  24
1. Project Implementation   ...              ...................................                    24
J. Monitoring and Reporting .......... .... .                   ...................    25
K. Supervision Plan  ..........................................    25
L. Environmental and Health Aspects .... .. .....   ...... ..           .......    ....... .    26
4  FINARNCILLARNALYSIS   ................................                                             @      27
A. Past and Present Financial Performance  . ...........................    27
B. Projected Financial Perbrmance               ......................                  ...         29
5 ERCONOMIC ANALYSIS ............. ........ ....... 4..  31
A. Benefits ................................   31
B. Tariffs  ......................................o. .                                              32
C. Retum on nvestment    .............                               ............   33
D. Least Cost Solution  ...... ................ . ..... .33
E. 1tojectRisks  ..... ..         ....................................    34
6 AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ... ........  35
A. Agreements  .............................................                                        35
B. Recommendation  .............  .............................                                     37



V
AM=
1.1 Access to Telephone Service . ............................ . 39
1.2 Coverage of Service by Region, Zone, District and Urban Center ....... 41
1.3 Telephone Demand and Supply  ............................ 47
1.4 Telecommunications Sector Organization Seminar      .................  49
1.5 Telecommunications Sector Structure Consultancy - TOR  ............ 55
2.1 NTC Organizadon Chart .       . .......         ...... ..4.4a.4444..4. . 59
2.2 ManagementConsultant -TOR  . . ............ 4444.44.   4a...... 61
2.3 NTC's Employees by Category and by Region .......  . ........ o ..   63
2.4 Performance Indicators ............4..........4......44 . 65
3.1 Telephone Expansion Progranm ............ . . . .   .... .......... 67
3.2 NTC's Institutional Development Program  ........... o . 73
3.3 Project Cost by Year .. .......................... *      77
3.4 Proposed Procurement Arrangements ........................ 79
3.5 Disbursement Schedule ..4*................................              81
3.6 Construction Schedule .......... ....... . ...  . .. .... . .... 83
3.7 Supervision Consultant -Tems of Reference  .... o ........ ... 85
4.1 Historical Financa Statements ........................... .. 89
4.2 Breakdown of Revenues .............. ............. o .... 93
4.3 Assumptions for Financial Statements Projections         .      .        95
4.4 ProjectedFinancialStatements .    .       ................... . 99
5.1 Transfers to/from EOG - NTC     .o  ... .. . . ..  . ... . ......  .. 103
5.2 Evolutionof0NTC5sTaffs ...          ..                  ........ . lOS
5.3 ComparisonbetweenExisting andProposedTariffs ...... .  ......  109
5.4 Returnon Investnent  ........................ * ......... 113
6.1 ListofDocuments i ProjectFile .  . . ....... .. ......  .... .. . . 117
MAP IBRD map No. 23473



1. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A. Background
1.1       Over the past decade Nepal's governments have increasingly recognized
the important role which effective telecommunications play in political, social
and economic development. Given Nepal's mountainous terrain and the Kathmandu
Valley's separation from the densely populated areas of the Terai near the border
with India, telecommunications has become a vital element in government
administration and commercial operations. Furthermore, duting the late 1980's,
an estimated 9% to 10% p.a. of Nepal's foreign exchange earnings (excluding
foreign aid) was derived from tourism for which telecommunications is of primary
importance.  Currently Nepal has one of the lowest densities of telecommun-
ications service in Asia (para. 1.6); although from 1985 to 1990 services grew
at a very good rate of 22% p.a. this relatively high growth is mainly the result
of the low starting base. Despite this low penetration of services, because of
the .-or's relatively recent development, the facil.ities provided are generally
modern and perform reasonably well. The investment In the sector (Table 1.1)
averaged 0.5% of GDP during 1982 to
1991; this is just below the typical 
growth rate for developing and developed                     gpu t.. ........., ......2...
countries',  and  too  low  to  satisfy
demand.
1.2       The proposed project would
continue to expand the availability of
telecommunications services. While notex dea.
expected to meet demand fully  (para.18.
1.12),  the  proj ect  would  increase        :
services by about  64% from  1993 to   . ond  ..
19982.  The resulting 10% p. a. growth   il/ suoh *t
rate would be low  compared with the         * o                   sr'od
previous period as a result of HMG's r ,,t
conservative   approach   to   sector  ......                O48 >
development, mainly due to financial                  ~
constraints. The proposed project also          ~'WD~l   U4*A~
aims   to   improve   the   operator's   "  *        *V~Pt          $N*
performance and develop a sector reform
strategy - - especially in the light of
international trends - - in a way that
would best suit Nepal's political and cultural environment.  In this way the
project would lay the foundation for appropriate continued improvement in the
performance and development of telecommunications in Nepal over the next decade.
Developed countries (e.g. France and Japan) invest about 0.7Z of GDP in t.lecoomAmiostions, whereas LDCs
Invest as an average O.X of GDP. Special oases suoh as Malaysia, which is still building up its
infrastructure bass, invested about 2% pas. during the same period.
'An Increase in working lines from 72,950 to 119,980; equivalent to a growth of 10.47X p.a.



2
B. Sector Structure
1.3       The Ministry of Communications (MOC) of His MaJesty's Government (HMC
is responsible for communications in Nepal. Under this Ministry services are
provided by the Nepal Television Corporation (NTVC), the Postal Service
Department, the Broadcasting Services Development Committee (BSDC), and the Nepal
Telecommunications Corporation  (NTC).   NTC is responsible for all puLlic
telecommunications services. While' dedicated networks by other public sector
entities are not prohibited, no other entity owns or operates dedicated network
facilities of significant size.
1.4       The first public entity for providing telecommunications services in
Nepal, the Telecommunications Departmerit of Nepal (TDN), was established within
the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications in l959. This department's
mandate was defined in the Telecommunications Act 2019 of 1963. The Act prim-
arily addressed the provision of telegraph services and still applies to laying
wire lines and erecting posts. In October 1969, as a condition of the first IDA
credit (Credit 166-NEP), TDN was transformed into the Nepal Telecommunications
Board (NTB), under the same Ministry, and given expanded telecommunications
responsibilities. Under the subsequent Communications Corporation Act 2028 of
1972, a separate MOC was formed, and in June 1975, the formation of the existing
Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC) further separated the telecommun-
ications operator from the Government.
1.5       Various Ministries  and NTC  share  regulatory  functions  for  the
telecommunications sector in Nepal.   The Cabinet approves tariffs based on
proposals by the Ministries of Finance and Communications.   The granting of
licenses to users of the electromagnetic spectrum is handled by the Frequency
Control and Monitoring Section of the XOC which is currently being reorganized
and strengthened under an International Telecommunication Union (ITU) sponsored
project. The Ministry of Communications, which lacks technical expertise, relies
on NTC for type approval of terminal equipment, the provision of which is open
to the private market.
C. Service
Accems to Service
1.6       Telphone. Nepal's telephone density, with only 0.32 working lines per
100 population9 is among the lowest in the world (e.g. Kenya 0.66, India 0.57,
Malawi 0.28, Bangladesh 0.17). Furthermore, telephone services are concentrated
in the urban areas where 1.5 million people are served with a telephone density
of only 4.0 per 100 population (compared with Indonesia 6.1, Papua New Guinea
5.9, Kenya 5.0). Most rural areas have little or no access to telecommunications
service of any kind. As of July 1991 about 300 telephones, Including 40 long
distance public call phones, served rural areas with a population of 17.5 million
people. However, on completion of the ongoing IDA-financed Fourth Project
' As of July 1991, Nepal had 61,650 working lines for 19.32 mllion people.



3
(Credit 1588-NEP), some 3,200 additional telephones will be provided (para.
1.17). Annex 1.1 summarizes the telephone coverage by urban and rural areasA.
1.7       For development purposes the country is d1iided into five Regions, but
real authority rests with the 14 Zones and their subdivisions, the 75 Districts,
which are headed by Chief District Officers. Thirty of the 75 districts have
their own telephone exchange; 26 are served with long distance public call
offices (extensions from exchanges in neighboring districts) plus some extended
lines for direct subscribers; and 19 lack modern telephone facilities and depend
on poor quality voice radio lirks or telegraph services. Further details of
geographical coverage of telephone service by administrative area are presented
in Annex 1.2.
1.8       Telx and Telgraph. Telex se4-vice is provided to 599 subscribers in
Kathmandu and 8 other localities through a single 768 line exchange. In line
with world trends, telex is gradually being replaced by facsimile service which
is particularly appropriate for Nepal because it can easily transmit both English
and Sanskrit characters.
1.9       Public  telegraph  service provides  the basic  telecommunications
facilities throughout rural areas. It operates in all 75 districts, and in many
towns it is the only telecommunications link. The quality of the service varies
considerably. Modern telegraph service with bi-lingual teleprinters and stored
program display facilities connected to an automatic gentex network is available
in the Kathmandu Valley and the 8 major urban centers along with telex service.
Manual telegraph service relying on voice communication is provided through a
variety of modern digital transmission and older VHF radio links.  Also there
remain telegraph services to 30 localities which rely on morse code.  These
generally use low quality links over HF radio systems which sometimes are usable
for limited voice cowmunication.
Usage of Service
1.10      The available data is inadequate to determine service use by customer
type accurately because NTC's existing telephone rates and records r;o not
differentiate among business, government and residential subscribers. However,
a sample of subscribers in various exchanges suggests that 15 to 20X of the lines
are for government services (including lines to public officers' residences paid
by the government).   Since many telephones in residential homes are used
extensively for business, differentiating between business and residential use
is virtually impossible and not relevant for the proposed project as there is no
differentiation under existing or proposed tariffs.
4 As of th. end of the Fourth Project exohauge program (October 1991) Nepal had: A manual exob1-gee with
600 lins, 2 cross-bar *xchanges with 10,000 lines, and 41 digitol electronio exohanges with 67,100
lines.



4
Demand for Service
1.11      In Nepal, the percentile gap between expressed demand for telephone
servica and available telephone lines has remained about the same In the last ten
years (Figure 1.1). Although during that period the number of Installed lines
Increased by a factor of six, the unsatisfied expressed demand also increased by
a factor of six.  It is difficult to estimate true demand for service.  The
historic demand figures, based on waiting lists, tend to reflect the supply
constraint rather than the real demand for service. From this low demand base
the rate at which demand will grow tends to be underestimated. Waiting lists are
notoriously inaccurate because telephone demand is not registered in areas where
there is no service, the waiting list registration fee was a nominal NRsl.00,
which encourages multiple registrations for a single applicant (the registration
fee was increased to NRs5O in October 1991), and the very long waiting time for
service discourages many from applying.
1.12      In order to improve
the accuracy of its forecasts,
NTC  has  undertaken  detailed                 Demand and Supply
field surveys. Based on these             Working Lines v's Expressed Demand
surveys, the total demand for          Ines (Thousands]
service   at  July  1995   is       120 L
expected to be about 133,000                                   ........  
line.s.  The project's size has
been set to approximately meet                           ..         ....-....
this demand. However,  as the        do ..... ....             ........
proJect's preparation has been.-                                . ...
delayed due to political reform      20,
in the country, completion is                                        .
not  expected  until  1997  or                                           191i
1990  1591  1991  1193  1194  1359  1998  1137  1999  1999 1990   191
1998, and therefore some unmet                          Years
demand for telephone service at
that time is expected.  There                  wOrkigtd*  --xpr,s,,d Ogad
is little risk, therefore, that   Expressed demand beod on waiting fltl.
the  project  would  provide
assets that would remain idle.
Annex 1.3 contains supply and         FIGURE 1.1:  Expressed Demand and Supply
demand data for 1980-1996.                       of Telephone Service
Existing Facilties, Service Quality and Proposed hnprovements
1.13      Loeal Exchange Networks.  Following a major program to install modern
equipment under the Third and Fourthi Projects (IDA Credits 799-NEP and 1588-NEP),
Nepal enjoys relatively modern exchange facilities. Over 992 of exchange lines
are automatic, of which 87X are now digital.   Consequently, about 86X of
subscribers have access to Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) service.  Despite the
new network, there is evidence that local network congestion during busy hours
of the day has begun to increase above acceptable levels. Until the Fourth
Project, NTC had inadequate means of measuring and controlling such congestion.
With the modern digital exchanges, indicators are now available but NTC is still



developing the skills to monito. these indicators properly and take effective
corrective action.
1.14      NTC is spending considerable effort during the Fourth Project to
upgrade its outside plant network, and, as a result, these facilities' perform-
ance has improved considerably. For Kathmandu Valley, monthly faults5 per 100
subscribers have fallen from 65 in 1983/4 to 33 in 1985/6 and 16 in 1989/90.
Concerted efforts are being made to improve this performance which is still far
below international standards (1 to 3 faults per 100 subscribers per month) and
worse than fault levels in other Asian countries (e.g. Philippines and Indonesia
have about 9 faults per 100 subscribers per month).
1.15      The proposed project would increase the number of installed lines from
77,700 to 138,550 (78% increase).  'n addition, to handle the additional traffic
from the increased lines, a signi>, ant expansion of the inter-exchange network
and a new tandem exchange would be 'rovided. The additional circuits would be
desi ned to improve network security and reduce congestion, thereby Improving the
call completion rate. Also under the proposed project the remaining four manual
exchanges (0.8% of the lines) would be replaced with digital equipment. NTC
plans to replace the remaini-nZ. analog exchanges (10,000 lines) during the next
development phase. The project would also focus on monitoring and imprGving the
network's performance, with special emphasis on outside plant.
1.16      Long-slanceNetwori. The development of Nepal's main long-distance network
began with an analog microwave system (still in operation) covering the central
part of the country. Under the Fourth Project, this network was extended with
digital microwave links to the east from Kathmandu up to Bhadrapur and Ilam and
to the west from Nepalgunj up to Mahendra-Nagar. Spur links, based upon three
radial systems originating in Biratnagar, Kathmandu and Nepalgunj, feed regional
exchanges. Under the proposed project a new digital microwave link will provide
physical diversity to the aging analog microwave link Kathmandu-Pokhara-
Nepalgunj, thereby completing the basic digital trunk network. Some additional
spur links will also be provided.
1.17      Raml Long.dlstance Network.  Due to Nepal's mountainous terrain and high
percentage of rural population, NTC has paid special attention to developing its
rural networks economically.   Rather than install exchanges in every town,
transmission links are often used to more economically bring traffic to larger
centers for switching. These links comprise a combination of small capacity
microwave systems installed under a Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
program, multi-access radio transmission systems (MARTS) funded by IDA under the
current Fourth Project, and miscellaneous Very High Frequency (VHF) and High
Frequency (HF) systems. The JICA-supported network reaches 32 of the larger
urban centers, of which nine are equipped with small telephone exchanges, and the
remaining locations are provided with a minimum of 6 telephones each, thereby
providing basic service. The MARTS systems are still under construction under
the Fourth Project. When installed, four large systems (capacity of about 500
lines each) and sixteen small systems (capacity of about 130 lines each) will
provide service to 425 localities, allowing for connection of about 3,200 rural
' About 85X of faults ae from outside plant f*iluzes.



6
telephones to provincial And rural exchanges. The proposed project would include
an extension to the JICA network f.rom, three exchanges in the Eastern Region
(Rajbiraj, Biratnagar and Ilam) to feed eleven localities and the provision of
three additional MARTS systems.
1.18      About one hundred VHF links provide service to prorincial and rural
subscribers; about fifty of them will be replaced by MARTS. HF links provide
basic emergency-type communications to thirty places. As modern services are
provided to more of the rural localities, VHF and HF systems will be relocated
to extend service to the smaller towns and villages. Under the proposed project
additional VHF and HF services will also be provided.
1.19      Intemadond Seriee.  International  service  is  provided  through  the
Sagarmatha satellite earth station, which is connected to the INTELSAT system and
provides 72 telephone circuits and 52 telex circuits througn 69 channels, and one
microwave transmission system to India which carries about 100 telephone and 10
telex circuits. International Subscriber Dialing service (ISD) is available to
36 countries. The increase in international traffic during the past year has
resulted in a gradual increase in circuit congestion, and an expansion of
facilities is planned under the Fifth Project.
D. Sector Goals and Strategy.
1.20      The Government has announced the following medium-term development
objectives for the telecommunications sub-sector:
(a)  To  provide  telephone  connections,  with  automatic  long-distance
facilities, in all 75 districts;
(b)  To install exchanges in places where demand for telephone is 100 or
more and trunk circuits are available;
(c)  To satisfy the demand in areas with existing exchanges;
(d)  To reach a density of one telephone  (0.8 main lines)  per 100
population by the year 2000;
(e)  To enhance the long-distance network's reliability by providing
alternate routing;
(f)  To introduce new services, such as data communications, paging and
mobile telephone, as required; and
(g)  To promote a well-conceived organizational structure and management
systems and practices that enable NTC to operate efficiently.
1.21      These objectives are reasonable and achievable in the medium term, and
HMG's development of a clear set of targets reflects the positive and progressive
attitude of HMG and NTC.    However, the targets are very specific regarding
development and technical issues, reflecting NTC's strong involvement in their



7
preparation. As a result, they do not address important aspects of franchise,
ownership or operational performance.
E. Sectoral Issues.
1.22      Over the past four projects, with IDA's active encouragement, HMG has
transformed the telecommunications operator from a Department into al independent
Government-owned corporation. Although NTC's overall performance is relatively
weak when measured against international standards,it has gradually developed
into one of the best performing government corporations in Nepal as a result of
project-related institutional development. In particular, its network structure
is sound, and national and international service quality is reasonable and
steadily improving.
1.23      Recent rapid technology change has created opportunities for indepen-
dent private operators to provide a variety of services efficiently.  This,
coupled with an international trend of countries reforming the structure of their
telecommunications operations plus a growing demand for more and varied services,
compels a review of the sector's structure.   That review should include a
reassessment of the roles of the government, NTC, and private companies, and of
competition. HMG has expressed an interest in sector reform. In June 1991, IDA
held a two-day seminar in Kathmandu attended by representatives of HMG, NTC,
DANIDA and FINNIDA6 (see Annex 1.4). The seminar's goal was to alert HNG to
international telecommunications reform trends and discuss the current sector
structure and issues. IDA concluded from the seminar that an organized review
of the sector was timely. That review should examine, inter-alia, the following
sector issues:
(a)  Policy Mechanism:  HMG needs a mechanism for developing and regularly
reviewing sector policy.    Although  some  long-term  targets  for
telephone development have been set, HMG still needs to develop a
broader policy framework and mechanism for reviewing and updating
policies.
(b)  Lector Structure and Options for Privatization:  HMG needs to review
the public and private sector's roles in delivering a variety of
telecommunications related services. The Act creating NTC provides
for part private ownership, but HMG has not pursued this option.
However, NTC already uses the private sector in a variety of small
ways in providing tel )hone services.   These include civil works,
provision of terminal equipment, and public call office management.
HMG needs to determine how the private sector could play a greater
role in providing telecommunications services more effectively than
NTC -- either in competition with or as a substitute for NTC.
Provisions for further private sector involvement would need to
consider the type, quality and coverage of service, the provision of
social and unprofitable services, and ownership arrangements and
0 DAN7IDA li the Danish InternationalL Dovelopment Agency; FINNIDA Is the Fianiuh International Dovelopment
Agency.



access to capital.  Access to adequate foreign exchange funds for
sector development has been and will be a key consideration as HMG,
and hence NTC, has been largely dependent on grant aid and IDA credits
for sector investment.
(C) RegUlatign:   NTC  is  effectively  unregulated,  however  explicit
regulation of telecommunications services would be necessary once the
structure differs from the self-regulating state monopoly model.
Apart from regulating the frequency spectrum, interconnection
arrangements, service quality, and technical standards, a regulator
should be the arbitrator between the government and NTC to ensure
tariffs are kept at reasdnable levels. However, setting up effective
regulation in developing countries has proven difficult. The sector
is technically and legally complex, and the high levels of capital
investment involved can be distractive to fair decision-making. Also,
low government salaries and restrictive civil service rules constrain
regulators from attracting quality staff. Within these constraints
HMG needs to determine what to regulate, who should regulate, and how
to enact regulation and set up the regulator.
(d)  Independence of NTC Qperat,on:   NTC's Board members, political
appointees from within the government, have little or no experience
in commercial business.   Yet the Board has over-managed NTC's
operations by becoming unnecessarily involved in day-to-day decision
making.   In the event that NTC would remain fully or partially
government owned, any review should consider mandating that most Board
representatives be independent private and business persons of
national repute. Furthermore, any restructuring should aim to limit
the Board's involvement in NTC's day-to-day operations by delegating
more responsibilities to NTC management and then hold management more
accountable for the quality and efficiency of service performance.
1.24      Under the proposed project HNG would engage consultants to review the
current sector arrangements and identify options for addressing the above issues.
The consultants would present their initial findings and recommendations to a
forum of appropriate Nepalese and IDA representatives. Based on the forum's
findings the consultants would refine their report.  HMG would then use the
report to determine what actions to take on the above and any other pertinent
issues. If necessary, HMG would engage consultants also to help in drafting
legislation  and  implementing any organizational changes.    During credit
negotiations, HNG agreed to: (a) not later than December 15, 1992, to engage
consultants, acceptable to IDA, to review the sector's structure and policies
under agreed terms of reference; (b) not later than March 31, 1993, based on the
consultant's report, and in consultation with IDA, establish an appropriate time-
bound sector reform program; and (c) implement that reform program (para. 6.1 a).
The timetable and draft terms of reference are given in Annex 1.5.



9
F. IDA's Role
Past Experience
1.25      IDA's involvement in Nepal's telecommunications sector began in 1969
with a credit of US$1.7 million (Credit 166-NEP of November 1969). Since then
IDA has financed three more operations: Credit 397-NEP for US$5.5 million in June
1973, Credit 799-NEP for US$14.5 million in August 1978 and Credit 1588-NEP for
US$22 million in April 1986 (t:he ongoing Fourth Project). Through these projects
IDA has played a significant role in funding and guiding the expansion of
facilities, the structuring of the sector, and institutional development of the
operator. NTC has complied with on time presentation of its financial statements
and has satisfied IDA's finan,cial covenants. The December 1977 PPAR report for
Credit 166-NEP and the April 1.989 PCR for Credits 397-NEP and 799-NEP rated these
projects as successful overall, contributing significantly to the development of
infrastructure, improving the quality of telecommunications services and
supporting NTC's institutional development. The main problems in the past were
delays in start-up, deciding new technologies, and commissioning some systems.
Important lessons were to: (i) make more realistic implementation schedules, (ii)
assist NTC in making organizational changes before projects start, (iii) advance
procurement actions, and (iv) help NTC finalize financing arrangements in time
for project implementation. NTC, IDA, DANIDA and FINNIDA have jointly taken
these lessons into account.  As a result, this project has undergone signif-
icantly more preparation than others in the past. In particular, IDA has already
provided assistance to HMG and NTC in the preparation of the proposed project,
including consultants engaged to assist in rural planning, review NTC's human
resource and management arrangements, and participated in tariffs study leading
to specific recommendations on tariff structure, level and adjustment policy
(para.5.5). In addition, ITU consultants helped prepare the Kathmandu part of
the project, and DANIDA consultants helped with outside plant planning.
Moreover, to ensure procurement begins on time, NTC is required to prepare five
specific bid documents prior to credit negotiations (para. 3.23).   Project
financing aill come from a variety of Government bilateral supported loans and
credits for which approval-in-principle has been given and final approval is
being processed.
Rationale for ]IDA Involvement.
1.26      IDA's continued support for Nepal's telecommunications sector through
the proposed Fifth Project and possibly future operations is justified for the
following reasons:
(a)  to support the reform of the telecommunications sector in Nepal.  The
proposed project is part of long-term IDA involvement in the sector
aimed at helping HMG make the telecommunications sector a contributor
to sustained economic growth, a positive agent in the country's socio-
economic developmernt and aimed at making it largely self reliant for
meeting its investment needs. The Bank's cross-country experience in
the telecommunications sector in developing countries is directly
relevant in advisiing HMG on sector structure, management and
organization, on financial relations with the operating entity, on



10
tariff structure, level and adjustment policies, and on the timing and
opportunity for introducing elements of competition and private sector
participation.
(b) to help maintain a necessary balance between physical and
institutional development of NTC. IDA involvement would provide NTC
with necessary assistance for its institutional development, in
particular to strengthen planning, project management, and staff
management, extend the use of computer systems for daily operations,
and provide general strategic-technical guidance.
(c)  to achieve economy in investment costs of equipment.   Apart from
minimizing costs through use of ICB to procure IDA-funded equipment,
IDA's in- ,lvement has created pressures on bilateral suppliers to
maintain competitive prices for their goods. In the case of switching
equipment, the alternative of competition to bilateral appears to have
reduced the cost of goods. In cases where grant funds have been
allocated in a lump sum, the use of ICB prices as benchmarks has
pressured suppliers to lower their costs, allowing more equipment to
be supplied within the same funding limits.
(d) to mobilize and coordinate co-financing. IDA has helped coordinate
the in-depth and extended preparation of this project (para. 1.25),
clarifying the role and conditions of other donors and reaching a high
level of coordination.



II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENTITY
A. Organization
2.1       The Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC) is administered by a
government-appointed Board of Directors which includes the Chairman, who is the
Secretary of the Ministry of Communication, and five voting members. The Board
includes NTC's General Manager who chairs meetings in the absence of the
Chairman, and the Financial Controller, who is usually elected as its non-voting
secretary. The remaining four voting members are appointed by the Government,
usually from other government agencies and state enterprises. The Communications
Corporation Act 2028 allows, inter alia, for a degree of privatization of NTC by
prescribing the following ownership percentages: a minimum of 51Z for HMG, 25X
for NTC employees, and a maximum of 24X for the general public. However, this
provision has not been implemented, and shares have not been issued.
Nevertheless, NTC's other four Board Members are designated with reference to the
provision: (i) one nominal representative of government shares, usually the
Additional Secretary, Ministry of Finance; (ii) one nominal representative of the
employee shareholders, who has been one of NTC's Deputy General Managers;
(iii) one member among well-known persons related to the telecommunications
sector, who usually is a University professor; and (iv) one nominal
representative of private shareholders.   The tenure of the Directors is two
years, and they may be re-appointed.
2.2      -NTC,  like  other  government-owned  corporations,  is  subject  to
government regulations for investment plan approval, foreign credit access, and
staffing and employment conditions. Staff-related matters are governed by Public
Service Commission (PSC) rules.   Recently the PSC delegated its authority
regarding NTC to a Committee comprising NTC staff and one non-NTC member. This
is a positive step in providing more autonomy to the entity.
2.3       NTC's General Manager is the chief executive officer and is appointed
by HHG, not by NTC's Board of Directors.   NTC's organization chart is shown in
Annex 2.1. Three Deputy General Managers (DGMs) head the following Divisions:
(i) Operations and Maintenance, which includes five O&N Regions (Biratnagar,
Kathmandu, Birgunj, Butwal and NepalgunJ) and has 801 of the staff; (ii) Planning
and Development, which includes Planning, Procurement, Engineering and the
Training Center; and (iii) Finance and Administration, which includes Personnel,
Finance, Financial Management, Business and Administration, and the Internal
Auditor. The Legal Section reports directly to the General Manager.
2.4       NTC recognizes the need for organizational changes to strengthen
planning, upgrade project management capacity, and increase the responsibilities
of regional operations groups. Accordingly, NTC proposes to keep the planning
function under a Planning Division, and create a separate Planning Division to
handle project implementation and procurement. Minor works responsibilities will
be delegated to Regional Operations Groups; and will create Accounts and Sales,
and Operation units in the Kathmandu Regional Office. New technical positions
will be created and staffed to strengthen these new divisions. The proposed
changes are appropriate and timely. However, in conjunction with the proposed
project, NTC will make additional organizational changes, such as decentral-
ization of the personnel functions to permit line managers greater participation



12
in personnel decisions (see Management Issues below). During negotiations an
agreement was reached to (i) implement the proposed new organization structure
by December 15, 1992, and (ii) undertake a review of its personnel structure and
decentralize and delegate appropriate personnel functions  to the various
divisions by December 31, 1992 (para 6.2 a).
B. Management Issues.
2.5       A major constraint to NTC's performance is the ineffectual management
techniques used by upper and middle level managers. During project preparation
IDA engaged a management expert to review NTC's management performance and
recommend improvements.   The expert identified the following main concerns:
(i) the lack of effective day-to-day management practices coupled with a complete
lack of management training, and (li) significant human resource problems
including the lack of a regular manpower plan and serious delays in filling
vacancies (much of these problems stem from the highly centralized personnel
structure which is out of touch with operational needs and is to be decentralized
as noted in para. 2.4). IDA proposes to address this issue as one of the key
components of NTC's Institutional Development Program (IDP) (para. 3.8 and Annex
3.2). Rather than rely on traditional management training classes, in line with
the expert's recommendations, it is proposed that NT( engage foreign consultants
to develop and then guide NTC through a long-term in-house program to develop
more effective management processes and practices. The consultants would be
required to engage a local counterpart to work with them and learn from that
program, provide advice and support on local cultural issues, and gradually take
over the program's longer term management. While NTC's management has agreed to
proceed with the strengthening program, they are cautious about using foreign
consultants to address problems related to imbedded local cultural values, yet
local consultants are not equipped to handle this task.   Therefore, before
engaging foreign consultants, three of NTC's top management would visit a number
of telecommunications companies which have undertaken similar programs. As a
start the Australian and Overseas Telecom Corporation (AOTC) and British Telecom
have agreed to the proposed visit. The NTC managers would meet staff involved
in successful management reform programs, sensitize themselves to the key role
they themselves would need to play in the process, and meet involved consultants.
During negotiations, NTC agreed to appoint, by June 30, 1993, management
consultants acceptable to IDA, for initiating and implementing a management
development program (para 6.2 b).   NTC also agreed on the draft terms of
reference for the consultants given in Annex 2.2.
2.6       Another constraint is NTC's limited planning capacity.  The survey,
planning, and design of outside plant cable networks is in most need of streng-
thening.  NTC has already begun to strengthen the responsible unit with the
assistance of DANIDA consultants. One specialist has been engaged for two years
under the Fourth Project; this program will be continued and additional DANIDA
consultants  engaged under  the  Fifth  Project.    Strategic,  switching  and
transmission planning functions also need to be strengthened. This would be done
through the reorganization proposed by NTC, part of which would include the
separation of planning from implementation responsibilities (para. 2.4).



13
2.7       A further constraint is NTC's lack of modern, integrated management
and operations tools.   The majority of NTC's operations and maintenance
procedures rely on manual systems. Computer-based systems are used for fault
control and subscriber inquiries, and, under the Fourth Project with the help of
consultants, NTC has developed its own computer billing system for processing
bills (see para 2.13).  But these systems are not integrated, and NTC needs
additional integrated computer-based systems for accounting, operations and
maintenance, and planning and development. This deficiency will start to be
addressed under a Institutional Development Program (IDP) component of the
proposed project with the development of a corporate data base. Using continued
FINNIDA technical assistance, and with the provision of additional computers and
associated equipment (to be provided under the project), the corporate data base
will bring together common elements of existing systems and form the foundation
for new systems ultimately to be developed.   In the near term NTC plans to
develop computerized (i) customer record data base, (ii) cable and plant record
system, (iii) order processing system, and (iv) financial and ledger system. NTC
is separately developing systems for inventory control and a fixed assets control
register.
C. Staffing
2.8       NTC's staff numbered 3,494 as of July 15, 1990, equivalent to 74 staff
per 1,000 operating lines. This ratio is marginally better than Sri Lanka (85)
and Bangladesh (97) but very high in comparison with industrialized and other
developing countries where staffing levels range from 5 to 15 staff per 1,000
lines. Staffing details are given in Annex 2.3. As is typical in countries
where staff salaries are low, NTC employs too many low and unskilled workers.
About 57X of staff are classified as "other" which includes semi-skilled
administrative and field staff, and unskilled laborers, drivers, messengers, tea-
boys, etc. NTC has embraced a policy of restraining the growth and restructuring
the composition of its staff by maintaining the level of unskilled and semi-
skilled staff at existing levels and increasing only the number of skilled staff
required as the network expands. Under this policy it is expected that NTC will
reduce its staffing levels to 50 staff per 1000 lines by 1995.
D. Training
2.9       NTC's Telecommunications Training Center (TTC) was established in the
late 1970s with the assistance of ITU and UNDP. The TTC has a staff of 54, 15
being instructors and assistant instructors. The Center is well equipped for its
present purposes: it provided 2,910 staff-weeks of training to 386 persons during
1990. The training is basically technical; administrative and management train-
ing as well as on-the job training are almost non-existent in NTC. In addition,
in FY90 about 80 employees were trained overseas, mostly on technical subjects.
2.10      Non-professional technical staff are recruited only after they have
satisfactorily passed ten months qualification training at TTC. Aspiring NTC
workers compete annually for places in this program and, if selected, are paid
an allowance of NRs350 per month.   Professional level staff are hired from
students with engineering degrees from foreign universities. Recently there has



14
been an abundance of qualified applicants for engineering positions.   The
Tribhuvan University of Nepal plans to provide electronic/electrical engineering
courses starting in 1993.   Staff for switching, transmission, power and air
conditioning are hired from Certificate Level (C.L.) graduates; School Leaving
Certificate (S.L.C.) is required for lower technical skills.
2.11      NTC has applied to the International Telecommunications Union (ITU)
for assistance to engage experts to (i) review and redevelop the TTC course
materials; (ii) train TTC staff in developing new programs for TTC and on-the-job
training; (iii) initiate ways of improving coordination between TTC and field
supervisors; and (iv) establish a system of measuring the adequacy of training
received.
E. Accounting System and Financial Management
2.12      NTC prepares commercial accounts on an accrual basis.  Accounts are
maintained at an acceptable standard, however, they are prepared manually,
resulting in unnecessary delays and lack of on-time detailed ledgers. NTC plans
to use computers being procured under the Fourth Project to (i) automate stores
and fixed assets registers and (ii) automate parts of the ledger system
associated with subscriber accounts. The full computerization and integration
of the accounting and financing data bases with NTC's operational systems is a
mid-term target which will depend first on the completion of a corporate data
base to be developed under the Fifth Project (para. 2.7).
F. Billing and Colection
2.13      During some years NTC was producing its bills through a contract with
the Nepal Computer Center (NCC), however, the service received lacked reliability
(as a result of a NCC strike NTC customers did not receive bills for 5 months in
1990). Under the Fourth Project NTC developed, with consultant support, its own
billing system and now prepares its own bills. Due to an inadequate street
address system in Nepal, customers are required to collect their bills monthly
from NTC at which time they pay the previous month's bill. This arrangement
delays collection by NTC. The bill includes amounts due for services rendered
from the previous month, including rental and per call charges. Average accounts
receivable for 1991 was 93 days. A large proportion of this amount is due to
Government arrears and for services yet to be billed.   To reduce these
receivables NTC is considering charging rental fees in advance (as do most
telecommunications operators) and directly delivering bills to the 400 customers
with the highest accounts and requiring payment within 14 days. It is estimated
these techniques may reduce accounts receivable by up to 15 days.
2.14      Private subscribers generally pay on time to avoid disconnection.
Some ministries, however, do not make timely payments, and NTC is unable to
enforce disconnection for political reasons. The accumulation of arrears from
Government services continues to be a serious problem. Government arrears at the
end of FY89/90 (July 15, 1990) amounted to NRs4O million. New arrears estimated
at NRs30 million were added during FY90/91, bringing the total Government arrears



15
to about NRs7O million at July 15, 1991. NTC's total annual revenues amount to
about NRs67O million, of which the Government's ihare is in the range NRslOO-130
million.
2.15      Although HMG settled with NTC in installments its arrears which
existed at the beginning of the Fourth Project, little progress had been made on
stemming the accumulation of new arrears. Before negotiations of the proposed
credit HHG reduced its arrears to NTC, as of July 15, 1991, to NRs47 million, and
brought to negotiations an installment plan for settling its July 15, 1991
arrears with NTC. In addition, HNG agreed to (i) implement a detailed action
plan for preventing the accumulation of new arrears (see Annex 3.2) and (ii)
annually, beginning in FY93, eliminate arrears by reducing the amount of any
payments due from NTC to HMG by the value of outstanding government arrears to
NTC at the end of the previous financial year through the appropriate budgetary
transfers (para. 6.1 b). The detailed process agreed was for NTC to report HMG
on the arrears accumulated as of July 15, 1993, by October 1993, and for HMG to
pay those arrears before the end of that Fiscal Year (by June 1994). A draft
plan to mti.mize future arrears has already been discussed with IDA.   It
includes: (i) the creation of a ledger system in NTC which would make available
more timely and accurate details on the source and amount of arrears; (ii) the
designation of Government coordinators to work closely with NTC on managing
Government connections; and (iii) agreement on a sanction system whereby NTC
would progressively bar access to international and domestic long distance
services for services with delinquent accounts.
G. Audit
2.16      NTC prepares draft commercial accounts which are audited by private
auditors designated by the Auditor General. Based on the audit, the Auditor Gen-
eral prepares its own accounts for NTC which are submitted for Parliamentary ap-
proval. Only then are the audited commercial accounts made available to IDA.
The auditing of public corporations in Nepal is subject to the following unnec-
essary constraints under Acts related to the old Constitution: (i) the Auditor
General considers that External Auditors have to be designated at the end rather
than beginning of the Fiscal Year; (ii) the Audit Act is interpreted as requiring
the External Auditor to present its report only to the Auditor General, without
copy to the corporation; additionally under the new Constitution, which has not
corrected the previous issues, (iii) the Auditor General has no authority over
public corporations. HMG has advised that the last two constraints will be
corrected under a new Audit Act under consideration. During negotiations, NTC
agreed to (i) furnish to IDA, by April 15 of each year, unaudited financial
statements for the previous year and (ii) furnish to IDA, by July 15 of each
year, audited financial atatements for the previous year, together with
certification and the related report prepared by an acceptable auditor
(para. 6.2 c). These audits will cover (a) NTC's corporate financial statements,
(b) project accounts, (c) special account documentation and (d) Statements of
Expenditures.   Similar audit arrangements have worked well under the Fourth
Project and are considered acceptable for the proposed project.



16
H. Operations and Maintenance, and Institutional Development.
2.17      Over the last decade NTC has steadily improved its operations and
maintenance skills and systems. In particular, under the Fourth Project, NTC
successfully engaged management consultants to assist them in strengthening a
variety of management areas with emphasis on operations, personnel and manage-
ment. NTC has made good progress in implementing the consultant's recommend-
ations, and the more recent improvement in NTC's performance is largely due to
these efforts. Nevertheless, NTC's operational efficiency and service quality
are weak compared to industrialized country standards. Measures of operational
efficiency have been discussed above under staff, billing and collection and
accounting; service quality has been discussed in Section I. Therefore, follow-
ing from the management consultancy, IDA helped NTC develop a rolling in-
stitutional development program. That program has formed the basis of NTC's
related efforts since 1989 and will continue to form the basis for institutional
development actions under the proposed project.   The program identifies key
development initiatives, sets objectives, assigns responsibilities and sets
target dates. A summary of the program's main components is given in Annex 3.2.
In order to measure the effect of NTC's efforts, special attention will be paid
under the project to the performance indicators proposed in Annex 2.4. These
indicators include installed exchange capacity and connected working lines to
measure NTC's construction progress; staff/1000 lines, subscriber fault rates,
fault restoration effectiveness and call completion rates to reflect NTC's
operational effectiveness and efficiency; and a range of financial performance
indicators to measure company financial performance.   During negotiations NTC
agreed to the set of performance indicators proposed and their target values.
In addition,  NTC agreed to  (i) review annually with IDA,  during project
implementation, progress on their Institutional Development Program (IDP) and its
actual performance measured against the agreed construction and operational
performance targets and (ii) take whatever measures are determined appropriate
during those reviews to improve its IDP or construction and operational
performance.



III. THE PROJECT
3.1       The proposed project has been prepared as a time slice of NTC's devel-
opment  program  (1993-98)  primarily  to  support  implementation  of  the
telecommunications component of the Government's Eighth Development Plan 1991-
1995. The project would almost double exchange capacity from about 78,000 lines
to over 138,000 lines and provide complementary transmission, telephone
instrument, and outside plant equipment. The proposed project would integrate
with and expand on network development under the Fourth Telecommunications
Project (Credit 1588 - NEP) which was included in the Seventh Development Plan.
IDA's appraisal mission examined and found the proposed investment program fully
consistent with the HNG's sector objectives (para. 1.20).
A. NTC's Investment Program
3.2       NTC's 1993-98 investment program comprises two principal elements:
(i) parts of the Fourth Project (Credit 1588-NEP), which are currently under
completion; and (ii) the proposed project. Although most of the Fourth Project
has been completed, some urban outside plant cabling for exchange networks and
most of the MARTS rural transmission systems have yet to be installed
(para. 1.17). Although the rural component of the Fourth Project will not be
completed until 1994, because of appropriate scheduling, the proposed project can
begin immediately without conflict with this uncompleted works.
B. Project Objectives
3.3       The proposed project aims to (a) address network shortages and improve
network quality by (i) increasing telephone penetration in a balanced manner in
urban areas, (ii) completing the provision of automatic, long distance, telephone
service in all of Nepal's 75 Districts, (iii) expanding the national and inter-
national telecommunications infrastructure to cope with increased traffic from
the enlarged network, and (iv) replacing and upgrading obsolete equipment; (b)
improve NTC's performance, especially related to planning, administration and
management, project management, and quality of service and efficiency through a
balanced institutional development program; and (c) address the major sector
issues (para. 1.23) by establishing an agenda for review and reform of the
sector.
C. Project Description
Main Components.
3.4       The project's main components are:
(a)  expansion of telephone services in Kathmandu valley through the
provision of about 43,000 new lines of exchange and associated
transmission, outside plant and subscriber terminal equipment
(para. 3.5 and Annex 3.1);



18
(b)  expansion of telephone services outside of Kathmandu Valley in both
provincial and rural areas through the provision of about 18,000 new
lines of exchange and associated transmission, outside plant and
subscriber terminal equipment and special satellite facilities for
some extremely remote locations (para. 3.6 and Annex 3.1);
(c)  expansion of the interconnecting national and international networks
through the provision of a new toll/gateway exchange, expansion of
national international transmission systems and international
satellite facilities, and provision of a data network (para. 3.7 and
Annex 3.1);
(d)  an  institutional  development  program  which  includes  consultant
services for improving NTC's management, planning and corporate
computer facilities (para. 2.17, 3.8 and Annex 3.2); and
(e)  consultant services to review and make recommendations concerning
sector reform issues (para. 1.23, 3.9 and Annex 1.5).
3.5      KAhmandu Valley Telephone Expansion. Installation of about 43,000 lines of
new exchange and related telecommunications equipment (transmission, outside
plant cables and accessories, and teruinal equipment) to (i) provide new
telephone services at eight new exchange locations in the Valley and (ii) expand
existing telecommunications facilities at five existing exchange locations. In
conjunction with this program, NTC will undertake a program of (i) recovery and
reinstallation of about 2,000 lines of outmoded electronic exchange equipment in
oider to rationalize the use of old and new equipment at least cost and (ii)
upgrading of lines of digital exchange equipment to make them compatible with new
equipment to be installed. The location of new exchanges in Kathmandu Valley has
been planned on the basis of long-term demand estimates derived from detailed
area surveys. About 15X of outside plant equipment in this component will be
used for pre-investment for ongoing works (para. 3.22).
3.6       Expansion of Telephone Serices Oate Kwhmandu VaUey. About 18,000 lines of new
exchange and related telecommunications equipment will be installed in urban,
provincial and rural centers outside Kathmandu Valley to provide (i) new
telephone services at sixteen new exchange locations, including ten very small
exchanges at remote towns, (ii) expand existing telecommunications facilities at
six existing exchange locations, and (iii) replace the four remaining manual with
automatic exchanges.  This component will include, similar to the Kathmandu
Valley component, an extensive recovery and reinstallation program of older type
electronic exchanges involving about 7,000 lines.   This component will also
include the provision of (i) three small MARTS systems and fifty single channel
radio systems for providing service to remote localities, (ii) satellite services
to six extremely remote towns in districts north of the Himalayas; and
(iii) transmission links to connect eleven rural locations. Although this last
item will be financed by JICA and proceed independently from the remainder of the
proposed project, the transmission links it will provide have been planned to
integrate properly with the project and are fully consistent with NTCs overall
development plan.



19
3.7       &vpanstnofNadonalandIntenmaonainetworks. This component involves (i) the
expansion of the national transmission network to accommodate additional traffic
and provide a degree of network security through diversity, (1i) the expansion
of international service access through an increase In the number of links to and
through NTC's satellite earth station as well as the provision of a new
transmission link to India, and (iII) the provision of a small data switching
network.
3.8       NTC*'sInstIutIonalDeve?opmentProgram. Special emphasis has been placed on
continuing institutional development which was a major thrust under the Fourth
Project (see Annex 3.2). Key areas to be addressed under the project includo
(i) strengthening of planning functions (para 2.6), particularly for outside
plant;  (ii) strengthening NTC's management  skills  (para.  2.5);  (ii) the
development of a corporate data base as the foundation fo= improved management,
operations and customer support facilities (para. 2.7); and (iv) strengthening
of project management. NTC will use consultants to assist with most elements of
this program (para. 2.17, 3.8). In support of this component, additional training
equipment, office equipment and computers will be provideJ.
3.9       Sector Refonn Program.   In conjunction with the project, the Government
would, under this T/A component, engage consultants to help review and develop
policy positions regarding sector's structure, NTC's future ounership, and
private sector's role in providing telecommunications services. Sector reform
issues are discussed in para. 1.23, 3.9 and Annex 1.5. Conditionalities linking
sector reform to the project are detailed in paragraph 1.24.
D. Project Cost
3.10      The total project cost is estimated at US$116.5 million (excluding
interest during construction), of which US$97.5 million is projected to be the
foreign cost (direct and indirect). Detailed cost estimates for the project are
presented in Annex 3.3 and summarized in Table 3.1.
3.11      All costs are in December 1991 prices and based on recent price quota-
tions from equipment suppliers. Physical contingencies are 5X for equipment and
10  for civil works.   The price escalation of foreign costs is calculated
according to anticipated international price movement of 3.91 per annum during
the project's implementation period (1993-98). The price escalation for local
costs is calculated according to the projected local inflation rate, which is
estimated at 8% in FY92/93, 7% in FY93/94, 6.5% in FY94/95, and 61 per annum
thereafter. Interest during construction is calculated by applying an on-lending
rate of 9.5% p.a. (para. 3.13) to the average value of the project capital works
expected to be classified as work in progress for each year. The proportion of
interest during construction attributable to the proposed foreign loans and
credits to the Government is allocated to foreign cost; the remainder is
allocated to local cost.



20
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign Cost
NrS Million              us. Million     as % of
Looal   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Lculoment & Services      231.5  3.35a.0  3,659.6     5.5   80.0   85.6
Telephone Exchanges        66.0  1,086.0  1,162.0     1.5   28.0   27.5   94.3
Transmission               53.0    986.0  1,039.0     1.5   23.5   25.0   94.9
Outside Plant             102.6    993.0  1,096.6     2.5   23.5   26.0   90.8
Customer Premises           3.5     96.5    100.0     0.0    2.5    2.5   96.7
Office & Training           2.0     44.0     46.0     0.0    1.0    1.0  96.2
Power, Vehicles & Misc.     4.5    142.5    147.0     0.0    3.5    3.5   97.1
Civil Works               375.5    204.0    578.6     9.0    5.0   14.0
Outside Plant Duoting     120.5    109.5    230.0     3.0    3.0    6.0   47.7
Buildings and Sites       265.0     94.5    349.5     6.0    2.0    8.0   27.0
CongUltgnov                 1.0    130.0    131.0     0.0    3.0    3.0
Management                  1.0     10.5     11.5     0.0    0.0    0.0   92.6
Project Support             0.0    119.5    119.5     0.0    3.0    3.0  100.0
Total Base Cost           608.0  3.692.0  4,300.0    14.5   88.0  102.5   85.9
Physical ContIngenoy     52.5    198.5    251.0     1.5    4.5    6.0   79.0
Price Contingency       124.5    221.5    346.0     3.0    5.0    8.0   64.0
total Prolect Cost La     785.0  4,112.0  4,897.0    19.0   97.5  116.6   84.0
Int. During Construction (IDC)   271.0  46.5    317.5  6.5    1.0    7.6   14.6
lotal Financina Required  1056.0  4,158.5  6,214.5    25.6   98.6  124.0   79.8
L The project cost Includes an estimated US 1.3 million oquivalent In duties.
l Costs are rounded to nearest 0.5 million.
E. Proj            g
3.12      Table 3.2 presents the project financing plan.   The proposed IDA
credit of US$55.0 million would provide about 44X of the total required finanicing
and cover about 58X of the foreign cost component.   The local costs of the
project (excluding interest during construction-IDC) amounting to NRs785 million
(US$19.0 million) plus the indirect component of the foreign costs and some minor
direct foreign payments would be financed from NTC's internal cash generation.
Additionally, NTC will pay HMG interest on credits proceeds made available to NTC
from the date of withdrawal as stated in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The
balance amounting to about US$39.5 million is expected to be financed by grants
to HHG from DANIDA (Denmark), FINNIDA (Finland) and the Japanese Government. The
amounts shown in Table 3.2 reflect the initial parallel fi-aancing offers to HMG.
These offers are currently under negotiation by HMG and NTC with the respective
agencies and the suppliers in those countries in respect of quantities of
equipment and their unit costs. Hence, the amounts quoted above are subject to
changes although any changes are expected to be minor.



21
Tiable 3a: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Source of Financing         Local   Foreign    Total    % of Total
Belgium                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
DANIDA, Denmark              0.0      18.0      18.0      14.5
FINNIDA, Finland             0.0      11.0      11.0       8.9
Japanese Government (JICA)   0.0       8.5       8.5       6.9
Nepal (NTC)                 25.5       6.0      31.5      25.4
IDA                          0.0      55.0      55.0      44.4
Total Flnancina             25.5      98.5     124.0     100.0
&I Costs sro rounded to nearest 0.5 million.
3.13      The proposed credit would be made to the Government of Nepal for 40
years, including 10 years of grace on repayment of principal, at a service cbarge
rate of 0.75Z p.a.. HMG would on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit to NTC
according to a Subsidiary Credit Agreement acceptable to IDA (para. 6.3 a). HMG
would on-lend the credit to NTC in US dollars at a variable rate based on the US
dollar six (6) months LIBOR plus a spread of 3.5X p.a. and for a period of 15
years including 5 years grace on repayment of principal (para. 6.1 c). Based
upon average six month LIBOR rates from 1988 to 1990, this would imply an
onlending rate of about 82 to 10, which would approximate international
commercial lending rates plus an allowance to compensate HHG for the guarantee
it provides to IDA and the cross currency risk between US dollars and SDRs.
Execution of than Subsidiary Credit Agreement would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.14      Other project-related financing will be passed on to NTC under
different arrangements.   Under previous projects, rather than on-lend grant
money, the Government increased its equity in NTC. Under the proposed project,
a more commercial arrangement wil' be employed whereby grants from DANIDA and
FINNIDA for project equipment would be passed on to NTC as loans; the terms have
yet to be determined, however initial agreement with HMG/NTC seeks for terms
similar to on-lending of IDA funds. Technical assistance not directly related
to increased assets would not be reflected in NTC,s books, although these costs
have been included in the project cost table. The total financing allocated to
the JICA project is estimated to be US$8.5 million, which contract has been
signed and HMG has agreed to pass on as equity contribution to NTC.  This amount
is included in the project cost table.
F. Procurement
3.15      Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in
Table 3.3.  Details are provided in Annex 3.4.  Contracts for about US$52.0
million (including contingencies) for goods and services would be awarded



22
according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures using the Bank's
standard procurement guidelines. NTC is preparing a revised Invitation to Bid
and draft Contract which, when cleared by IDA, would be used for all ICB
procurement financed under the proposed credit. Items to be procured according
TAble_ 33:   SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
P___ueMent Methogd
Project Element                                    lCD          LCB         Othee          NRF         Total
1. Equipmont:
Telephone Exchanges                            24.5                        3.0           2.5       30.0
(24.5) 03.0)                                        (27.5)
Transmission Equipment                          4.0                       2.56b         21.0       27.6
(4.0)                     12.5)                     (6.5)
Outside Plant                                  13.0                                     17.0       30.0
(13.0)                                              (13.0)
Customer Premises Equipment                     2.5                                                 2.6
(2.5)                                               (2.5)
Offioo & Training Equipment                                               1.0                      1.0
(1.0)                    (1.0)
Power Equipment, Vehicles                       4.0                                                 4.0
& Miscellaneous                               (4.0)                                               (4.0)
2. CivDi Works:
Outside Plant Duoting                                                                    7.0        7.0
Buildings and Sites                                                                     10.5       10.6
3. Consultancles:
Toohnloal Assistance                                                      0.5            3.5        4.0
(0.5)                    (0.6)
Total                                          48.0           0.0          7.0          61.5      116.5
(48.0S         0.0         17.0)                    (65.01
Ig: Figures In parentheses are the respeotive amounts finanoed by the IDA oredit. N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed. Costs are
rounded to nearest 0.6 million.
a.  Includes Direct purchase, International and local shopping, IDA prooedures for solootion of consultants, expenditures on
enginooring and administrative overheads end custom duties of the order of US$1.3 million.
b.  Includes direot purchase of proprietary Multi Access Radio equipment (US$1.2 million), equipment to extend oxisting PCM,
mlorowave systems and earth station facilities (US$ 1.6 million).
o.  Inoludes computers, copiers, printers and other miceollaneous office and training equipment to be procured under
International and looal shopping (US$0.9 million).
to  ICB  include         (1)    switching  exchanges,  both  for  expansion  of  existing
equipment and new exchanges; (ii) some transmission equipment, including small
satellite earth stations; (iii) a portion of outside plant items such as copper
cablo and miscellaneous jointing materials; (iv) subscriber terminal equipment;



23
(v) smal  rural telephone exchanges and data switching equipment; and (vi) other
items including powerplant and airconditioning equipment, and vehicles.
Depending on the outcome of the tender for switching equipment, whether is to be
procured from existing suppliers or from new suppliers, it could be necessary to
have direct purchase of some interphase switching equipment; a provision of
US$2.7 million has been set aside for this eventuality. Transmission equipment
to the value of US$2.8 million would be procured through direct negotiation.
This would include (i) three systems of multi access radio equipment -- to
standardize and allow NTC flexibility in deployment, direct purchase from the
supplier of the same system type provided under the Fourth Project would be
permitted, and (ii) a variety of proprietary items needed to expand existing
facilities including PCM, microwave, and satellite earth station ezjuipnent. Con-
tracts for computers, office equipment and specialized training equipment costing
less than US$100,000 each with a total value estimated at US$1.0 million may be
procured through international shopping. The remainder of equipment is being
procured bilaterally as follows: (i) outside plant equipment through DANIDA; and
(ii) transmission equipment through FINNIDA. Because arrangements for supply of
switching equipment have not been finalized, as a condition of effectiveness,
IDA should have received for its approval bids documents for the procurement of
switching equipment (para. 6.3 b). Contracts for civil works associated with
underground cable routes, erection of masts and towers, and construction of
buildings would be funded by NTC and bid under HMG LCB. Specialized equipments
for those works, such as ducts and towers, amounting to about US$3.0 million will
be funded by IDA and procured separately under ICB.
3.16      All ICB contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$0.2 million
individually, and all contracts for consultants services, will be subject to
prior review by IDA. This would involve about 85X of the total value of con-
tracts to be financed by IDA. The remaining IDA-financed contracts would be
3ubject to post-award review. Domestic bidders would be eligible for 15X price
preference  when  competing under  ICB  for  supply  of  goods.    Some  local
manufacturers may compete for ducts and masts. Consultants will be selected
according to IDA Guidelines.
G. Disbursement
3.17      In line with the proposal to finance part of the Eight Five-Year
Development Plan, the proposed credit would be disbursed over a six-year period.
Disbursements would be made as follows: (i) lOOX of foreign expenditures for
equipment and material imported directly; lOOX of ex-factory costs of local ex-
penditures for equipment and materials manufactured locally and 80X of expen-
ditures for other items proctued locally; and (ii) lOOX of total expenditures for
consultant services. Full documentation would be required by IDA to support
withdrawal applications for all consultant services. Disbursements for goods
(equipment and material) contracts for less than US$100,000 equivalent would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for
SOE expenditures would be retained by NTC and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions.
3.18      To facilitate project disbursement, a Special Account of US$200,000
would be established at the Nepal Rastra Bank. The account would be used for



24
both foreign and local expenditures of less than US$20,000 equivalent, under all
categories. All other expenditures above US$20, 000 equivalent would be submitted
directly to IDA for payment. Replenishment of the Special Account would be made
quarterly or whenever the available balance in the account dropped below 50X of
the initial deposit. Audit arrangements for SOEs and the Special Account are
discussed in para. 2.16. The project completion date for the proposed credit
will be December 31, 1998, and the closing date of the credit will be June 30,
1999. The estimated disbursement schedule, given in Annex 3.5, is based on the
standard disbursement profile for all Bank telecommunications projects in Asia
during FY78-FY91.
H. Progress with Project Preparation
3.19      HMG/NTC made good progress in project preparation before coming for
and during negotiations which were held between 16 and 20 March, 1992: (i) HNG's
arrears to NTC as of July 15, 1991, were reduced to NRs47 million, and more
important, this reduction was made through direct payments from HMG' s Departments
as a result of better coordination between HKG and NTC (see Annex 3.2); (ii)
during negotiations agreement was reached on an installment plan for settling
HKG's arrears as of July 15, 1991 plus a clear agreement for payment before end
of the following Fiscal Year of any new arrears; (iii) there was agreement on a
schedule for the procurement of switching equipment (evaluation by May 31, 1993
and contract signed by August 1993) and engagement of a consultant (by April
1992) who will assist NTC in the preparation of the tender document; (iv) it was
also agreed that a provision of US$2.7 million will be established to cover the
eventuality of direct purchase of switching interphase equipment if the tenders
are awarded to other than the suppliers of the existing equipment; (v) NTC
submitted and IDA approved a manpower plan for reorganization of the Development
and Planning Division; (vi) NTC presented and IDA approved four tenders documents
(microwave transmission, distribution frames, telephone instruments, primary
power and air conditioning); (vi) progress was achieved in coordinating project
activities with DANIDA and FINNIDA; and (vii) NTC provided documentation of the
agreement signed with the Government of Japan.
1. Project Implementation
3.20      As  with  previous  projects,  NTC  will  undertake  all  technical
construction related to the project. Where equipment installation and operations
procedures are new to NTC, suppliers will be contracted to provide adequate
training to NTC staff and to supervise the installation and initial operation of
their respective equipment. NTC will contract out civil works for buildings,
outside plant ducts and some transmission tower works. NTC will be assisted in
detailed engineering by suppliers and consultants.  For switching equipment,
suppliers will undertake detailed engineering, although NTC plans to engage an
independent consultant, funded under the Fourth Project, to help with technical
contract negotiations.   FINNIDA will engage a consultant to help NTC with
specifications and path designs for the more complex transmission systems.
Consultant support is already being provided by DANIDA to help NTC with detailed
planning and engineering of outside plant; additional consultant support is to
be provided to help supervise construction. NTC staff will wire customer premis-



25
es and install new customer telephone facilities. A schedule 3f construction ac-
tivities is given in Annex 3.6. In order to smooth the demand for specialized
construction staff, NTC has paid special attention to scheduling equipment
deliveries and works progressively throughout the time slice of the project
period. For this reason NTC has included a small portion of outside plant cables
and civil works related to future expansion in the current project.
3.21      NTC has recognized the importance of adequate project management and
taken steps to strengthen its management for this project by (i) proposing to
separate development responsibilities from its Planning and Development Division,
thereby creating a separate and far stronger division to take responsibility for
project management, and (ii) already preparing draft detailed project
implementation plans. During negotiations, NTC: (l) presented a satisfactory
detailed manpower plan demonstrating how sufficient adequately trained staff will
be made available to manage the project and undertake the construction work and
(ii) obtained IDA clearance for bid documents for the procurement of the five key
items needed to begln project work.   In addition,  a project supervision
consultant, engaged by DANIDA but under IDA management (para. 3.25), would assist
NTC to develop and integrate its implementation plans further to form a sound
base for efficiently managing the project. The consultant would then provide
regular technical and project management supervision.
J. Monitoring and Reporting
3.22      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring (i) the physical execution of
the project, (ii) project expenditures, and (iii) NTC's technical, commercial,
and financial performance were developed at appraisal. NTC will furnish progress
reports to IDA every four months, the form and content of which will be agreed
during negotiations. Special performance indicators, which include indicators
for measuring the rate of construction, will be agreed with NTC and details of
actual performance provided to IDA. These indicators are included in Annex 2.4.
K. Supervision Plan
3.23      Supervision of this project will focus upon the following key imple-
mentatlon aspects: (i) timely and effectlve procurement of goods and services
throughout the project's life, (ii) implementation progress and coordination of
the various project elements of civil works, switching, transmission, outslde
plant and connection of subscribers, (iLL) proper coordination of the project
with  related  elements  of  NTC's  other  expansion  program  components,
(iv) implementation of institutional reforms, (v) compliance wlth financial cove-
nants to assure NTC's financial health while it undertake a large investment
program, (vi) implementation of the agreed coordination between H¢G and NTC in
order to avoid accumulation of arrears, and (vii) ongoing dialogue with HZG to
develop s'-tor reform rlans. A consultant, paid for by DANIDA and supervised by
IDA, ls to be engaged to assist by supervising in detail the project's technical
and project management aspects. Draft terms of reference for the supervislon
consultant are given in Annex 3.7.  The consultant would not substitute for
normal IDA supervision, but would enable more-than-normal in-depth supervision
of technical aspects.   DANIDA, FINNIDA and IDA decided that this special



26
supervision was warranted because some technical and project management problems
were discovered too late during the last project, to enable timely and effective
remedial actions to be taken. In addition to the special supervision consultant,
three missions annually for three years, then two missions per year for the
remainder of the project are foreseen as adequate supervision for this project.
The total estimated staff inputs are: (a) a telecommunications engineer and fi-
nancial analyst, with assistance from an economist being drawn as required -- 50
staff-weeks; and (b) a specialist in telecommunications regulation and policy --
10 staff-weeks.
L. Environmental and Health Aspects
3.24      The proposed project is not expected to cause any adverse health or
environmental problems. Construction would involve some minor site clearing,
and access roads may be needed to reach transmission tower sites. Disruption
of road and verge surfaces will occur through the laying of ducts for
underground cable. IDA will supervise to ensure that civil works contracts
require full surface restoration. The disruption of virgin land is expected
to be minimal. No special environmental studies are required. Indeed, the
proposed project should afford more than compensating improvements through
more efficient use of transportation facilities and better delivery of health
care to isolated rural communities.



IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
4.1       NTC maintains its own accounts on a commercial basis and manages its
own financial affairs.   However, its financial authority is 1.mited: price
setting and investment programs have to be approved by HMG.   Furthermore,
although the entity can generate a substantial surplus in local currency, country
wide scarcity of foreign currency forces NTC to restrict its investment program
to the availability of grants and soft loans, and HMG has to allocate these
sources considering their fungibility and other sectors' needs.
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
4.2       NTC's financial performance for 1987-92 is presented in Annex 4.1 and
summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
able 4.: NTC'S KEY HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INDICATORS  1987 - 92
(Nrs million)
Year Ended 16 5July    1987       1988     1S89    1990      1991     1992
-- Actual.   --Et...
OPERATING REVENUES       260      331      516      899      807      927
OPERATING EXPENSES       141      211      255      396      451      548
OPERATING INCOME          109     120      282      304      356      378
NET PROFIT                37       30       96       97       84       90
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES      718     744       134     217      280      614
AVRG. OPERATING ASSETS   400      879    1,24      1,461    1,826    2,073
TOTAL ASSETS            1,745    2,514    2,860    3,192    3,237    3,509
4.3       NTC's past financial performance has been acceptable,  reflecting
expansion of telecommunications facilities and traffic and a decrease in real
terms of operating expenses per working line. This efficiency gain helped to
compensate for politically delayed tariff adjustments.   The local monthly rate
and charge per pulse had not been adjusted since 1985, although internatioimal
ratXs have approximately followed exchange variations with adjustments every 2
or 3 years.  Although these factors have contributed to maintain NTC's total
revenues per line in real terms, it has led to increasing dependency on
international revenues (see Annex 4.2). Operating revenues and expenses have
increased 30X annually in nominal terms, while average operating assets have
increased 39X annually, compared with 15X annual increase for total assets; this
pattern reflects a better use of invested capital.



28
Table A.2: NTC'S KEY HISTORICAL FINANCIAL RATIOS  1987 - 92
Year Ended I 5July         1987     1988     1989    1990     1991     1992
9 --,  Aotuals .t
OPERATING RATIO             68%      64%      49%     57%      68%      68%
RATE OF RETURN              21%      12%      16%      16%     16%      15%
OPER. REVENUEIWRK.LINE US$  483      474      603      508     458      360
OPER. EXPENSINRK. LINE us$  272      302      248      287     2568     208
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-MONTHS  3.65     3.34     4.66     4.28    3.21     3.29
CURRENT RATIO times         1.62     1.37     1.18    1.37     1.64     1.29
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO          42:58    37:63    47:63    46:54    465.4    42:58
DEBT SERVICE RATIO          2.19     1.85     1.53    1.53     1.22     1.09
SELF-FINANCING RATIO        43%      29%      26%      70%     28%       7%
4.4       NTC's key financial ratios for 1987-92 all portray a picture of
financial strength.  The rate of return has been around 15X, well above the 12X
covenanted under the Fourth Project. The sharp decrease in operating revenues
and expenses per working line in 1991 and 1992 reflects an increase in working
lines resulting from completion of the ongoing project.    However, operating
revenues per line are expected to recover rapidly starting in 1993. Accounts
receivable of 3.3 months reflects the effect of HHG arrears (para 2.15); arrears
from private customers are minimal because of NTC's policy of immediate
disconnection when payments are delayed. The low debt equity ratio up to the end
of the Fourth Project reflects the fact that only IDA funds have been on-lent on
commercial terms, while grants from DANIDA, FINNIDA and JICA have been passed on
as HMG equity contributions; this will change during the proposed project, under
which only JICA funds would continue to be passed on as equity contributions,
while funds from DANIDA and FINNIDA associated with purchase of equipment would
be on-lent on terms similar to those used for IDA funds. The very variable self-
financing ratio is not a useful indicator for an entity with NTC's financing
structure: net internal cash generated is only required to pay the local currency
component of the annual investment and excess cash in NRs cannot be effectively
used.
4.5       NTC is subject to corporate income tax, charged.at a rate of 45X on
net income after interest.   Up to FY 91, HMG has not requested NTC to pay
dividends on its equity; although HMG has indicated dividends will be required
in the future (see also para 4.9).
4.6        Until now NTC has revalued its assets periodically to reflect
exchange variation of its foreign currency debt through the introduction of a
special line item "Deferred Charges" in its Balance Sheet. An audit consultancy
and IDA have recommended a change in this procedure.   Beginning with the
financial statements for Fiscal Year 1991 (ended July 15, 1991) NTC will
implement this new monetary correction method, i.e., a system which uses a direct
increase in the value of operating and/or work-in-progress assets.



29
B. Projected Financial Performance and Targets
4.7       NTC's financial statements were projected as explained in Annex 4.3.
Financial Projections for 1993-97 are presented in Annex 4.4; projected key
financial indicators are summarized in Table 4.3 and projected key financial
ratios in Table 4.4. NTC's financial statements were projected for 15 years (up
to year 2008) in nominal NRa and subsequently converted into real NRs of July
1991 to ^.alculate the return on investment (Annex 5.4).   The most basic
assumptions are: (i) implementation of new tariff structure (Annex 5.3) no later
than January 1992; although another tariff adjustment would be required towards
the end of the implementation period of the proposed project, no additional
tariff adjustment was included in the projection; (ii) NTC's ratio of staff per
1,000 working lines will continue decreasing, with a target of 50 staff/l,000
lines in 1995; (iii) salaries per employee and operating and maintenance expenses
vary with inflation in NRs and number of working lines; and (4) treatment of
grants and bilateral funds as explained in para. 3.12 to 3.14.  In addition,
operating revenues ate projected on a by-service basis, considering the increase
in the number of operating lines and the additional traffic per line (details in
Annex 4.3). Average operating assets and total assets include the effect of the
revaluation resulting from exchange rate variation (see para. 4.6). Most of the
proposed Fifth Project investment is scheduled for FY93-97, resulting in
increases in installed lines up to FY97; therefore the projection beyond FY97
reflects a scenario without further investment, which is required for rate of
return calculations, but is unlikely in reality.
Lab; 4,3: NTC'S PROJECTED KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1993 - 98
(NRs million)
YoarEnded ISJuly        1993     1994    1995     1998     1997    1S98
OPERATING REVENUES      1,394    1,691    1,856    2,173    2,384    2,485
OPERATING EXPENSES       621     701      827    1,046    1,313    1,583
OPERATING INCOME         772      8e1    1,028    1.127    1.071     902
NET PROFIT               308     376      449      477      420      310
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES     646    1,424    2,094    1,971    1,685    1,406
AVRG. OPERATING ASSETS  2,246    2,442    3,153    4,605    6,313    7,855
TOTAL ASSETS            3,986    5,246    7,308    9,202   10,768   12,387
4.8       Projections of NTC's financial performance for this period show a
satisfactory financial situation with an increasing lebt/equity ratio and
acceptable levels of revenue and expenses per operating line. The decrease in
the rate of return towards the end of the period to levels below the covenanted
12% is indicative of the need to revise NTC's tariffs and proceed to necessary
adjustments in level and structure around FY95 (para. 5.6). During negotiations
NTC agreed to maintain an annual rate of return on revalued assets, for the
corporation, of no less than 12% p.a. after income tax and before interest
payments (para. 6.2 d), and that before September 30 in each of its fiscal years,
NTC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NTC and satisfactory to IDA,



30
review whether it would meet the 12X rate of return requirement, and if such
review shows that NTC would not meet the required rate of return, take all
necessary measures to do so, including adjustments of the structure and level of
its tariffs (para. 6.2 e). Other financial indicators such as debt/equity ratio
and self-financing ratio are not appropriate as covenants in this case: the
debt/equity ratio will vary according to the on-lending agreements, and the self-
financing ratio is not a useful measure in NTC's case where generation of local
cash, beyond local investment and dividends requirements is of little benefit
(para. 4.4).
bln 4.,.4: NTC'S PROJECTED KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS, 1993 - 98
Yeor Endad 1I JuIy          1993     1994    1996     1996      1997    198
OPERATING RATIO              45%     44%      45%      48%      55%      64%
RATE OF RETURN (1)           23%     24%      21%      16%      12%       8%
OPER. REVENUE/WRK.LINE US$   455     456      462      460      439      422
OPER. EXPENSIWRK. LINE US$   203     201      206      221      242      269
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-MONTHS   3.12     2.96    2.63     2.63     2.63     2.63
CURRENT RATIO times         1.21     1.33     1.77     2.71     4.83     0.00
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO           36:64    42:58    52:48    57:43    60:40    63:37
DEBT SERVICE RATIO          1.52     1.72     1.98     2.19     2.31     2.76
SELF-FINANCING RATIO         45%     29%      26%      36%      49%      70%
Note 1: ROR after Interest and Income tax payments.
4.9       Although it is expected that NTC would begin paying dividends to HMG
in FY94, the projected financial statements do not include this payment and show
the corresponding increase in working capital. The issue of dividend policy
would be discussed with HMG in relation to the sector reform agenda (para. 3.9).
Although the June 1991 Seminar on Sector Reform provided the opportunity to begin
discussion of these issues with HMG, it is clear that further discussions are
required to convey to HMG the message about the interrelationship among tariff
levels, dividend policy, on-lending arrangements, rural and remote areas service
coverage and NTC's access to the foreign exchange market. Annex 5.1 provides
quantitative data on net financial flows from NTC to HMG including taxes,
interest differential between grants and on-lending and equity contributions.



V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits
5.1       The proposed project's benefits would accrue to all sectors of the
economy through improved access to telecommunications facilities and improved
service quality. Users would benefit from the almost doubling in access, from
77,700 installed lines to 138,500 installed lines, and around 50,000 new
subscribers would gain access to the network.   Telecommunications provide a
partial substitute for and contribute to the overall efficiency of physical
transportation, which is especially valuable in a country with Nepal's difficult
topography.   Additionally, business activities would benefit from expanded
transmission facilities for data and information.  Extended facilities would
widen the reach of emergency and government services and add to the quality of
life by providing voice communication opportunities among separated family
members.
5.2       In addition to the business community in Kathmandu valley and major
towns, the rural community would also benefit from the proposed project through
the provision of telecommunications facilities. Serving the rural communities,
which account for more than 90% of the total population, represents a special
challenge in Nepal due to their scattered distribution. Unlike other countries
most of the rural population is more or less evenly scattered in mountain and
plains areas and not concentrated in small farming villages. HMG recognizes
around 4,000 rural villages, which account only for a fraction of the rural
population.   In what remains to be implemented under the current IDA-funded
Fourth Project (para. 1.17) many of these localities will be served through MARTS
and JICA links. This investment represents a significant effort to integrate the
country and would be continued under the proposed project with three additional
MARTS systems, funded by IDA, which would connect some 120 new locations,
providing around 800 rural telephones lines; simultaneously, the current JICA
project would provide three links in the Eastern Region to connect eleven rural
localities. Additionally, six communities in the most remote and inaccessible
areas of the Himalayas would be provided with small satellite dishes to replace
low quality, unreliable HF radio links. The provision of services to rural and
remote areas may represent a financial burden to NTC; the recent IDA tariff study
did not analyze these services in detail. However, their limited number and
special tariffs (Annex 5.3) help to minimize any cross-subsidy. The basic tariff
policy has been to recover average costs from most direct exchange customers,
which represent more than 95% of total traffic. The special cases of rural and
remote public call phones would be the subject of a separate study.
5.3       HMG would also benefit -- first, as a user of the services, and
second, through increased transfers. from the sector.   Crants from DANIDA and
FINNIDA would be on-lent to NTC on commercial terms, generating an inflow of
funds to HMG. The IDA credit and Belgium and French soft loans would also be on-
lent to NTC on commercial terms, thereby increasing the flow of funds from the
sector to the Treasury (due to interest rate differential).   Furthermore,
increased payments from NTC to HMG for sales tax and income tax would add to
total net transfers of around US$104 million in the period 1992-2000 (equivalent



32
to 2.5 years of NTC's revenues). Annex 5.1 shows the detailed transfer to/from
HMG/NTC for the period 1992-2000 without including payment of dividends, which
would most probably begin around FY93/94, increasing the size of the transfer.
5.4       Continued emphasis on NTC's institutional strengthening would improve
its performance as an effective telecommunications entity operating on a sound
commercial basis, increasing its responsiveness to users and the cost
effectiveness of its investment.
B. Tariffs
5.5       Annex 5.2 shows the evolution of the telecommunications tariffs sivne
1978. It shows that rates for local and domestic services were adjusted every
five to seven years, while charges for international services were adjusted every
two to three years, resulting in NTC's increasing dependence on them. Analysis
of revenue by service (Annexes 4.1 and 4.3) shows that there is a minimum amount
(previously negative) resulting from international settlements; this topic would
be studied in detail through a project-financed consultancy. Annex 5.3 compares
current tariffs with the new rates and structure resulting from the Tariff Study
undertaken by IDA in December 1990 and reviewed by NTC's Special Committee during
1991.   These new tariffs, which are acceptable to IDA, were submitted and
apprzved by HMG's Cabinet in October 1991, with validity starting November 17,
1991.
5.6       The current rates (up to November 16, 1991) were overall somewhat low.
Increases in the number of subscribers and efficiency gains have allowed NTC to
absorb decreasing tariff levels in real terms. This has resulted in a distorted
tariff structure, with local monthly rental charges below long-run marginal costs
and international tariffs above the long-run marginal cost. However, the overall
level of the tariff and the resulting revenues needed only a 10% average increase
to stupport and justify the proposed network expansion. The main features of the
recently approved tariffs compared with existing rates are: (a) an effective
increase in the installation fee by keeping it at NRs2,000 but with the amendment
that the telephone set will be now procured by the subscriber; (b) increase in
the monthly rental from NRslOO to NRsl5O with annual review of this rate; (c) 20%
increase in domestic long distance rates, introducing off-peak discounts; and (d)
50% increase of international rates (less than cumulative exchange rate
variation). HMG did not approve: (a) establishment of special rates (cost-based
rates) for rural extensions of exchange lines through JICA, VHF or MARTS links,
and (b) the increase in the registration fee from NRsl to NRs500 (which was
recommended to avoid frivolous registrations and make the waiting list a valuable
planning data).
5.7       It  is  expected  that  NTC's  efficiency  improvements  can  absorb
inflationary  further cost increases  for a few years.    In addition,  an
understanding was reached, during negotiations, that NTC will engage a consultant
to prepare by December 15, 1993 a report reviewing the tariff structure and that
the joint review with IDA of the consultant's recommendations will take place
during the first quarter of 1994. Also, as a component of NTC's institutional
strengthening program, a study would be made to review all international
settlement agreements. The study's objective would be to optimize the number of



33
routes and circuits per route, according to transit and revenue sharing
agreements, in order to reduce NTC's international operating costs.
C. Return on Investment
5.8       The estimated real financial internal rate of return of the project
based oni incremental financial flows (FRR) is 19X which is considered to be above
the cost of capital for NTC. A summary of the calculations is given in Annex
5.4. The economic internal rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 22X. The
economic rate of return is higher than the financial rate of re;urn due to the
elimination of custom duties, the reduction in civil work costs resulting from
the application of a conversion factor of 0.9 to local investment costs, and the
adjustment of the unskilled labor rates using a conversion factor of 0.9. The
resultant ERR is considered conservative and does not take into account consumer
surplus and the benefits that accrue to the economy in general as a result of
improved telecommunications services because these factors are difficult to
quantify. In testing the ERR's sensitivity, the most likely worst case scenarios
and their effects on the ERR were considered, with the following results:
(a) a delay of 12 months in connection of new subscribers resulting in a
delayed revenue stream (ERR - 20X). This case represents an additional
delay of a year in new subscriber connections; the basic case assumes that
installation occurs one year after investment and that commissioning takes
place 6 months after installation;
(b) an increase of 10% in operating costs simultaneous with a 5X increase
in investment costs (ERR - 17X). Combining the above would result in a
fall in the estimated ERR to 16X. Therefore, even under this improbable
worst case scenario, the project would be acceptable.
D. Least Cost Solution
5.9       The proposed project has been planned carefully and represents the
least-cost solution for expanding and modernizing NTC's existing network. Demand
forecasts are considered to be as accvrate as possible under conditions prevalent
in Nepal.   In preparing the project, NTC received special help on Kathmandu
Valley from ITU-funded consultants, and for the rest of the country NTC's
detailed plans were reviewed by a Bank con-ultant and found to be appropriate and
least cost.   A DANIDA consultant has provided considerable assistance in
preparing outside plant plans with an emphasis on minimizing costs. DANIDA has
agreed to provide additional consultants to train and assist NTC with detailed
designs. In a similar way, FINNIDA proposes to engage a consultant to check that
transmission system designs are appropriate and least cost.   An exchange
modernization program has been developed to minimize expansion costs, and NTC is
studying the use of even more recent technological techniques for reducing
switc.hing costs. In view of these complexities, NTC has agreed to engage a
consultant to assist it to prepare the switching equipment contract and ensure
plans are technically appropriate and least cost. The project appropriately
includes the replacement of all existing manual exchanges (four exchanges with



34
a total of 600 lines) but defers the replacement of existing cross-bar exchanges
(two exchanges with 10,000 lines) for the time being, because these exchanges
continue to perform acceptably. These arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.
E. Project Risks
5.10      The  project has been well designed and does not present any
significant technical risks, The potential risks for the project fall into two
categories: (i) delays in procurement and (ii) shortfalls in NTC's institutional
capacity to implement the project. These risks have been recognized and actions
initiated to minimize their impact. As a condition of credit negotiations, NTC
will be required to prepare bid documents for five items needed early in the
project (para. 3.23), and continuation of IDA sponsored institutional development
would be a key component in the proposed project.



VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
6.1       During negotiations HMG agreed to:
a.  SECTOR REFORM CONSULTANCY.  (i)  Not later than December 15,
1992, employ consultants, whose qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment shall be acceptable to IDA, to
review the sectors structure and policies under agreed terms
of reference; (ii) not later than March 31, 1994, based on
the consultant's report, and in consultation with IDA,
establish an appropriate time-bound sector reform program;
and (iii) then implement that reform program. (para. 1.24)
b.  ARREARS.  Implement an action plan satisfactory to IDA for
the prevention of accumulation of arrears from governmental
subscribers for telecommunications services provided by NTC.
(para. 2.15).
c.  ON-LENDING RATE.  On-lend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to
NTC according to a Subsidiary Credit Agreement in US dollars
at a variable rate of interest based on the six-months London
Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread of 3.5%
(para. 3.13).
6.2       During negotiations NTC agreed to:
a.  NTC REORGANIZATION.   (I) Not later than December 15, 1992,
implement a modification to its organizational structure, and
(ii) undertake a review of its personnel structure and
decentralize and delegate appropriate personnel functions to
the various division. by December 31, 1992. (para. 2.4)
b. MANAGEMENT  CONSULTANCY.    Appoint,  by  June  30,  1993,
management consultants acceptable to IDA, for initiating and
implementing a management development program. (para 2.5)
c.  UN-AUDITED AND AUDITED FINANCIAL REPORTS.   (i) furnish to
IDA, by April 15 of each year, unaudited financial statements
for the previous year; and ({i) furnish to IDA, by July 15 of
each year, audited financial statements for the prevlous
year, together with certification and the related report pre-
pared by an acceptable auditor (para. 2.16).
d.  RATE OF RETURN.   Maintain an annual rate of return on
revalued assets of no less than 12X per annum after tax and
before interest (para 4.8).



36
e. TARIFFS. Review before September 30 in each of its fiscal
years whether it would meet the required 12X rate of return,
and if any such review shows that NTC would not meet the
requirement, take all necessary measures to do so, including
adjustments of the structure and level of its tariffs
(para. 4.8).
6.3       CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS ARE:
(a) the signing of a Subsidiary Credit Agreement between HNG and NTC ac-
ceptable to IDA including on-lending arrangements for the proceeds of
the IDA credit to NTC (para. 3.13).
(b) that IDA should have received for its approval bid documents for
switching equipment (para. 3.15).



37
B. Recommendationi
6.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR40.1 million (US$55.0 million equivalent) on IDA standard
terms with a 40 year maturity to His Majesty's Goverrment of Nepal.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1.1
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
ACCESS TO TELEPHONE SERVICE
(July 1991)
,;PA' ptono  ,    I.  Main Working L nes             On-o,
City 1 Aret  1,er  % ofTotal  Number  %:of.Total     dest
UJrban Are
Kathmandu Valley          517        2.68      37,576        61.0              7.26
Biratnagar                176        0.91       3,163         5.1               1.80
Birgunj                   115        0.60        1,954        3.2               1.70
Dharan                     82        0.42        1,053         1.7              1.28
Pokhara                    73        0.38        1,887        3.1              2.58
Janakpur                   70         0.36        986          1.6              1.41
Nepalgunj                  54        0.28        1,284        2.1              2.38
Butwal                     49        0.25         975          1.6              1.99
Hetauda                    45        0.23        1,088         1.8             2.42
Rajbiraj                   43        0.22         566         0.9               1.32
Bharatpur                  32        0.17        1,792        2.9              5.60
Tansen                     20        0.10         476         0.8              2.38
Lahan                       8        0.04         196         0.3              2.45
Others                    253         1.29       8,354        13.6              3.34
oq<tt - U ? i ~1'532                     'W   $0                          41
'1,537  8.00  61,350          4.5 .40
;kl   __ _   _.         1,*783 9      2.00 .              '   0* 5             0 .
19,320      100.00    61,650 00,0                       0 32..



120mDn                                                                AiNEPAL                                                    ANNEX 1.2
a_np                                                FFl3 1UECGIWWWIZIT71E0W         S PROEcrT                                     Page 1 of a
NEPAL 7E.ElCC        NlICA1OSCORPFRA470N(NIC
COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICT AND URBAN CENTER
N    NZ  N                                        N _ I O
ZON           ,    I              |EXCHA E          tqk           TOTA'   , R=~EW              ,.~NE           MAIbE  < ,,'De-ENS_ _ 
3 llsm   lI m**   llam                X 703         240.511           a.422            25GI '    ' ~E D  21"
DITRC                                                               lOI    "   N               
{Damd;~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ N7 DunlIW~  un,0s 50                                              151rLu6
ZTOTAHl¢ZONEPAL                                       147181   _t;1%tO$0   _1.538*05 _7               '178             68`-J
20"                                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  N N            
I  ASTERN REGION                                           3,~480        17T4,5336741.9                                     101%
o Tapejn         Tapeun                                   3.64           124.073
2 Pasnchlhag   _hdl                                        .41           20
3 11a    Urn            Du1aml                     1732NA1                         .                250            218373
4  taps    c      *-a1~    InewdiaS9 t40  s~iO6   N                                                NAn        '.t     ka              0.92
......... 0                                                              5
Z BN badaur*    B     ia                                                16.75,           1000             512              1.02
12 PaluXMuno       ko                                      1.0741        286,e
1 Khtamad                                                                    0
(Damak" )      Damak                                                    13088             S500            151              1.15%
Ohulabarl                                                                    0
5, Snlcjwnnav    IG.adbarl                                 3.480         174.513
6 Ttshsum        TodjaIwn                                   59           12473
7                        7hoipw  BboJp                     18 Jo 259.93.
8 Ohankula       Obankutas      Obanlwl                     891          175.008          9.124            750              381             4.18%
9 Sunmfi                                                                                     ......wYw  x ~      .          '~          Nt.7
(Dhaan")    Chars                                                       82.45D           I'M0            1.053             1.28%
Du                             Si                           NA             250             137
bwwwa~~    ionew                                                    14.633            140              134             0.82%
10   oIlg aba                                                                        NA             50404
Blmtnaar0   SRatnagai                                               15046.000                        3,163             1.80%
(400  ~ ~~RngR0
11 SDoUctIumbu    Samle                                    3.31218.7
12 Okhaldunga   otusldhungp                                 1.074         i85.606
13 Khotan         Dike!                                    1.591          285680m
14 Udaympu        Galghal                                  2.063          215.49I
15 Sapa           RaIblra        Rabibrsi                   13            511.152         42.62             750             656              1.33
Laban                                     ~~~~~~~~~8,488    Boo18                                                  ,
Gtrabs         Girabs                                                      NA             250              952.%



IW5svc.U7Kr                                                                                                                   ANNEX 1.2
COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICT AND URBAN CENTER                                         PageR2o6
FL              $TRIANoT_                                                                                      A       _
It' ~CrzNTRAL RWGON                                        274i           S5I4j84?5  6   ~"                                 13
17 Dda1ba         ClSajkoa                                  2,191         192,132
18 Rachbap        Ramechap                                  1.546         201,000
19 Sindchu Madi  Slndhu77 Madi                              2.491         234.404
20 Dhanusa        Janakpur^      Janakpur                   1.180         651.050          70.448           1.2S9            886              1.40%
21 Mahiott        Jaleswor       Jsaeswor                   1,002         460.698          11,27            260             152              1.31%
22 Sadahl         Malangawa "   Malangawa                   1.259         508.818          22,439            16o             133              0.56%
23 Asuwa(Rasuma) Dhunchh                                    1.544          38.587
24 Dhading        Dhading Booi                              1.92e         310,675                                                                               tX7
25 Sindttupaihok   Chautara                                 2.542         296.443
26 Nuwakdo        Sidur 0*       BlduriTrlnhui)             1.121         258.993           8.053            250             232              2.88%
27 Kanro Palanchoc Dhulikhel    Banepa '4OhuIiie1          1S9B          391,917          17.433            500             47               2.71%
28 Kalhnmandu               ~ ~
Balanibu                                                                     0
8badrawn                                                                     0
Cent  1                                                                   7.000           4.630
Centra It                                                                10.000           9,128
Chabahfl                                                                  5.000           4,171
Chhauni                                                                   "250            2,951
Gongabu                                                                      0
Indrayenl                                                                    0
Kfrtipur                                                                     0
Naxa1                                                                    10.000           9.516
20 8haltapur                               tg'Q  N-.
Bhaklapur                                                                 1,610           1,184
Thimi                                                                        0
30 Laur4i                                                                                                  Z0 d6-
Patan                                                                     7,000           SIM
Thnba                                                                        0
Thecho                                                                       G                                                O0



roisD wRhW                                                                                                                    ANNEX 1.2
COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICT AND URBAN CENTER                                         page 3Of6
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Si makawanpur    Btdmphfl-   Hehauds *-426                                31OX58           44,941          1,400            1.08a             2.42§6
8hwdpur ^-   B Satpur                                                   31,5             2,000           1.762             .6. A
Tandl                                                       MA             25
33 Pakar          Birgunm  -     Hetrun]                    1.353         362.810         1144885          2.240            1.84              1.706%
34 Bara                                                                                                                                        i
Walaya*       Kalalya                                                   19.712            250             239               2t%
Simara                                                      NA             250              1§8
Jitpur                                                      NA               O
Paanipur                                                    NA               0
35 Rautahat       Gaur           Gaur                       1,126         411,537             NA             200             149
O0t%X



AMNEX1.2
COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICT AND URBAN CENTER                                        Page 4 o16
3B Goldch         Ghda                                     3.010         2014,GWl
37 Lamjun         BadSalw                                  1.092         194,68
38 Tanahu         Damauli       Oamauli                    1.54          284,e52                             0
39 KaidW         fkd -           Pddwa                     2.017         281,89a         72Ji2            2,000           i,S8             2.600z
40sy Syu         Sania                                    114           34 "
4tMn                O     O JananA                         2,246          8Q945                                              . 
62 lAus            onwon                                   3,S7           18,472
43 Mysai          8eni                                     2,29          123,452
44 BWa8rV  aRghm                                           1.784         274,1S3
43  PaFbao        uadna                                     494        1234607
48 TauW           Tamhna                                  1.146          3D3,240
47 kghakdhancid Scnha            o                         1.1937        200.400
40 Palpa          Tangi*        Tan1n 16373                              2 9341S2        19,8S8            SW              478             26
42 Kaupvag 
K4idm2a Na21                                               NA 250                         233
Tau4hawa 4Tauhawa                                                      11B004            25              213 17,41
so PwpaLndeh        i          _4                                                              A _
Siddhaff Na46 S7ddha7aaBaawa)                                          49 9M           1.0DO             978             1.95
4 ldwal       Tuawal                                                   48,763 11000                      975             2.00%
Manalapur                                                                   °
51 Nawaiparai    Pasi            Parssi                   2,162          3s3.436                             0                                     I   w



18wn                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNE) 1.2
2r_"           ~~~~~COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICTANSD URBAN CENTER                 Pa 50f 6
62~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.1. 8.- -          ,e ------ 
SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N PM_ MWX                                       % t
SC PkM m        dm                              2,l        19.7
T~~~~                                       ~    ~~~~~~~               ~~              ~ Hl  I9Q I2  I
~~~~~~~~N"  8d mma_8bndt                                            9,43                      21J     .    S 6  Z.m^
Ean B"dxdlw             t4s$*- Nlwunl         2.W         257,46       U,t180       2,000        t,2m
ODB"dp       RAuWh                             Us12      2U122
Ot J^_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2,2M                        124AU2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  1741   t COI>.
Hum         SWbo                             CM16        26.45B
Junhs       J_i                              2"           So.
ell D     ~~Dund_   7,l8                                27.8W0



ANAV( 12
COVERAGE OF SERVICE BY REGION, ZONE, DISTRICT AND URBAN CENTER                                           Page 6o16
.Me<FM,,WEb~~~~~~~~~ -                              :.........   .     .      ................ ,.__ .. . . .........  g   __ _ ,~fQ~   #   _ ~ 00~c
57 Doti
DIpayaI*       Dipayai                                                    5.719             100              77              1.35%
S. Doi                                                                      250              105
68 Kaflai          Dhangadhi'   Ohangadh                     3.235         318.231          13,838           2.000           t16                9.876 7
69 Bapha          Chalnpur                                   3.422         153,017                                                -                          >
70 BauMa          Martadi                                    2.188          92.110                                                                           o
71 Achham          Mungalsaln                                1.680         228.534
75 Dachua          Darchula                                  2,322         111.321
74 9tdI            BaHt                                      1,519         221.037
73 Dadeldhura     Dadoldhua                                  1,638        1107.168
72 Kanchainpur    MahendmaNagar MahendmaNagar                1,610         206.484           80S0            1.100            1.074            10.74%
Noto1:**  indIcates.thuubancentoF,baDiastletlHandoneofthe33Towns
(-'ilnd!catosthii u,ban center i nota Distict 1i10 but it i one of the 33 Towns
4 a



t3UPy.N                                                                      NESPAL                                                               ANNEX 1.3
NEPAL MEEMfWNCA 7ONS CORP"fi rcN  4
TELEPHONE DEMAND AND SUPPLY(1980-1996)
-~~~~~~~~~~~~AU "-n"--n*xn*w*sm-s  -9|-~w>tw*eaw---------- t            =;=iGtl                            ...- * PgD0*|Swd t-$ 2jw-§n
I;Ubmandis               ~~~ ~~~7St  7e      3te-    8s        93         7      ,01b-      t,  - .    1,1t2              1.dE t214    Itwa  1=         t.8
PA"u               t3,ea    t4fllt   lb"7    1B,216       1tk     17,007   17,417     tJ,8   18.0          t@,68     tLg      196       1971    2D.10
: P "    S~~~~~~~~~.7              MOX      7.68    10.78    12ZM      ISA      MOS        3O,W   S.1460        3W       34072    384       4*I27      ,
77700  7770    et1.e2s   9W.4t6 G16 11     al,719.M
tX'i ........ <N.5;~~~~~~.12                   1,u       16.....  S ,4r    21,3  M*786  2i,M   3W5 ,       40.700 4A          4,132    MM        KW
P&M      4.6N     6.0t4fl    G.8"    7,SSO    SANS    165    16,30         20,U9    23,61       24.=O    20.004    31t54     5.:776   4t,ZO
81f6D0     64,900   7zm       79^m      91,W  los9
t     *     l : Kw- innfu        B,2      9,$6S  '- tO    M'-         2D59    26 9133'   .1        3072    47M           MM       569       M166    9.60    $0.7t2       
PAN            S,2      7,265  Q,OOO  9s13 lt,76             M8,et 19,tM3    Zkt7S   28'              2,04    34M        3 6   4ZW         42t4" 
t_~~~~606    446             MM        1_        O-O     -A _      AIN       4- 301
~~~~~4AQ2  e,zo  la,7ti @,7Z  tO@t7    96                        1.760      16,602
1d43    21.           2t,62 ,In          47J,1  6B,2S7  509,Xt .   ,0
P           t~~~~~P           K?L    4Z4        W32      44.S      47.0     S59      44.9       569
VANUV=sa44         OA    °^---  1.12   -tV.77   I                 221   -A             9       3A            SO      M2          S  an42t        4.66
P       "     t~~~~~b        0.03      Qt04     e4       oAs       9.00     0.07     0,09       0.11     e.s3        o.1a      0.16    &Je         -18     02t
:.t  zj$g  KSw_          ~~~~1.10  I.J      1,47      1.S3     221      z76      3.20       373      4.Z         4.W       4.ti2    4.74     627       U3t 
t  ...... *;:§,1         ~~~0,0    OAS      Om       0.................    O.OB  0.09  604  O.t 0.14   O          t5  0.10 0.t6 0.2                    0S2 *as
g_  _  tX_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K



- 49                              ANNEX 1.4
Page I of 6
NEPAL
FMiH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ORGANIZATION SEMINAR
KATHMANDU, NEPAL 17 - 18 JUlNE 1991
I.          The Opening Session of the Seminar included a Welcome Address by Mr.
B. Risal, Minister of Communications and was chaired by Mr. K. P. Rizal,
Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Chairman of NTC's Board.   It also
included Opening Remarks by the World Bank Resident Representative, Mr. Nigel
Rcoberts and Introductory Remarks by Mr. Bjorn Wellenius. In addition to some 15
NTC managers, the Seminar was attended by representatives from the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Industry, and the Planning Commission. The Association of
Industry and Commerce and Hotel Association represented some of NTC's largest
customers.   Also present were representatives from cofinanciers DANIDA and
FINNIDA; JICA sent its excuses for not being able to attend. The presence of
these donor agencies permitted the arrangement of a donors' meeting after the
seminar to discuss with NTC some important issues related to the Fifth Project.
Main Issues resulting trom the Seminar.
II.         Privatization.    The consensus was that privatization of NTC was
impractical at this time because of country rather than sector factors,
particularly relating to access to foreign currency and exchange control. Nepal
is strongly dependent upon donor agencies and soft loans for covering its foreign
currency needs, and not even a profitable entity like NTC could be easily
privatized because it would create the need for HMG to replace these sources of
foreign currency, since NTC produces mainly local currency with a very small
component of net direct foreign currency generation. Even in this environment,
some participants of the Seminar expressed strong views in favor of immediate
privatization of NTC.   However, there was extensive support to the idea of
contracting out (either through NTC subsidiaries or through the private sector)
NTC's non-essential services like civil works construction, cable laying, data
processing and janitorial. In addition, the Seminar attendants supported the
idea of continuing to open new telecommunications services (i.e. enhanced
services, cellular) and provision of terminal equipment to the private sector;
but, it was stated, this have to be done in a competitive environment which could
be created though licensing two competing private entities (if demand allows),
or one competing with NTC.
III.        Cross-subsidization.   The seminar discussed the position held by
HMG/NTC about the social obligations of NTC and the alleged 30X of total
investment aimed at non-profitable rural networks. It was clarified that the
beneficiary of that investment was mainly HMG which is interested in providing
telecommunications services to public administration (police, local authorities),
rather than poor segments of the population which are not main telecommunications
customers in Nepal. However, these services do, by and large, cover operating



-50-                              ANNEX 1.4
Page 2 of 6
expenses. The extend to which there is a cross-subsidy is unclear. If it exist,
this cross-subsidy from local private customers to HMG for its rural
administration needs is a complicated form of taxation, and could be done better
directly.   The remaining purely social obligation is more related with the
provision of public call offices (PCO) in urban and rural areas. To have a more
accurate assessment of these social needs the appraisal mission should propose
to NTC the creation of separate accounting entries for these sub-projects.
IV.         Regulatory Body.  Almost every speaker at the Seminar was in favor
of the need of establishing a strong regulatory body as a way of separating HMG
operating and regulatory functions, and of creating the basic framework for a
future more competitive environment.
V.          Communication Act of 2028 (1972). Although mentioned several times,
no definitive position was reached in relation to the possibility of implementing
the share structure authorized in the Communication Act of 2028 (1972), which
allows for 51% of the shares in HMG hands, 25% in NTC's employees hands and the
remaining 24% for the general piblic. It is unclear at this time whether this
ownership structure, if implemented, would by itself result in significant
performance improvements.  Rather it should be considered in the context of
broader public sector enterprise reforms.
VI.         Partly as a result of discussions at the seminar, two items can be
identified for possible follow-up in the 5th Project:
VII.        Review of International Settlements.  International settlements make
up only 1.7% of NTC's operating revenues.   Much of this traffic is handled
through Cable and Wireless, a private international carrier. A review of all
aspects of NTC's international settlements is proposed for inclusion in the 5th
Project.
VIII.       Review Feasibility of Private Sector provision of Cellular Mobile
Telephony and Paging. Although there is no prospect of privatization of NTC in
the immediate future, private sector provision of cellular mobile telephone
service and paging service may be possible if sufficient demand exists.
Therefore, we would propose to include in the 5th Project a feasibility study for
private provision of these services.   If the study indicates a service is
feasible, the creation of an alternative (albeit high cost) provider of telephony
service could be good for customers and for NTC.
IX.         Tariffs and Arrears.  In informal discussions senior Ministry of
Finance officials mentioned that tariffs adjustments should have to wait one year
until local elections have taken rlace. Especially given that there are only
approximately 50,000 telephone in Nepal, the mission view is that IDA should take
a firm stand in regarding tariffs adjustments (together with payment of arrears)
as a condition for negotiations.



- 51 -                           ANNEX 1.4
Page 3 of 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ORGANIZATION
REGULATORY BODY AND COMPETITION
KATHMANDU, NEPAL
SEMINAR 17 - 18 JUNE 1991
Place and Date
Kathmandu, Nepal Monday 17 and Tuesday 18 June 1991. Two working days.
Organization of the Seminar
The World Bank and Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC)
Participation
Maximum 25 persons, high level officials representing the Ministries of Finance,
Communications, Planning Commission, donor agencies (DANIDA, FINNIDA, JICA), main
users, NTC and the World Bank.
Background and Objectives of the Seminar
The rapid development of NTC during the last years, together with world-wide
transformations in the telecommunications sector and a pro-reform political
climate in Nepal, make the timing appropriate for having an in-depth discussion
and  review  of  current  trends  and  development  possibilities  for  the
telecommunications sector.
The Seminar would help Nepalese Government and NTC to outline a strategy for
dealing with the Telecommunications Sector Reform process and Identify areas for
World Bank support under the proposed 5th Project.
Format
The Seminar will consist of two full days of plenary sessions which will include
presentations and discussions.
Monday 17 June 1991
OPENING SESSION
Clairman: Mr. K. P. Rizal
Secretary, Ministry of Communications
and Chairman of NTC Board



- 52                              ANVEX 1.4
Page 4 of 6
11:30 - 12:30     (A) Welcome Address
Mr. Bhoop Raj Pandey
General Manager, NTC
(B) Opening Remarks
(a) Mr. B. Risal
Minister of Communications
(b) Mr. Nigel Roberts
Resident Representative, World Bank
(C) Introductory Remarks
Mr. BJorn Wellenius
Principal Telecommunications Specialist
The World Bank
12:30 - 13:00           COFFEE BREAK
WORKING SESSION
13:00 - 14:30     Session 1: Current State and Trends of Telecommunications
Policy and Structure.   Recent Experiences in Industrialized
Countries.
Mr. Jeffrey Cunard
Telecommunications Sector Organization and Regulation
Specialist
Debevoise & Plimpton
The session will review the general issues, options and
current trends in telecommunications policy and structure.
These subjects will be introduced through the analysis of
recent developments in industrialized countries.
14:30   15:30     Session 2: Recent Experiences in Developing CountrLes.
Mr. Bjorn Wellenius
Principal Telecommunications Speclalist
The World Bank
This session will review recent policy, structural and
regulatory developments, In particular the introductiou of
elements of competition and increased participation of the
private sector, in several developing countries and will be
followed by a discussion of these issues.
15:30 * 15:45           COFFEE BREAK



-                                A- NNEX 1.4
Page 5 of 6
15:45 - 17:00     Session    3:   Recent    Experiences    in   Mexico    and
Malaysia.
Mr. Peter Smith
Telecommunications Policy Specialist
The World Bank
The session will continue the review of options and current
trends in telecommunications policy and structure through the
analysis of recent changes in Mexico and Malaysia.
Tuesday 18 June 1991
10:00 - 11:30     Session 4: NTC's View of the Telecommunications Sector in
Nepal.
Mr. Bhoop Raj Pandey
NTC's General Manager
This session will examine NTC's view of their future in a
changing Telecommunications Sector structure.  Specifically
will address: investment financing, social obligations of a
commercially oriented entity, potential for attracting private
capital, scope for introduction of some competition, and
separation of ownership control from enterprise management and
regulatory functions.
11:30 - 12:45     Session 5: The Telecommunications Sector in Nepal:  HMG's
Perspective.
Mr. Thakur N. Pant
Joitit Secretary
Hinistry of Finance
This session will examine NTC's current position and its
estimated development during the 5th Project from the view
point of HMG.  In particular It will refer to possible reforma
affecting State owned public utilities, like implementation of
share-ownership allowed in the Communications Act, and HMG's
view  on  the  role  of  Government  in  this  changing
Telecommunications Sector environment.
12:45 - 13:15           COFFEE  BREAK



- 54 -                             ANNEX 1.4
Page 6 of 6
13:15 - 14:00      Session 6: The Telecommunications Sector in Nepal: HNG - NTC
relationship.
Mr. Alberto Cruzat
Financial Analyst
The World Bank
This session will highlight the constraints in the HMG-NTC
relationship.
14:00 - 15:15      Session 7: Summary Discussion and Conclusions
Moderator:
Mr. Bjorn Wellenius
Principal Telecommunications Specialist
The World Bank
15:15 - 16:00      Towards an Action Plan
Mr. Alberto Cruzat
Financial Analyst
The World Bank



ANNEX 1.5
-55-                               Page I of 3
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUN.ICATION CORPORATION (NTC)
TELECOMMCATIONS SECTOR STRUCTURE CONSULTANTCY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
General:
I.    The current telecommunications sector structure in Nepal correspond to the
classical self-regulated state-owned monopoly. This type of structure had serve
well in the development of the telecommunications sector in many European
countries and until recently was prevalent in most Asian countries. However,
during the last years even the most traditional European PTTs have began a reform
process to adapt their structures to the new competitive and interconnected
environment. This change results from new technologies which offer alternatives
to the traditional cable network, allowing for overlay networks and economic
provision of parallel facilities for a variety of new services. Although the
development of the sector is still in his infancy in Nepal, some of these new
alternatives may affect even that small market, and the effect of the possible
changes could be catastrophic for a structure highly dependent in his revenues
of services such as international telephony where a handful of customers
generates a high percentage of total revenues.   As discussed in the recent
seminar on sector reform, the problem is not how to isolate Nepal from the forces
generating the current reform process, but how to be best prepared for absorbing
the inevitable reforms.
Objective:
II.   The objective is to study, with the assistance of a consultant, alternative
sector structures, considering different degrees of private participation, the
required level of regulation and regulatory approach, the effects on NTC's
position as recipient of foreign grants and soft loans, the impact on NTC's
staff, the effect on transfers to HMG in the form of dividends and other
contributions, the impact in the provision of social services (rural and remote
locations, and public call offices), and the impact on the availability of varied
modern serviees.
Scope of Work:
Task A.     The consultant will identify, describe and assess, inter alia, the
following scenarios:
1 -   implementation of part private ownership clause contained in the
Communications Act 2028. This case requires special attention to
the effect on NTC's position as receptor of grants from DANIDA,
FINNIDA and JICA, and to the impact on total transfers to HMG and
required regulatory structure.



ANNEX 1.5
- 56 -                       Page2of3
2 -  keeping NTC in its current position as an HMG owned corporation, but
allowing private provision of enhanced or value added services:
paging, cellular, resale of leased lines to business customers.
This case requires special attention to the effect on NTC's
financial position, necessary regulatory approach, impact on total
transfers to HNG, provision of social services.
3 -   full privatization of NTC, with possible participation of several
private competitors.
Task B.     The consultant will assess each of the scenarios in respect of the
following criteria:
a -   required level of regulation, its structure and availability of
personnel,
b -  HMG's objectives for the provision of services to rural and remote
areas and urban public call offices,
c *  effect on reception of grants and soft loans, and
d * - effect on total transfers from the sector to HMG.
Task C.     The consultant will also study the followlng matters which would be
present in any of the analyzed scenarios:
1 *  Set up of a tariff regulatory mechanism in HMG, with provision for
determining interconnection policies in case of having more than one
operating entity.
2 -  Dividend policy to be applied while HMG owns whole or part of NTC
together with policy for designation of NTC's Board members and
their functLons.
Contraet and length of Consultancy:
III. The consultant would be contracted by HMG for a period of six months.
Timing:
IV.   The consultant would be required to begin work not later than six months
after Board approval of the Fifth Credit (estimated date: September 1992).



ANNEX 1.5
Page3 of3
Reportng:
V.    The consultant will be required to report to HMG and IDA with copies to
NTC. The following reports will be required:
A.    An initial report after two months and regular monthly reports
thereafter.
B.    A comprehensive draft report at the end of the fourth month with
summary   of   analyzed   alternative   scenarios   and   specific
recommendation. This report will be presented to and discussed in
an ad hoc torum with HHG, IDA and NTC representatives.
C.    Final report not later than a month after the forum, which will
propose specific actions, such as engagement of other consultants
for preparation of specific legislation, and training of staff
required for regulatory body.   The report also should include a
reform Implementation program with Gantt charts and critical path
steps.



NEPAL                                                                  ANNEXJ 1
*   .                                                     FiFIELECCI WUNICA7NS PROJECT                                                            Page 1012
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
ORGANIZATION CHARY - ExdsUng
Ministry of Communications
I       Board of Directors     I
|  Mr. Bhoop Raj Panday |
U'
DGIU Rnancel &                                    06131    en                                     Da ttG^5    atoons
Adminltlonw                              Pbanlndg QDowt*                                          and MtdUla
MFl. Ramesh Nepal]                              lSr. e.s. Masr. V. S.  Bsakea
-Finanspartment                 -Swvthing Planning         -Maeri Management                        -O&M Depatment
Depment                              -Long Diance
-Human Rrnourcs               -Transmiss   Pnning 
LW                   oiD pnmetgOepL                                                  4Pnct                                 Depautmen
Sectlen                                                 -Cable Nehtork             lmp*m.ntaon                          -ntemaornl Syan
-usines"&Genea                     Plannin Dept                Depamen                           -MuOia nagme "nt&
AdmrnntaonDopL                                                                                       RepairCenter
-Computer and Data       -Exchange Pojct Dept
4iandd  Mnlagment                    mmunkleatins                                                    -Rinal Olles
& Panning DepL                    Depatnt                  -Trainin Centr                                ncwar
_   mS                                                                                                  d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ktmnu
Audftor                                                                                                                       1tBrunj
Bhsb*hawa43utwat
Nepa4unl
Ncte: NTC pans to spit this dhivon Into the to  _ia  shwn, each headed by Itsown DGM.                   Ohangadlid
The eft DMslon wAl be Planning. l  dght Diviion will be Development



NEPAL                                                                  ANNEX21
FFTH TELECOMUNICAWONS PROJECT                                                            Pag 2of2
NEPAL TELECOMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NMC
ORGANIZATION CHART - Under Implementation
lMlnisry of Cornmun.callons
-Board of Directors
General Manger
Mr. Shoop Rai Pandwey
}  OMRUFlnnc&                      DamOI                           DaM           l            l       0a1Sak0                          c
AdmLibaon                     Pb2nnk                        Deveknet                              and Mbinbn
Mir.Rr_h Nem                  WI.G.G.Bor                          Mr.                       _     MfJV.8.B
4inance Departmnt           -Gaitino Panning                 -Material Langmt                       -O&U DePaitment
Depa_Men                             -Lon Difane
-Human RFeaurce           -Tianunleon Plnning                                                         MahInr
Legal                O     HIopen rDept.                                          -Trnuinlsulon                            Depazient
Secton                                             -cable Nohor                                                         -IntenatIonal Sytatm
-aualneus&Qnerad PZlagDp                                       -Switching                        -Quality Managme&
AdmindmronDepL                                                                                       Repa* Cent
-Computerand0Dta                 -Cable Network
-nanlManagemen                 Comunklations                                                         -Reionaloffee
& PlannD                     Depanent                           Civi                                 81rgr
interal                                                                                                                     Katumandu
Adaidtor                                                                           -Dewlopfent                                Biruni
-Trainng Center                           Npagunj                   X
, , .dbl



- 61 -                            ANNEX 2.2
Page I of 2
NEPAL
lFI   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMlNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
General.
1.        Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC) is a government-owned
corporation responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of
telecommunications infrastructure in Nepal. The corporation employs about
3,500 staff and as of July 1991 had about 61,000 working telephone lines. NTC
is about to undertake a further expansion of its network and facilities with
the objective of increasing the working lines to about 120,000 by 1996. This
Fifth Telecommunications Project will be funded in part by the World Bank
Group's International Development Association. NTC will undertake a variety
of institutional development programs as a part of that project. One such
program will be to develop and improve its managerial skills; specifically
high level and middle level management. NTC will engage a consultant, under
these terms of reference, to assist with this task.
2.        Oblectives.  The objective of this consultancy is to identify NTC's
major constraints to effective management. Then, through a carefully designed
program, supervise and lead NTC's management through a series of self-
initiated steps designed to remove constraints and improve overall management
performance.
SgoDe of  or.
3.        Task A.  The consultants will familiarize themselves with NTC, its
staff, operations and management and identify the major procedural, cultural,
organizational and skill level constraints to effective management.
4.        Task-B.  The consultants will then develop, in conjunction with
selected high level management and with the close involvement of the General
Manager, a management education and change program designed to significantly
improve NTC's managerial performance. That change program will involve all of
the key management staff within NTC. Through the program the consultants will
facilitate NTC's evaluation of its own performance, help staff identify key
management and performance constraints, and then assist NTC management in
developing its own program of management change actions. The change program
will be designed to extend over a period of one to two years. This gradual
approach to a change program will be necessary because
a)    many of the management problems result from embedded cultural
and work values which will take time to modify;
b)     many inefficient practices are the result of inappropriate
procedures which will need to be changed;



- 62 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 2
c)    NTC's management is already heavily committed to other
development activities; and
d)     the change evaluation and practices process should form a
routine part of good management and should continue after the
consultant leaves.
5.        Task C.  In conjunction with the reform program, the consultant
will design and present a variety of management training courses and workshops
through which NTC's managers would be able to learn and practice effective
management tecnniques and strengthen their interpersonal skills.  The
consultant will also work with NTC to identify a local academic institution or
management company properly qualified to run similar management training
programs in the future. The consultant will work with the selected body to
jointly develop a training program to meet NTC's needs.
Local Consultant,
6.        The foreign consultant will be required to engage a local Nepalese
firm as a partner in the consultancy. The objective would be (a) for the
local consultant to bring into the partnership an intimate understanding of
local culture which would be taken into account in the design of the change
program, (b) to train and develop the local consultant in modern management
change practices that could be used effectively in Nepal, and (c) make
available a skilled local consultant to closely monitor t1TC's progress,
provide regular support and follow through when the foreign consultant is
absent.
Reports
7.        The foreign consultant would be required to prepare an initial
diagnostic report and draft action program after a period of one month. The
consultant would present his/her recommendations to the General Manager and
his selected support team. After their review of that program, the consultant
would take into account NTC's comments and finalize the development program.
Thereafter, the consultant, in conjunction with his local consultant
counterpart, would prepare monthly reports summarizing progress of the
program.
Length of Consultancv
8.        An initial period of 4 to 5 months is recommended for initiating
the program and undertaking the initial training. Thereafter the consultant
would visit the country for 3 or 4 weeks every three months or so to ensure
the program maintains its momentum over the 12 to 18 month period.



-  63  -
AWrn.*Ma                                                                                      ANNEX2.3
NEPAL
RFI7H TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECr
NEPAL 7ELECOMMUNICA77ONS CORPORA77ON (NTC)
A. EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY
Managementand
adminle(aon               10        12          14         17         22        22
Engineer                  88        101         127        125        132       150
Teohnloans                592       6           663        674        723       7eo
Operation                 670       o11         671        ee1        761       758
Other                   1,202      1,300       1.635     1,671      1.788      1,706
C. EMPLOYEES BY REGION (AS OF JULY 15, 1990)
... ........~4Wp 5
Managementand
admlnloatlon              16         2            1         1                                      22
.gln.r                    go         26          10          a          a        10                IS.
Toohnlolans               ISO       911         103         as         112       124               701
Opemlon                    73       262         124        103         go        101               768
Other                     340       M3          2211        "         201       100               I'm0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



--                                                                                              ANNEX24
NEPAL
RPM T&EXMMUNI7IONS PROJECT
NEPAL EECOA#MUNIcAT70AS CORP OR017T
CONSTRUCTION & OPEhIATIONAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
1. Installed Exchange Capacity -             76         78        82        94       112       130       139
year-end equipped lines 000)
2  WoddngUnes- yearend('009)                 62         65        73        80        92       106        116
3  Stafllo000WouwdngUnes                     65         62        59        55        50        47        46
4. AvwageFaultsll00UnesMonlh                 16         15        14        13        12        11         10
5. %FaultySees Restored                                    .                                        
Within48houus                           NA          so        91        92         93        94        95
6. Callompletion Rate(%                     NA.        50         52        54        56        So        59
7. GrossRevenues(NRaBillion)                8W        927      1,394     1.591      1,655     2,173     2,384
. DOebtSeniceCwmeage Ratio                   1.2       1.1       1.5       1.7       2.0        22        2.3
9. DebtEqulty                                          42%       369 4A              52%       57%        60Wj
10. Rate ot Ratum on                         1         15%       23%       24%       21%       16%       12m9
Reaued Assets
11. Internal Cash Genemon Ratio             2 -         7%       45%      29%       26%       36%       49%
Notes:
1. WodIng Unes - Exchange lines In service
:7 Call Completion Rate Is a measure of the % of time calls are sccessfully made after the subscrdber lifts the handset.
Unsuccessful calls Include Incompletion of dialling, do not answer, network congestion and technical failure
3. tems 4,5 & 6 are annual averages of monthly resuts Others are year end values.
4. Date of year-end: July15



NEPAL                                                                           ANNEX 3.1
RFTH TELECOMMUNICA77ONS PROJECT                                                                      Pags e of 5
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICA77ONS CORPOR477ON(NTC)
TELEPHONE EXPANSION PROGRAMME
A -TELEPHONE EXCHANGES PROGRAMME
.   TAIEJNSR   TfPLEJUN3            76       1 t68     t6       2C4                          160                                                 150        ?R       160
PAHCHTK1    PtDDII                 112       lea       ldlb      269                          IbD                                                1SD        ?R       1ED
JIWAP     EMDJU               21        700       700    1.425          E    1,oW                    UM3468                                             E     1,0
SMAMOD          27S       so3 61               956                         MD               Me               SD                         ECS       SOY
DAMAK 2M1                   456       4         56  5     ECS      S0o                   UM346S                                           E-CS      600
CHLXASM             241       478       476       7986500                                       Me               600                        ECS      600
HAWCTHAA    DW1 UTA    3           12       407      718       236                           10 E1 760                                                    E        1I
JOflAP      IITHADAR           25D    W0 700        070     7.14          E    .00       1,D                                                 1.           E      .4000
XB   SAWD                                                                       XB    3.
PANGM               193       40S       40f       720                         2&D 600                                                       ECE     260
OWJLHARW             1,6 5    476       46        78        a500                          3       ,       f        OD                       ECS       600o
1,44 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~^   .':6 %076%" 4,98                 '-65,                     %,,25 'o                            ;399:'.oB;  b
DUHA 1 IAM                4   279       279      412.660    ECS      250                                                                    ECS       250
UMRWA               300  E     03  5    03 e    7.70 :E    3.0               1503                                               1. 4.500  .         4.600.     5
ffAHAR              318       52B       529       89l       EO     S00                                                                      Et:       6D0
SAMI    PAJBIRIJ               213        60D       852    1,78          E                250 76E                                                                720
SUN        UAHAN               307       62D      s26       82D       ECS      500                                                                    ECS       D00
SW            ~~~ ~~136  3W        3DD      337        ECE     250                                                                     EE       25D
OHAUSM       JAHAL                943      1.7ao     2,147    3,M5         SA    1,000      1, *                                      1,00                 Sh    2p
SAR   i : 9Q>                              .
AHOTTAN   JALESDNA                 113      272        279      413        CSA     250                                                                    2C0 280
SARLAIG    MALMMM ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     26          OMW(22232502EC                                             26
SHANAFI             318       528       528       891                      "^,os~'                      S                       .'oo   r________ _ _
~006  10,575  11,991 * 19,930  ' %ti ________________                           _______     ______



ANNEX 3. 1
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES PROGRAMME                                                                                Page 2of5
OISIAOT  ~~~XO~1AI4G~~          OEMA1Q FOWIC.AUT                                                                          W  csfiJ~    NrQo iV400
.,   KYa                                                a *  .'                               AI)     9. .4            IJ  ,                .       ..:  ,
SA 8      MALAA               2Z0        3S4       347       45        SMR      250                                                                       SAR       250
SURA                                                          SMA      2i0                                                                       SAR       250
CQEWA       EBIARmPIJR          1,7U       3.016     8.016    4.471          E    20          780              ill                7                                   27
TAIB                 100        20        250       340       EM       280                       UM218                                           ECE       280
IMAW&AJ          SEAD                 GM        *,5RI     1,98       511      SBAR    1,400        370-                                370                        SAR      1,710
PARSA    BhIGMN               1.40      3.170      3.98     8045         BrA  2.260       1.21                               w128                           BA      *A48
§MffAMTY                           Igo~ j  100  210     210       800      MIS. *      0 :        ..'      ;      ..x.                  >M(,),
240                                         240                BR        2U0
GII=APR         HKTAPUM            2,107     3,07       3,607    4.S44        SA    1,0        1,640          UM3416                                1,640        SA      3.0
SAR      20                         F140                                          BAR       210
TlD go                           s 1t    1.1      2.9A                          1.0               P140           F.U0 0                   ?              I.'m0
KAITIUANM       SAUM                 Ws5      1l        1,393    2.40                           1,500                                       1,500                  7     t600                   J
FZtl40
FAIUPWLS             1S8        7         75 7M5   .190                          760               F34                        70                   ?       75 0
CE8IW.LI           19011      M $,42   25,ti    31.143         XB   7.00D                                                                        X)    7?00
CENnVu                                                                         13.000      F140.P2X140              5o000   4,000   4,000          7    M3oog
CENTRAL6       (-210)       (2         23)                     BA   10.000                      F3X140                                           AS  10,00
CHABAIL             4.=5      7M         7.50    10,210        sA    4,000      7.0w        F34.F2140       20oo            aoo0    3OD0          SE    11.000
(.2100)                                        AR    1,0D0                                                                       SMR     10o0
CHIAUIa             3.54      77n       7.s7     10.518        BA    =i                '.0
M       SAM        1.418                                  D.00      a       F140           ae0o                               2    2A0D
(419)     (1
famW                 < 414     am         6m       .4                            780              U34                         780                  2       78D
UNIWUR               408        ?5        786     1.282                          780        F34.F140                                   780         2       780
KAXAL              9t29      14U06l    14.04     17.M0         BA   1.00U,    4.00         F14o.PX4       a     e     0D   200                    SE    14,00
-10o0       (Lim")                                                              FZX140
PATAN    PATAN                4,160    11.931    1 l    W4.65            SA   7?.0        4.00        DOENDDT   2,0                              200        SE    lQ0
THARA                WS         68        67       .42                           70                P34                                780          2       780
TIECD                602      1.053      1.03     1.5#5   _         _           t100               F34                      1.000                  2     1.000
.VAL5.or^          4.7   - .'._,101 , 6i'%.78    't :C.-9           4li.': .464  S''t.s$'   .      N ;N --; -#0O    S00  \1^0         .     -s'     4.0 0s
KAVIE    A1SA        875      9.000     2.098    3.50         SM       800                                            .                          SM        800
1.000                      1000                   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~2 1,000
MI WO        tRSI                  SD t      180       140   :-            SM       21b                                                                       MAR       2M0
4N



nEaMWiO                                                                                                                        ANNEX & I
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES PROGRAMME                                                          Page 3o5
ZO,E:                                         .., .,                     N                  N'   ~        '~' ',, ¾'. > ,9e ,,Pv,\: '.,, ; . .... 
N 0,~~~~N
.. 33 . OKHAPA         ts#2    3.814    4.   Sx           SA                       ½N             IU8E
TUWINAM   AAU          OI            N      2   U?V           26D                             2so               8    ER              25v
OUFM     GDK              to               230    313                     160                                        ISO   751    IS
. rAN                           2      212  '          42                      ISO                                       ISO 'V  '7 '   ">  s     -    a  ".
ua          ocu1#         ua        3s7     Z7s                            16D                                        ISO      M      t6D
KAPi$=    W AR               2ZS     Wsi      S4 610 50                                        SAR 20sE   4,D0
TATUHD M         210    G0       6U4    71       SAR            25D *          U              26D                  80       10             I
oaVS W       GARM             1 so             so     aD                      2i5                                i20             UR      250            0
VMLSF   TVAtI           413      Sln  f          41                     1                                          1CSm            1MD t
_  ~~~EAWUOU             RII    I=       1.9W    Z2        Slt  *p    1.00> *          mobo                                  $A   ZOO*
OUTVVL           gm  aZ        a zm      As      SAR ii',,\,,'\.>.,°,.$'
WANlMM           742    1.32 l.Si 2          ,MO-                                                       . 6Q00"   N N
GUA M   T/lU09Ai        11       1W      tnSO :JOO                       lS                                                1       ISO
KFWZTU   LOM ZA                  mlS   OS    l60        GAB E   ao                                                         ECA     2D
T    L*W        210       m       m8   7.t       EAB:S  690                     M5                                 EGSB   6100
nM  TREPB               MO       5        i      32        E   20o0      Wc aO O                                             E    so.
BAMVA%  GLV.&%%  m  MO   SW     ameeoc                                             nm                       7V   amD
9AWLAFTI        Vt    t172    1.7U0  2$11                       600 so                                             El:S 1...
GEESE   Tfl    I           S  12D 5       9tO     00                     1t0                                    N '                 1O60lS
I    ________  ||              0      lAS     7,00   1.;7  '. r       d0     4,0                               'A *0  \41 »S t*iu       zu3E- CN



ANNEX  1I
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES PROGRAMME                                                               Page 4 0f5
ZOM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GPP  OP1~                  AomoE OF.VPJf                     'p     ie     s       Viwq.
u ~ m r  . x wO F  'P   P  p                     f iid PG      . -.                         Ti> E . 0i  t N  ..
~~~~~~~~~i                     IN S  .(3   '.'          '' "  "' r  ;
12Efl       -
OMfl    AVAL               D      45       4....   .  
U8 2s                                 ElE     250
..   .                30D                   ~~~~~~~~~ECS  300
AUS   c~"                                           2SD  I,    ,,s  2  E    02                                                        s 
M14c)wefUF      W.AI4GA        1.0109   2,5     2 ws    4.m        ECS   1,100     SQO                             a    8DO       0      ECW   Zaax
CA1ELHUMA   GADEtHLA             41      a s      6       108                     1S                                           I50      ?R      ISO
3A  TAS6     aAZA          10        25                                       ISO                                          150      ?1i    150
1AHLA    DWRt.ZA                      225       225    367                      150                                          1SO      7A      160
_.=          3      3.105   4.96        0    .10w    1 O° 4                      .    0  ":o.o s>.45 >460 ,
TCTiAL(                        2       122.W2   1==    81 .'-         . ' 7.200 .                              . 1....  .'j 4354M  -
3aL               67.100   6t1#4                   0.250  11.110  100=00  17.640        121 81
CF4SSEm           10.000      0                       0      0      0      0             1D.000
MA_ UA.             Gm  :5':)                         0   (240)  (J60)      0                a
EXHA4GE1PTVIVSS1tIS~U
Sk SvSot 12AUCVERSON PAM:T                              M&  UIOWAVESYSTEM OMBS
/U7.          amS                      SAM SY061 12AUCJVER $0NEMtlUNWT   UNri               UM384f68  Ut'GRPAEEX1N34MIWSUICROWAVESVSTEM
1899        0047JU0                                                                                   TO O UShS
I=     t      98AN2                    S5  SE:I T26E.0 VERS0 PARBEN
T1193        1504                      SER stora 12ac V ,EIJM FOTEUNIT                           UK: REIlEE6ING MICROWAIVESYST
105          C!illG                      E: SYSIEME-lOB PJA1f                               VMUX(2134: ODITAL MULTPI281STO 84MB) EQUIPMENT
ECS SYSTEMC-IO. SEMOTEUNJCS
EC  SStMEM E-WiL9REYOTE UNITCNE                         F140D  14OUMS     S FllE SYSTEM
7: SYSTEMO TETENI3ER
J________                       IR~~~~~~~~7  WRIALEXC)ANGE                                                                                          9t



ANNEta 1
;anep31.vtl                                                                                           Pages of5
MU CWFTEMMON             -XTNUADIMUVAUIEV      3.MTMOEAL                              nW^o
LE-S;'OFNEPAL         MD( PA.Uw7m    uEC TNA                                   120%000
AJCct;NDIT                                       t9SSES             CAMIEOWC1s          -THIIANDlVMl&        4W
.                                                R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FES1'OMHPAL  mD
1PU1ERIUSPWIEF  .                                 1TSFTES
TOTAL               701
-~ ~~~~~~~ ,.
IAU       `E      ,                                                OUTSDEVAEU
t. OIPT  LQS   76 (1X- W~~. J 1X4IIUI =t2XI40USIS              1. NEWRAW4SMIsON20M
TG7LfSJEK  90(W-   A2S1%1F4A2 a :oe                           4 SVmull uxo usi 2 S~EttS ZlXeMWs 
TOTALHUW3EROF 2Wi(WPDEz-424                                    TOTAWL UUER8OFaIX(GROUP ENOU,-
2. SMlPBP.ROO.C le.9S S2 UPGRADING ('"Pt2GNZtMtUNK(S)
TOTALmBUMSMF2SrW 0UfG6IPEN*-1tO
69GZ. 2J04M813-1 VSVS7
v * Oe?EWU    llVVELNU1X08Ia  70)WS&1XIX I8JM SYISTEMS         2GeHZ ZXIUI-1 SYSTEM
TOTALNLUMBER MGS4B1ROLIPENDS)'                                 TOTAL NUMMEMOMa2MBX (GROUP 8S9)-12
4. F63EXTNUM                                                   3MEXTExNS        IAI
4HOTAL#JUNWF 2M=!(OWPENDS)-4
ST. N    llURWILTOTALNLU4Oi2FBIWROUPEBN)-790
TOTAL RFIBAI5OP2M3=(GRIPEHD3)-a6
lWALtGF2W5"0W E?lG M                                      NAIA11OILA?D 1OEF AV  TW
UNDERV ASE,                                       t. OP1t:ALIBEROFORhNTEWNAT1NUAt lX140MBIS2 SY US
21  WCAPACIIY-3SVSTES.TOTAL UBS$ O                     TOTALNWBEMOF2MBfS(RUP0NWS)-12
2. MATMW3.SLJS(GH
Ri§ULVWASEHVMC                                 WoXs-esSTEMY
2X1OUSI$.-i SYSYBIM
CiAJD-6SYSiSELMTOTAL 24C                            TOTAL: UMOER OF 21WS (GROUP E1S)-04
3. EMCOFOW EXTENSIO IMw
VKTAThANMIO1ST61UM                             OIR SYSTEMS
2 svsY 3                                 4. SBA=N H  WClRCUfEXTENCSS1ON
TOTAL NUMBMOROF 2MWSI (GROUP ENDS)-20



73                           ANNEX 3.2
Page I of 4
NEPAL
FIF)H TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORAT7ON (NTC)
NTC'S INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
1.    As a result of the IDA funded Bell Canada International Management
Consultancy, NTC implemented a dynamic system for monitoring progress in its
Institutional Development Plan (IDP). Under this system the list of specific
institutional development projects is variable: finalized projects are taken out
of the monitoring list, and new projects are entered into the it. As an example
the list as of December 1990, included: (1) Tariffs, (2) Outside Plant, (3)
Switching Network Management, (4) Material Management, (5) Billing and
Accounting, (6) Training, (7) Human Resource Management and Planning, (8)
Standardization of Procedures, (9) Computer Systems Development, and (10)
Customer Relations. As of November 1991, the projects Tariffs and Billing System
were finalized and taken out of the list; however, during project preparation new
projects were suggested to NTC, which will form part of its IDP.
2.    The following new IDP projects have been discussed with NTC and will be
part of its IDP during the proposed project implementation:
a.    Corporate Data Base, this project is jointly funded by FINNIDA.
b.    Set of Actions aimed to avoid generation of HMG4's arrears.
C.    Enhancement of NTC's Management Skills
d.    Review of InternatLonal Settlements.
e.    Study of Telegram Service.
f.    Establishment of Policies for the Private Provision of PCOs.
3.    The first three now IDP projocts are In a more advanced stage and are
described in more dotail as follows:
Corporate Data Base.
4.    Following the completion of the Billing System under tho Fourth Tolecommun-
Ications project, NTC has continued to dovolop and refino its various computer
based systems (Billing, Ledger, Sales, Enquiry, and MCC) and is ready to begln
Integrating a number of them Into a Corporate Data Base (CDB) arrangement. It Is
proposed that FINNIDA would provido technical assistanco under the Fifth Project
to guide NTC in this noxt step. The following arrangemonts aro proposed:



-74                              A NNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 4
i.    FINNIDA would include a systems specialist in their project preparation
teaml which has yet to visit Nepal. This expert would work with NTC to
define the broad objectives, development steps and ciming for the CDB
project. The expert would also identify any actions required to be
completed by NTC before proceeding with the next step.
it.   Following the signing of the Project Agreement between HMG and Finland, a
systems specialist (possibly the same as above) and a software/project
management specialist would visit Nepal to develop with NTC a detailed
project specification and development plan.
iii.  The software/project management specialist woulJ then remain in Nepal to
guide NTC staff in developing the defined system. Occasionally, highly
specialized consultants may need to be sent to Nepal for short periods of
time to help solve particularly complex problems. The systems specialist
would be required to visit NTC at regular intervals to review project
progress and participate in any major changes to the agreed specification
that are found necessary.
iv.   Hardware for this project component will be financed by IDA.
Arrears.
During discussions with HMG/NTC the following actions aimed to clarify the
arrears situation and to avoid the creation of new arrears were agreed:
i.    Designation of Telephone Services Coordinators by Ministry and Department:
considering that each Department or Service in HMG has a budgetary
allocation explicitly lntended for telephone service, but that this
budgetary allocation is not rigid, permitting to pay other services or
goods with these funds or using more of NTC's services than the budgetary
allocation, there was consensus in the need to establish a direct contact
between each Ministry/Service or Department and NTC. This clo-er contact
-will be instrumented through the Telephone Services Coordinator in each
Ministry, the designation of these coordinators was requested by the
mission to the Minister of Communications and the Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and is discussed in the following paragraph.
Li.   Restriction In the Acceas to Tolephone Service according to Needs and as
a Penalty: 11MG telephones which sorvices exceed the budgetary allocation
or where services are not paid, even having the budgetary allocation, will
be restricted in service access as follows: (a) first, ISD service will
be disconnectod, (b) second, STD service will be disconnected, and (c)
third, all services will be disconnected. NTC will propose a detailed
procedure to Ministries of Finance and Communications, with copy to IDA,
'Pio project preparation team would prepare the project document needed by FINNIDA for processing the proposed
grant for the Fifth Telecommunications Project.



- 75 -                           ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 4
not later than August 30,.1991. This detailed procedure will include the
designation of Telephone Coordinators by Ministry/ Department or Service
at 2 different levels: one higher level coordinator will be the main
contact with NTC for requesting new telephones or services, Telephone
Services Coordinators at the exchange level will review and discuss with
NTC the specific budgetary allocation for that unit and decide on the
access (ISD,STD) to be granted to each phone.
iii.  The mission agreed with NTC the implementation of a new project: Updating
of HMG's Services Data. This project is beginning with the introduction
in the data base for the Billing and Ledger systems of the manually
recorded data presented to HMG in March 1991 containing additional
information on the specific Department or Service in HMG where each
telephone is installed. Once this first phase is completed, the computer
print-outs will be sent to the exchanges by the Project Task Manager (the
General Managet designated Mr. S. Poudyal for this function). The Task
Manager will check the information with the staff of the respective
exchanges and then will contact the Telephone Services Coordinator in each
Ministry/ Department or Service to verify the accuracy of the data and
propose the specific restrictions in relation to access to service (ISD,
STD) to be applied to each telephone, according to the level of
outstanding arrears.
iv.   Ledger System Project: The implementation of the Ledger System Project,
which is crucial for providing detailed information on HMG acrears,
requires more PCs and training of staff of the outside valley exchanges.
The mislsion agreod with NTC that the Ledger System project will be
implemented in all outside valley exchanges of more than 1,000 lines
(approximately 17 exchanges), and that some 5 to 8 PCs will be immediately
procured locally for this purpose. The mission also agreed with NTC on
the procurement of heavy duty printers to replace the three DFX-5000
printers which are not suitable for the heavy duty billing system work.
Enhancement of NTC's Management Skills:
5.    Telecommunications is of growing importance to Nepal; the new political
environment in tho' country has placed a greater emphasis on democracy and
personal needs; and telecommunications technology is rapidly changing. In view
of these factors, NTC has recognized that it must cultivate improved management
skills and style in order to become an organization that is more adaptable to
change, has greater internal coordination and improved information flows, and is
more sensitivity to staff needs. Any changes should be aimed at developing a
greater awareness and concern for staff while at the same time introducing
lasting changes to management and work habits that would bring about a
significant Improvement in NTC's performance.
6.    To initiate this change process, NTC proposed that they should first learn
about similar changes being introduced by other Telecommunications corporations
throughout the world. It was agreed, and strongly supported by IDA, that a group
of NTC staff visit a number of countries where these change processes are under



ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 4
way.   The group would comprise a variety of NTC managers with functionally
diverse responsibilities (eg engineering, operations, administration etc).
7.    Countries with telecommunications corporations known to be deeply involved
in introducing a change in management style, and therefore appropriate for NTC
to visit, include Canada and Australia. IDA agreed to inform NTC of any other
countries that may be appropriate to visit.



Telecou.nications V Project
Project Cost by vear
Totals Including Contingencies                             Totals Including Contingencies
NRa (million)                                               Ust (million)
........ ............... . o.......................................................................   .........................................................
92193  93194  94195  9516  96/97  97n98   Total          92193  93194  94/95  95/96  96197  97/98  Total
1. IHESTIENT COSTS
.................... 
A. EquIpwnt
1. Telephonm Exchanges          72.9  307.7  458.0  302.4  115.8    8.7  1265.5            1.7    7.3   10.9    7.2    2.8    0.2   30.1
2. Trnmission Equl.pnt          79.1  279.2  505.3  197.6   88.2   11.9  1161.2            1.9    6.6   12.0    4.7    2.1    0.3   27.6
3. Outside Plant               115.2  315.2  305.7  280.4  160.3   68.8  1245.6            2.7    7.S    7.3    6.7    3.8    1.6   29.7
4. Customr Premises Equip.       4.2   23.6   34.1   33.6   16.3    0.5  112.3             0.1    0.6    0.8    0.8    0.4    0.0    2.7
S. Operstions & Training         0.0    0.0    0.0   19.3   20.1    8.9   56.3             0.0    0.0    0.2    0.5    0.5    0.2    1.3
6. Power. Vehicles a Hmic       10.8   33.4   58.3   55.2    5.0    0.0  162.7             0.3    0.8    1.4    1.3    0.1    0.0    3.9
......... .................    ................. ............................. .............................................................,000
Sib-Total                         282.2  959.1  1369.4  388.5  405.7   98.8 4003.6           6.7   22.8   32.6   21.2    9.7    2.4   95.3
B. CivIl Works
1. Outside Plant                18.2   46.8   63.9   66.6   68.8   32.3  296.7            0.4    1.1    1.5    1.6    1.6    0.8    7.1
2. Suildings 9 sites            40.5  129.3  131.6   96.2   39.0   10.4  446.9             1.0    3.1    3.1    2.3    0.9    0.2   10.6                  '
Sib-Total                          58.8  176.1  195.5  162.8  107.7   42.7  743.6             1.4    4.2    4.7    3.9    2.6    1.0   17.7
C. Cwiltay
1. mangmnt    ,                  0.0    2.2    4.5    4.5    2.3    0.0   13.5            0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3
2. Project SiWart               12.5   39.2   65.8   19.0    0.0    0.0  136.5            0.3    0.9    1.6    0.5    0.0    0.0    3.3
Sib-Total                          12.5   41.4   70.2   23.6    2.3    0.0  150.0            0.3    1.0    1.7    0.6    0.1    0.0    3.6
Total PEOJECt COSTS               353.4  1176.6  1635.1  1074.8  515.7  141.5  4897.2        8.4   28.0   38.9   25.6   12.3    3.4  116.6
z==zszzzz=uzzm                                 u.zuuin 
Values Scaled by 10Q0000.0 9/11J1991 9:06
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      -



- 79 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page I of 2
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMlUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
Proposed Procurement Arrangements for IDA Financed Items
IDA/                                                                                    Type of        Est.
V No.   Procurement Package               Goods                      Services            Procure       US$
ment
1.1    Main Telephone          Switching Equipment, Power,   Engineering Design, Supv.   ICB          19.1
Exchanges (New)         Installation Material etc    of install/commissioning,
Technical Assistance,
Training, Repair service
1.2    Main Tel. Exchs.                as above                     asabove             Direct         2.7
(Proprietary)                                                                   purchase
2      Supply of small rural           as above                     as above            ICB            1.2
telephone exchanges
3      Main distribution frames  MDF equipment for telephone                            ICB            3.4
- MDPs                  exchanges
4      Outside plant equipment  Copper cables, jointing                                 ICB           10.2
materials, cabinets, poles and
accessories.
5      Outside plant equipment  Cable Ducts.                                            ICB            2.9
for civil works
TrasmisinBuoen
6      Microwave systems       11 Ghz Digital Microwave     Installation supervision,   ICB            2.0
systems 34 MBIs              Training
7      Earth stations          Small satellite earth stations    Installation supervision,  ICB        1.3
for remote areas             training
8      Multi access Radio      MARTS radio equipment                                    Direct         1.2
Telephone tjystems      including power, antennas etc                            Purchase
9      VHP and HP radio        Radio equipment                                          ICB            0.4
systems
10     Miscellaneous           Transmultlplexers                                        ICB            0.3
trnsmission equip.



- Rn -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 2
IDA/                                                                                   Type of       Est.
V No.   Procurement Package              Goods                      Services            Procure-     USS
ment
Transmission PEginment (cont.)
11     Expansion of existing   PCM equipment, addition of                              Direct         1.5
transmission systenm   cicuits to microwave systems,                           Purchase
expansion of Earth Station
facilities.
Other Ecuinment
12     Telephones              A variety of telephone                                  ICB           2.4
instruments
13     Other terminal          PABX for NTC, Fax           hnstallation supervision,   ICB           0.2
equipment              machines                     Training
14     Digital data equipment    Smal packet switching     Instation supervision,      ICB           0.9
exchange, modems and        Trining
associatde equipment
15     Primary power           Diesel Generators           Training, supervision of    ICB            1.4
equipment                                           testing
16     Airconditioning         Packaged A/C for exchanges   Installation supervision,  ICB            1.4
equipment                                           training
17     Office facilities and   Computers, copiers, printers                           Internation-    0.8
training equipment     and miscellaneous                                       al & Local
Shopping
18     Vehicles                Motor vehicles                                         ICB            1.2
19     Consultancy                                         Management training, Sector  Bank's       0.5
reform & Tariff study.     Guideincs
(ncl. contingency)



MONUR.WKI                                                         ANNEX3.5
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLION)
cornulat   Te1ecm iniIaTn
1993       I     Dec. 31,92     0.0         0.0          0.0           0
11    June 30.93      5.5        5.5          5.5          10
1994       I     Dec. 31,93     2.5         8.0          8.0          14
If    June 30,94      8.5        16.5        16.5          30
1995      I      Dec. 31,94     6.5        23.0         23.0          42
11    June 30,95      7.0        30.0        30.0          54
1996      I      Dec. 31,95     4.0        34.0         34.0          62
11    June 30,96      7.0        41.0        41.0          74
1997       I     Dec. 31,96     4.0        45.0         45.0          82
11    June 30,97      2.0        47.0        47.0          86
1998      I      Dec. 31,97     7.0        54.0         54.0          98
1I    June 30,98      1.0        55.0        55.0         100
i Ditburs emnt prfiDleia8ed on 8an1 profile foral communicatlons A81a Region.



5uCaa^t                                          NAEAL                                                 ANNEX3.6
WhI2                       RM~~~~~FJJTELECOMMLIM0I4TIONSPRWJECT
NIEPAL TELECOMMUNMCA1ONS CORPORA77ON
Schedule of Constuction
Telephone Exchanges         c..                   <-- .........
~_F                                              ii  i 1. +f
TransmissTon Equipment - RNNIDA        "<- -         -      >
#9>~~
-ICB        c.*_  c............              .>^->_............._
Terninal Equipment (Note 1.)                 <...> r 
<#I >             .    >
Outside Plant - DANIDA                                <
[I >.                  >
- [C -co                     ......
< @ <:#H#M. >   +                01>Itll1F
~~~~.  ._       ...              .. .,
Rural transmission systems
MARTS, satellite, VHF,HF      c.I... >e *:                  >      #### N 
JICA                            =   _              _     _->
Other Equipment                          <......................... ..>
0*-*** *----
# ~~~~>
Cisl Works - Outside Plant                          ........ .                F+ 44>
- Buildings       c.....~   ,- *-><4-444-. ....+.         1I>N
t~~~f                                  Oc                       "                                            to



ANNEX 3.7
- 85 -                            Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATION CORPORATiON (NTC)
SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
General:
1.    NTC is about to embark on its Fifth telecommunications expansion project.
This project will include, inter alia, the installation of about 61,000 new lines
of switching equipment, installation of radio and optical fiber transmission
systems, the provision of outside plant and appropriate customer terminal
equipment. Over the past 4 projects NTC has gradually developed its construction
and operational skills by stretching its responsibilities on each occasion.
Again NTC has arranged the implementation of this project in a way that will
stretch their construction, operational and management skills and thereby
continue to develop their overall institutional capabilities.
2.   The project is being funded through a mixture of grants and bilateral soft
loans. Grants are being provided by Danish International Development Aid
(DANIDA), the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA), and the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA)1/. The World Bank Group will
provide development credit through its International Development Agency (IDA),
and bilateral soft loans will be provided by the governments of Belgium and
France. IDA will be the lead agency for project appraisal and supervision. A
close degree of cooperation has been established between Danida, FINNIDA and IDA,
and based on past experience, these agencies have recognized that continued close
working and sharing of information between them is important to ensure that any
project related problems are addressed in an integrated manner.
3.    Because  the project  is complex,  relatively  to NTC's  implementation
capacity, and requires close frequent on site supervision, which the development
agencies are unable to provide directly, it is proposed to appoint a consultant
to undertake detailed technical project supervision on a regular basis.  The
consultant will be funded by Danida; but IDA will act as executing agency and be
responsible for appointing and managing the consultant.
Objective:
4.    The objective is to appoint a consultant to undertake in-depth technical
supervision of the project on behalf of IDA, Danida and FINNIDA. The consultant
would supplement, but not replace, normal supervision by these agencies.  In
appointing a consultant to undertake this work, the agencies are sensitive to,
and would seek to minimize, any unnecessary workload imposed on NTC as a result
of the consultant's visits. Therefore, it is proposed that the consult would,
I/ JICA is providing, through turnkey operation, a Phase lwo extension to NTC's rural transmission networks. This
in a stand alone project component construction of which is planned to commence in 1992.



ANNEX 3.7
-8a6 -                             Page 2 of 4
at the time of visiting Nepal to undertake project supervision, provide NTC with
technical advice and support on project implementation matters.
Scope of Work:
5.    Phase One; In order to become familiar with the project and the techniques
used by, and capabilities of NTC, the consultant would be required to visit Nepal
for a period of about 6 months, beginning as soon as possible. So as to add value
for NTC during this phase, the consultant would be required to provide advice and
assistance for preparing the complex project implementation plan that is
required.   NTC is taking appropriate initiatives throvgh organizational and
staffing changes to strengthen its project management capabilities for the
project. During this phase, therefore, the consultant would be required to work
with the new Project Division that is being created and undertake the following
tasks.
(a)   Become familiar with the Fifth Telecommunications Project, NTC's
preparations  for  the  project,  identify  their  implementation
strengths and characteristics that may benefit from additional
development.
(b)   Develop with NTC, a plan for supervising the project.
(c)   Guide and provide technical assistance to the Project Division in
developing appropriate integrated computer modeled plans for
managing resource allocation, maximizing project implementation
efficiency, and developing a practical and effective project
reporting routine.
(d)   Identify potential implementation concerns that may cause delays or
problems; determine the importance priority of these concerns; and
help NTC by developing solutions which fit withlin their culture and
capabilities.
(e)   Work closely with other expatriates who are assisting NTC with
project implementation. As separate expatriato advisors are being
provided for outside plant planning and construction, the consultant
will not be  required  to become  involved  In detailed project
implementation matters in this project component. Rather, the
consultant will be required to ensure that this group's plans for
resource allocation, project timing and programming, and reporting
arrangements are consistent with the overall project implementation
requireinents.
(f)   provide training to NTC staff on project management principles and
use of the Nlicrosoft Project computer program for project
programming as well as one other larger well hnown program which
meats NTC's needs and operates on a PC.
6.    afgg,IM:  Following tho Initial period with NTC, the consultant will bo
required to regularly return to Nepal to assess progress made on the physical
project elements and provide further support to NTC, as necessary, to smooth
project implementation and minimize delays. The frequency and lengths of the



- 87 -                            A NNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 4
visits will need to be adjusted as the project progresses, but initially 3 visits
of 4 weeks each per year are envisaged. To the extent possible, the visits should
be coordinated to precede and overlap with any supervision visits by IDA, Danida,
or FINNIDA. As the project progresses, less frequent visits will be necessary.
Specifically, the consultant will be required to undertake the following tasks.
(a) Assess progress made on each of the physical project components
including civil works, outside plant, switching, transmission, and
software development. The review should include all relevant project
related  activities  including  planning,  design,  poeurement,
implementation, and control and delivery of goods and services.
(b) identify existing and potential problem areas that need additional
attention by NTC management. Discuss, and develop with NTC's
management, recommended strategies for overcoming these problems.
(c) Assist NTC refine its project management and coordination skills and
procedures, including preparation of adequate and effective progress
reports, and more effective coordination and works procedures and
goods control methods.
(d) At the conclusion of each visit, provide a report to IDA, with
copies to Danida, FINNIDA and HMG/NTC. Each report should summarize
project progress, identify problems, and propose actions for
overcoming them. In addition, the report should comment on NTC's
project management technique and suggest and institutional
development actions which should be taken for further improvement.
Contract and Length of Consultancy:
7.    It is proposed that the same consultant will be required to undertake both
Phase 1 and Phase 2. In order to operate effectively, it will be essential that
the consultant is quickly able to gain the confidence of the agencies and NTC.
While the consultant will be contracted to undertake both phases of the project,
a regular review of the consultant's performance will be made during Phase 1 by
IDA, in consul..ation with Danida, FINNIDA and NTC.  If at any time after two
months from project start, the consultant's performance is considered
unacceptable, then the contract will be terminated and a new consultant
appointed.
8.    The project implementation is expected to be about 5 years. The early
stages of project preparation and supervision will be the most important and
during these periods the consultant would be required to closely supervise the
project. As the project progresses, it is expected that the consultant would
play a diminishing role in supervision. The consultant would be engaged for a
total perie)d of 20 months, subject to satlsfactory performance, with the proviso
that a reduction in the total work perlod of up to 15X could be made at the
discretion of IDA.
Tiling:
9.    The consultant would be requlred to begin work as soon as possible and not
later than        [date to be inserted after timing of funds are known).



- 88 -                           ANNEX 3.7
Page 4 of4
Reporing:
10.   The consultant will be required to report to IDA vith copies to Danida,
FINNIDA, NTC and HMG (the Secretary of Communications). The following reports
will be required:
(a)   An  initial report after  1 month  and regular monthly reports
thereafter. The content of each report should be decided primarily
by the consultant, but should briefly summarize the consultants
activities and achievements; the status and agreed next steps for
project preparation; and highlight the critical areas of project
preparation and management that next need attention. Any specific
requirements that IDA may request should be incorporated.
(b)   A comprehensive report 3 weeks prior to completion of Phase 1. That
report should include details of report status, the next steps to be
taken by NTC to minimize project delays, a summary of project
management training given to NTC; recommendations for restructuring
and/or changing procedures within NTC to improve project
coordination, management and implementation and any other important
findings.
(a)   A supervision report at the conclusion of each visit. This report
should include a summary of project status highlighting problem
areas and delays; the next steps and agreements reached with NTC on
actions to be taken; and other recommendations.



*"                                     n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FrU EECOAnMAONS PRECr                               ftQ9 1014
NEPAlL 7ELEWWON1CSMCOfvR0FW=(NT;C
HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENT
(Nlqs mfon)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\   _ _ S,
I-REVE#UES
BadcRw_                                                                                                            69        114
0MacdCdE                                3D         20         38        0          87        124        141        so         so
Tfkd                                  iS        17         20         42         as        lie       ISO        la1        2
ilSe    tl¢wds                          21         tIS        48        as         so        182       21B5       35D        421
Ttdltdox                                20         30         4S        61         42         as        e5         1a        tI
Tod T@bW*b                               7          *         a          a          a          8         7a 
I  fbqC b=*i                          3          a          7          S                            
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3                                          5    a s9    *t                 20-       12         12
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-T
&bfi                                    22         32         3;        43         41h        72        129       is?        200
0&1"_cp                                  9         1O         t2         2:!       24         211        :6        30         44
D _~M                                   19         22         33        Go        II         122        in        20W        20
0am                                      9         11         W          le        27          5         48        48         5
He Op@s. Rbv (A- O)                     30         62         70        109       12D        21s2       3D4       35B        S73
bblropnS@t(                             23         31D        3t        35         57         37        log       162        105
Nd nn-p. E =iLn                          4          2                    1 4       22          3        32         S2         22
InewmTaxI)                               7         12         23        28         ll         7a        01         ea         74        
.   tvo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h



FEWT/MMOM                                                                 WEPAL                                                   ANNEX4. t
FIFTH TEL ECOMMUNICA77ONS PROJECT                                        Page 2of4
NEPAL T&ECOMMUNICA77ONS CORPORAl47ON (NTC)
HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEET
(NRs million)
I - FDE ASSETS
M= in Opsratlan(J)                         324         387        489         684       1.t02       1.627      2.322       2.741      3S257
1nM2 .De9pFataJn (l                         98         120         153        209         319        421         weo         806       1,046
NetPIntinOpsr.(L)                          237         267         ;S7        475       1,282       1.206       1.710      1.35        2,211
PWtu1duconIuctiUn(U)                      148         222        462         983         810        919         441         302        400
TOTAL                         i  <  ' ""'S.ETS         I.        yjw s              ' ton i          - N St,2rt > <zis '    , ,.:'
Fin. Invetnnts                                                                              0         20          22          35
TOTAL~~~~~        .:.,.,e$,i,           So's .; ,;' .:,: ,;S                               N :lq'21*)'   'n
ii - CURRENT AS5ES
CawhsndnBks                                 32 32                   70        107         192        282         467         384         603
kAauntsfPAcelable                           27          41         S7          7e          92        200         248        211         254
1nwuL In Gov. SicurWe                        0           3          3          2B          49         49          49         84
nventory                                    13          13          14          S          13         1a          20         23          27
Other                                       19           8          11         16          16         27          41          77         50                ND
' -ii;.'''. ENtASSETS(F4'. ..02                 102       ,165:   ~23'           '''          6si§>%.32'~.,< 0
DeferedCharges                              13          14         20          50          e0        118         181         184          0
:.TOTAL ASSS        :..                               ;     ;;  2,1 4.  ..,
I - EQUITY
GoVanment Eqity                             76          92        253         779       1.198        923         945         945        945
Capiunew                                     I                       1          1                      1           1           1
Rained Eanings
Beg. ofysa                                 34          38         48          50          92        128         223         333        417
Add'in                                      5           9          a          37          35         95          97          84         90
Endao year                                 39          48         55          92         128        223         320         417        507
TOTAQMU(S)"   4.:>;i..                     11'         141 "       0 f .'   ' '  .     .tYN   t              1
U - UABIULMES
Grass Lng Ten  Debt                        299         342        494         680         88        1.109     120         1.350       1,387
C>rentpaorton                               27          22         as          42         104        148         200        203         318
SUBScRIBERDEPOSloS                          2S          34         52         7v          128        to7         ZoS        230         24
PENSION FUND                                 7           9         1          13          1S         17          20         25          30
AccwntsPayable                              52          79        109         104         1e0        s9          405        260         250
CurrniaupotlonLTflebt                       27          22         35          42         104        14U         200        208         310 e
Otler                                                                                                                         9         119         
T      G m URRX' A8  I1$(',                 VP "'""  1;                               N ;         N                           v   " i.
49.0                N       'f            N\'..    N           NN. ......., \  KNg;NN .N'.Afl



Fssvnmma                                                                  NEFAL                                                    ANNEX 4.1
FiF7H TELECOMM IUV CAJTS PROJECT                                         Page 3 d4
NEPAL TELECOMMUNLCAINS CORPFO   N VTQ
HISTORICAL SOURCES AND APPU(CATIONS OF FUNDS
(NRs million)
I- SOURE
NFtftPM(C-D-F)                               5           9          a          37          30        9g           97          U          90
0_opasm                                     19          22         33          58         III         122        18      t8             240
Gtown                                                               12         22           7          2           3
tInei(E)                                    23          30         31          33          57         87         109         152         193
OebIunimtila1Ioo                                                   22          35          54         113        149         204        287
Inte"(E)                                    23          30         31          33          57         87         109         152        193
T i >" Xi"^ F U ~~31~.K' 41'.S '   81 ;-<0>   6$X XS7  ; 
t-+ ¾ 2i   w    .                                              .;i.s .'.F .  mu ;     i.s F5  '6s  . 10^.S.-.3 i.8? \\z s  F  y    0t  N
EqultycoaMrbu fiM                            0          13         109        526         419       (274)         22           0          0
Excage Lesan Debt                                                                                                                       304
Bofofwings                                              71         174        216         250        446         277         150          0
Subawlbrdepodts(l                                                  18          24          50         41          S8          49         15
11 -APPLICATIONS
InCiem In Fibd Oper. Ae                     65          52        103         19S         917         28         595        419        S1
IncM"lnW.lnPgwu,                            42          74        240         521        1173)       109        (478)      (139)         9
changslwoomngCapltsl                         8          (9)        24          So          a3         So         1S0          (2)      (251)
Inceae In RFi nt.                                                                           a         20           2
Odsende&Othen                                0           0         16          47          .0        109          63
. . . PPEW                                                                                                     4 .......... -    t11  - F . '   '   *  .  %''  .F " ?  .
ill - PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Debt SveRlsloch9mioi(VN3                  2.03        2.05        157        2.19        1.85        1.53       15.3        1.22        1.09
In? Cash Ge. Rlo % (Z-Y))                22.47T     28.14%      18.79%      42.61%     29.06%      28.11%      a6.%       28.47%      O0M
inc. Subwcrier Dep() in int Cash        22.47%      28.14%     2.8         5523%      44.51%      30.10%      89.35%     45.8924      9.61'A
eSf*



MiMa.x                                                                       NEPAL                                                     ANNX4. 1
RFTH7flH7ECOMMUNICA7701HSPRWECr                                             Page 4014
NEPAL 7aEcMMWCATIONS CORPORA7AON (NTC)
HISTORICAL BASIC PARAMETERS
~~~~~i :
Aldded dwiaf ft yenr                                   11000       UW          7,000      14.=2        4.451D     ltS,Sfl      OrW0            O
Tddgyearond                               20,580      21.580      28.780      35,780      S8000       S5,080      tl,tR20     77,700      77.70D
Yeuavemp(}                                18,C80      21.080      2$.180      322B0       43,19D      52,890     ae2Uo        74,0BD      n7007
Added durhg te Ir                                      9,083       Zenl        4,1eo       8,2         7.907       9,840       9,719       3,260
Tat year end                              15,WN       19,057      2i.719      25,885      34.184      42,091      S1,931      Gl,As0      84,9D
Ye& &U80(N                                15,242      17.511      20.38       23,802      30,035      38,138      47.011      SA791       03,27S
FiD Ratio %                                 78%          88zi        764b        72e8        a%z         76          73%         70%         8411
A,dded BhnpCpcity                                         0           84          0         268           9            0           0          0
Y"uendamwchpan"87                                                   438         UO          6@2         J92         awQ   *        2        0122I
Added Wolidng Una*                                        0           64          98          10         74           as          Is          20        x
Y<rendWoMUnes()                                                     950          Sao        405         479          542         #ID        CN O
FigRoto #A(0"X                                                       80%         89%         SMi         es          78%          t          84      
Ad&hgny                                                              170        9t1          72         949          O8         30S          eoi
TddWymnd                                               2,45        2.e28       2.099       3,077       3.425       9.494       S.          9,057
Avaoe                                                  2,4S2       2,640       2,814       3,038       S,z62       3,480       3.a9l       3,92
Aw ig aay    tsN Rs                                    I'm9        1,t04       I'm6        1,943       1,847       3,096       4.000       4,440
AwQukb&whvmUSS                                           eo          S2          5S          SS          as         106         125         104
AVRG. GROSS FoamSSETS IN OPER.             so1A2 .    30.63        438.15      588.79    t,t42.88    1.8t4.50    1,074.85    2.631eD    2908.92
WORIONG UNES                               15,242      17S611      20,98S      23,802      90,o5       sB.13B      47,011      60D9        93,26
Woorid niiibe                                             O+S        17.9         8.8         7.9        6O 3)        3.4         3.4        &99
Domstc lnfabn                                             4.1        16.9        13.         11.0         8.1        ll.S        11.0        11Q0
US.SAIDL(bo!Lue)                                                    1,014       1,131       1,e33       1,574       1,434       *.=9        1,110
..              ~~~~~Utban                                  1,109       1,165       1,223       1,29D       1,300       1,43        1,S12       1,S97
Tadl                                      t6,25      1t6.tl7      1f1oB0      17,539      1798        18,43S      18,9a0      19.318      19,74e
3~~~~~~~~~~~ EN,,,.,,.x                                                                     <~ .N\a<zr 11;
Urban                                       1.44        1.84        1.78        2.01        2S61        2.94        3.43        4.00                 & 
M ddddyOper.g teenu                                     10.S        14.00       2087        27.2        404         5828        e7.28       77721 18
Acrou aa(nb0)                             18080n21.88                4.07        3.28        S94         4.60        40        4.14       7200
Aal ysRendw                                5.f9wHMGw057s 2.         S.701        2.78        2.81



- 93 -                  ANNEX 4.2
NEPAL
FIFT TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPOmON (NTC)
HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BREAKOOWN OF REVENUES
N% mintatn
!    .    i   ;  ff |l~~~~nstallation 24% |
mTelgrah 0.7%|   
> W 1 7t asic Pental 8.4%
Intbmatbonal A4djustrent 1.6%           
///////i  <  |  .  0  |Trunk Calls.24
E mtoa Cal ,4. .        



- 95               ~             ANNEX4.3
Page I of 4
8 Aprl 92
NEPAL
IF171 TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELCOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PROJECTIONS
1.    NTC's Financial Statements were projected in nominal NRs until the year
2000 based upon the assumptions discussed herebelow. Necessary items from these
projections were transformed into real NRs of December 1991 in order to calculate
the Return on investment and were projected in real terms until year 2008 (15
years average life for project components).   Two sets of projections were
developed: (1) the proposed Fifth Project is implemented and meets a demand level
projected for 1996; and (2) without the proposed project, in which case a rapid
increase in the currently existing congestion leads to a situation of high
unsatisfied demand and rapid deterioration of service quality due to
unsustainable levels of congestion. Both scenarios assume that the new tariff
structure (resulting from the IDA tariff study of December 1990 and subsequent
NTC study) will be approved by HMG in September-October 1991, with validity
starting from January 1992. This new tariff structure will follow NTC's proposed
tariff of July 1991. (see Annex 5.3 with Current and Proposed Tariffs).
A. Projection of NTC'S Mnacial Statements Assuming
Inplementation of the Proposed 5th Project.
General Assumptions.
2.   NTC's staff/1000 Working Lines ratio will reach a value of 50 in 1995.
3.    The number of installed lines during the proposed project will be as
indicated by NTC in Annex 3.1 "Exchanges", i.e.: 8,250 in 1993, 16,930 in 94,
18030 in 95 and 17,640 in 96.   The number of lines commissioned in a year is
calculated allowing a further 6 months delay. The number of Working Lines is
calculated assuming that 40X of the lines commissioned in a year are connected
to subscribers in the following year, and another 40X in the subsequent year. The
remaining 20X represents the number of available lines (fill ratio of 80X).
Income Statement
4.    Rentyiu
Revenues were projected assuming that the proposed new tariff structure is
approved with validity starting from January 1992.   Annex 5.3 presents the
detailed current and proposed tariffs.   The main assumptions are briefly
presented below in a line-by-line order.



- 96 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page2o/f4
Installation fee:
NRs 3,000 per new subscriber.
Basic Rental:
NRs 200 per month per average working line.
Extra Local Calls:
106 extra calls per month per working lines.  (down from 117 in 1991).
Trunk Calls (STD)-
in proportion to the number of working lines, with a 20% increase in FY93.
International Calls (ISD):
annual 20% increase in total traffic until 1996, decreasing to 10%, 5%, 0%, 0%
from 97 to 2000 to reflect the congestion resulting from lack new investment
after the end of the 5th project. Tariff increase of 50% starting FY93.
International Calls Adjustment:
no change in nominal NRs.
Telex:
with revenues declining '.O% per year in nominal terms.
Telegraph:
revenues constant in nominal NRs.
Leased Private Circuits:
revenues with an annual 10% nominal increase.
Other revenues:
constant in nominal terms.
5.    E&esBs
Salaries: the average number of staff is calculated from the projected ratio cf
staff/100 working lines and the number of working lines. The average salary per
staff is projected as following the domestic inflation (constant in real NRs).
O&M expenses: the O&M per working line is assumed to increase in nominal terms
with inflation (constant in real NRs, this is a conservative assumption).
Depreciation; from total Operating Assets as 8% annual (12.5 year working life).
This total operating assets includes revaluation for foreign currency fluctuation
and capitalization of interest during construction (IDC).
Other e;,ienses: assumed to increase with domestic inflation plus an annual 3%
extra charge.
Interest Payments: from detailed Debt Service Table less capitalized IDC.
nl22me TaLx as 45% of Income Before Tax.



- 97                 ~            ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 4
Fixed Assets
6.    Direct Addition  to Gross  Fi2Sed Assets:    includes  Foreign Currency
Fluctuation (from Debt Service Table) and IDC (from Financing Table).
7.    Additio. to Plan-t Unde Construction (Wo_rk in Progress): sum of the 4th and
5th Projects annual investments. The investment plan is based upon figures in
US$, which are converted into NRs at the exchange rate estimated for each year.
8.    Deduction from Work-in-Progress: the transfer to Assets in Operation is
calculated as 70% of end of last year balance for Work-in-Progress.
9.    5th Project Investment:  i5 the total annual investment from the COSTAB
tables, including price and physical contingencies but excluding IDC.
Basic Parameters
10.   Average Exchange Rate. World Inflation and Domestic Inflation:
(Hemo from Mr. Suriyaarachchi dated July 19, 1991)
Domestic       World          NRs/US$
Inflation   Inflation
Actuals
FY85                     4.1          0.8         18.2
FY86                    15.9         17.9         21.2
FY87                    13.3          9.8         21.8
FY88                    11.0          7.3         23.3
FY89                     8.1         -0.3         26.9
FY90                    11.5          3.4         29.3
FY91                    11.0          3.4         32.0
Projected
FY92                    11.0          3.9         42.7
FY93                     8.0          3.9         44.4
FY94                     7.0          3.9         45.7
FY95                     6.5          3.9         46.9
FY96-FY2,000             6.0          3.9          ....
Balance Sheet
11.   Accounts Receivable: assumes a reduction from a level of receivables equal
to 100 days of total revenue in 1992 to 90 days in 95 days in 1993, 90 days in
1994 and 80 days from 1995 onwards.



- 98 -                          ANNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 4
12.   Government Eqty: adds every year the value of JICA grants.
13.   Addition to Retained Earnings: equals Net Profit
14.   Gross Long Term Debt:  adds every year borrowing from BELGIUM, DANIDA,
FINNIDA, FRANCE and IDA to the increase in past debt due to Foreign Currency
Fluctuation less last year amortization.
15.   Current Portion: is the amortization due next year.
16.   Subscriber Deposits: number of new working lines times NRs 5,000.
Debt Service
17.   Assumes on-lending of all 5th Project grants and loans in US$ at 9.5%
annual interest rate. Annual withdrawals from the Financing Table, amortization
beginning the 6th year.
B. Projection of NTC's Financial Statements without
the Proposed 5th Project.
18.   The model used for the projected financial statements allows for a simple
conversion to the scenario without the proposed project; it is only required to
make zero the entries for: (1) Project Investment in the Assets Table; (2)
installed and working lines in the Basic Parameters Table; (3) borrowing from all
donors; and (4) set to 60 the ratio of staff per 1,000 working lines.   These
zero entries automatically adjust for the scenario without the proposed project;
the only additional change is to adjust the growth in international traffic to
take into consideration the earlier congestion due to lack of expansion in
required facilities. The adjustment was done shifting the decrease in growth
rate from 20% until 1996, 10% in 1997 and 5% in 1998, to 5% in 1993 and zero
growth from 1993 onwards to reflect the high congestion resulting from lack of
urgently needed expansion.



w4ram..wm                                                      NEPAL                                                          ANNEX4.4
RiFTH TELECOMMUNC117ONS PROJECT                                                  Page o1f4
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORAON WC;
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(NRs million)
I-REVENUES
lndumlion                                      24           20            36           42           32           11             0            0
Bao Renbt                                     165           183          200          237          2e7          284           288          288
ExtraL eCadl                                   87           97           108          126          141          150           152          152
Tnk cags                                      264          292           328          378          420          453           4e0          460
Intematlona calg                              75S          908         1.087        1,305         1.435        1,S07        1.607        1.507
Intern.callsadjudmont                          13            13           13           13           13           13            13           13
Taotl blex                                     55           50            4S           41           37           33            30           27
TOdaTelp                                        6             6            3                         6            6             6            a
LunasdP*dalecircuit                             10           11           12            13           15           16           18           20
Other                                           12           12           12            12           12           12           12           12
A-EXPENSES
saes                                          234           258          281          323          377           451          478          507
O&Mexpenm                                       62           e2           74           90           108          122          131          139
Drciaon                                       274           313          399          553          742           915        1.053         1,156
Othes                                           61           57           73           s0           87            95          103          113
NtOper. Rov(A-)                                S72          891         1028         1.127        1.071          902          721          670
Intopaynmt(                                    196          188          16           24           295          327           306          26
Netnon-Op.Expsm                                 20           18           16           14            12           12           12           12
Income Fx(F                                    250          308          387          390          344           253          181          131
p                      ~      ' "'  '.4~k~*t



Ow"Immwo                                                    NEPAL                                                         ANNEC44
rFIFIH TEL ECOMMUNICA7ONS FROECT                                               Page2014
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICA77ONS CORPORA TION (7TC)
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
(NRs million)
I-FrXDASSETS
PantinOpraonJ)                              302         4.25          S.737       8.090       10.449       12.431       1m          15,018
los.wcUM Doprcali (K)                       l32          1.634       2.033        2.580        3.327        4.242        5.215       6.452
Net Pa hIOper. (L)                          2282        2601         3.704        5.505        7.122        8.189        8,693       8 560
Plantunderandruclmn M                       700         1.191       2.082        1.700        1.026         449          135           40
TTQ AWL?1lFIXEtASUT                         2.13    i?.092        ">~     'i   '~Z0            8.4      > 6~            9             8. iO0S7:
Rn. Inbhr  nt.
I1-CURRNT ASS
CasoumdbU ank                                500          n77         1.024       1.424       1t95          3.092        4.129       5.211
AccountsPRcebabl.                            383          392          407          478         522          545          545          545
nw.L In Gov. S wus
lmwy                                          31           35           41           47          E4           62           71           82
Ohemr                                         50           50           50           50            o          so           G0 o0 
TOTAL C .R       ........ N                 1.003     ;    9    "    1;:...... '0 1.wi< ~ 2  i'               t       NN45.;SS..:79<.si,?W' o.8R 
DeferredCh  u                                  0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0
TOTALA3SMS-                        ,..4   ;   : ,                                :0          10.746                        2     .1.4-5¾:.&
I- EOWTV
Gammmnt Equty                                            1.154       1I276        133          1,333         3           1.333        13
Capitd
PndE
BugoI.osp                                   507          813        1.190        1.638        2.118        2.56B       284S         3.067
AddRiSo                                     306          378          449         477          420          310          221          le1
BEdofar                                     813         1,190       1.038        2.110        2,38        2,845       3.067        3227
'TOTAL it2.4                                                                       >.A
II-UlTILMES
GnraLonTwmDebt                              I'344       2,00t        3.440        4.845        6.091        7.218       8.124        8.929
Cuffentprelon                                323          330          336          336         300          223          227            0
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .....-,I  w,,                                                                                         K
5USBCRIBERIDEOSITS                           287          320          380         451          504          622          622          522
PEN;IONFUND                                   20           42           48           65          02           a8           75           82
& baPcutyabe                                 260          280          200         260          200          260          260          260
Current paorn LT.Debt                        323          33           336          3           3900         223          227            0
Ctoms                                        247          280          266          '42          (17)        142          142          142                 a
;, L~PA8(Et~)                         ,    ,      .....79......  m    .46X     . .........           . '.   $#.4 ".  NX N 02&>. \ . t40
48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X                                                                                               N



FsuRwl                                                            t/EPAL                                                      ANNEX 4.4
RFIH TELECOMIUNICA47ONS PROECr                                                Page 3014
PEPAL 7TLECOMUNICATIONS ORPORA71ON(nA)
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(NRs million)
I-SOURCES
Not Pwfoit(CO--E-F                          306          376          449         477          420          310         221          161
Oeprealian                                  274          313          399          #53         742          915        1.053        1.155
int.est(E)                                  196          188          196         246          295          327         3PA          26
Debtamo,tmuon                               318          323          330          336         336          236         223          227
intereZ (E)                                  ¶96         188          196          246         295          327         306          265
iqultycortburonsM                            53          155          122          57            0            0           0            0            o
Exchange Lou on Debt                         54           94          364         802         1.103       1.231        1.131        1.031
soffowings                                  239          8BT        1,40          940          478          t20           0            o      
60nedberdepotsI7                             40           33           eo          71           5S           is           0      
II - APLCTIONS
emu  in Fixed Cps. Aso                      345          033        1,602        Z,96         2,S58       1.98a        1,457        1,129
Inelr! In W. In Pmgran                      299          791          592        (383)        (674)        (577)       (314)         (94
ChlalnWokingCapatl                            6          112          374         593          776          962        1.030        1.086
himm hI Fhi Iror
ID - PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Debt Snvico RPa    flo Gimsa,(VNW           1.52         1.72        1.98         2.19         2.31        2.76         299         321
. Cash Gen. Ratio% (Z-Y))                 44.74%       28.01%      2622%        3629%        49.01%      70.38%       91S966      105.33%
Mld. Subscdber Dop    In lnt Cash        51.54%       31.64%       29283%      89.8%        52.17%      71.6%        91.96%    1V5.339A
a.Q
v4864



FWAX.040                                                           NEPAL                                                        ANNEX4.4
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROECT                                                Page 4014
NEPAL 7ELECOMUNICATIONS CORPORTION (NT7C
PROJECTED BASIC PARAMETERS
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, X
Added during tie yew                        4125        12590        17480        17835        8820            0            0            0
Toa yea end                                81,825       94.415      111.885      129,730     138.550      138,650      138.I56      138.650
Yea Mave!O)                                7.763        88.120      103,156     120.813      134.140      138.550        1    38.650 1
Added during boe yew                        8.050       6Me86       12.028       14,126       10.662        3,628           0            0
Toal ye  end                               72.950       79.6W3      91.664      105,790      116.452      198          119,980      119.80
Yearaverage (N)                           68.625       76.28        85.60        98,727      111.121      t1816        1190 1O9.80
Fil Rato %                                   82%          84%          820%         82%          UA%         87%          87%          87%
Added Exchange Capacity                        0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0
Year end Excane capacity(P)                  692          682          692          692         e92          692          692          e92
Added Woddr Unee                              20            0            0            0           0            0            0            0
Yew aend Wong Unes (0)                       0oo          600          G0o          6oo         e0           600          600          6 
Fih Rato % (QIP)                             87%          87%          87%          87%          87%          87am          7%         87%
Added in yo                                  218           41          132          583           0            0            0            0
Total yewr end                              4.178       4.218        4.49         4.932        5.779        5.779        5.779        5.77s
Average                                    4.067        4.196        4,283        4.840        5.112        5.773        S.779       S.779
Awg salarmonth N Rs                        4.795        5.1S1        5,464        5.792        6.140        6.508        6.899       7.313
Awg awlary/mnthaUS$                          108          112          117          121          126         131          136          141
AVRG. GROSS FiXED ASSETS IN OPER.         3,429.44     3,918.69     4,988.00      6,913.7     8269.6      11.4402      13,160.1     14,453.3
WORKING UNES                               68,S25       76.3         85,f50       98,727      111.121      118,216      119.980      119.980
Wodd lnflatlon                                3.9          3.9          3.S          3.9          3.9          3.9           9          3.9
Domedic lnfaihon                              8.0          7.0          0.5          E.0          60           00           0L           60.
U.S.$IDEL(bookvalue)                         1.121       1,124        1,241        1.464        1.709        1.943        2.15        2.324
Totab                                      20.1*3      20.630       21,087       21,487       21.9         2231         22.735      23.18
Uwban                                                                ~0S
MonfiiyOper. Revenue                        116.13      132.60       164.5        181.10       19863        207.07       207.16      207.08             4s
Accounbt Recevable in nonths                3.12         2.           2.63         2.63         2.63         2.63         2.3          2.63         &L 44
Acot Reewbl months (who HMO awreas



- 1n3 -
NEPAL                                           ANNEK5. 1
- oae1                          FIFTH TELECOMMUNICA7ONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICAVONS CORPORA 770N (NTC)
PROJECT'S NEr CONTRIBUTION TO  HMG'S REVENUES
(NRf million)
A  A..  N  N  x:..&x<x..... '.,*x,.:.-.A.*.-,,...-A.  ...,..  ...  ..  N  4.:.44 .C ..:...........
alestax                           47       70      80      94      110     120      125   125      125
Incoomtax                         80      255     313     373      397     351      261    188     138
ReulEstatetax                      2        2       2       3        3      *4        4      a       6
Proprty tex                        0        0       0        0       0       0        0      0       0
Custom Dutis                       0        4      14       20      13       6        2      0       0
Import Ucen. Fee                   0        2       7       10       7       3        1      0       0
DANIDAIFINNIDAMDA Credit not Intern  0      9      48      127     208     262      292   275      253
BelglumlFrofwh loanslrmlnt not Intern  0    2      17      50       85     106      113   103       94
Bhiteh grant                       6        6       6        6       6       0        0      0       0
DMdends                            0        0       0        0       0       0        0      0       0
A. . ,~~~~~~~...........                                               
.~~~~~~~~:Zr ....  ..                                 fl~~JA
EXCHANGE RAfW! (Note 1)          42.7    44.4    45.7    48.9    47.8    48.8    4.8   50.8   * 51.8
NTC'sRevenus(UStmilion)            22      31       35      40      45       40      50    49        48
Note 1: Financial Statements were projetced In nominal terms.



- 105 -
NEPAL                         ANNEX52
FTHT 7ELECOMUNICAn7ONS PROJECT               Page 1 Of 3
NEPAL WEIECOMMUNICATI0NS CORPORA77ON OM
TARIFFS
(NRa)
1 - Formal Application                                                        1.00
Walting list reglstration                          walt 5-10 year  walt 0-5 years
2 - Installation chargo(non retundbi         200.00         500.00        2,000.00
3 - Security deposit (with IDD SD)           500.00        1,000.00       5,000.00
Exch more 200 llnes (ncilDD,STD)
less 200011nes (rera)                                                   3,000.00
iess 2000 llnes (hilly)                                                 2,000.00
remote areas (western)                                                  1,000.00
4 - Monthly rent                              50.00          76.00          100.00
5 - No. local calls In flat rate                             50.00          100.00
6 -pules per local call                        1.00            1.00           1.00
(no time limit)
7 - charge per pulse                           0.25           0.50            1.00
8 - Automatic long distance charge structure (STM)
pulse length    pulses per
In sec.         min.
distance                                      standard        standard
0- 25 km                                       60              1
25 - 60                                        30              2
50-100                                         25              4
100 - 200                                      10              6
200 - >                                       7.5              8
Note: there are no reduced rates at off-peak hours.



- 106 -
wrAnAr*W                                                                      ANNEX5.2
IAWN                                    TARIFFS                               page2of3
(NRS)
. ., ...     _J.Ji8~ormtn -                                             pr ...
9 - Long dist. Trunk (oper)
minimum Initlal 3 minutes
STD rates plus 20 %
0- 25 km                                                    060            1.00
25- 60                                                      1.20           2.00
50 -100                                                     2.40           4.00
100- 200                                                    3.60           0.00
200 - >                            200- 400                 4.50           8.00
400-.                   6.00
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
10 - International rates               Rs per min.    Rs par min.        rnin.
A -ISDIIDD
India                                    12             20             30
Bangdh, Pakstn                           65             45             45
Sri Lanka, Maldives                      75             45
B - Operator (min 3 min)
Group I                                  65             8o 0
Group II                                 75             so             ¶38
Group III                                85             100            Iso
Group IV                                 95             120            180
(Group V now eliminated)                   105



W.uRIP.PM(1                      TARIFFSANNEX5.2
,^-9  TARIFFS                  Page 3a o
(NRS)
.. . ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ..      . .    _
..   .....x......
1 - Domestic
Monthly Rent                         833                    1.000
local message (Rs/min)                7                        7
2 - Internatlonal
Group 1                               70                      85
Group II                              84                      105
Monthly rent                                 Soo
Local                                      unlimited
International                              as per pulse
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
Domestic
Nepall (Rs/30 Char)                               3
English (Rs/l 0 Words)                            3
Intemnational
Zone I                                           6.5
Zone 11                                          9.5
Zone III                                        11.5
Zone IV                                         13.5
Zone V                                          15.5



- 1AQ -                            ANNEX 5.3
Page  of 3
I Apd 92                             NEPAL
FrH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICAI7ONS CORPORATION (NTC)
COMPARISON BETWEEN EXISTING AND NEW TARIFFS
HMG approved new telecommunications tariffs with validity srting November 17, 1991.
Although these new tariffs not fully reflect the IDA proposal, as endorsed by NTC's Special
Committee, they are In the right direction. The new rates are sufficient for satisfying NTC's
global revenue requirements, but it will be necessary to continue with adjustments (BMG
authorized annual reviews of the tariff level) in the registration fee and the local monithly rate
to reach a better tariff structure.
I. Regjtmaion.
NRs 1       Nrs 1        To  eliminate  frivolous  registrations  and make  the
registration list a valuable planning data, the IDA
sponsored tariff study proposed to substantially
increase the registration fee. HMG did not approve this
change, however delegated a final decision on NTC.
H. Deposit
hEySine     BMoposd
Nrs 5,000   Nrs 5,000   exchanges > 2,000 lines
Nrs 3,000   Nrs 3,000   exchanges < 2,000 lines in Terai
Nrs 2,000   Nra 2,000   exchanges < 2,000 lines in Hilly areas
Nrs 1,000   Nrs 1,000   exchanges < 2,000 lines in remote areas
The new tariff will make NTC to pay an annual 5X
interest on this deposit.
mI1. Instaaon Fee
Ehzg  frosed
Nra 2,000   Nrs 2,000   Presentiy the telephone set is provided by NTC free of
cost; under the new tariff the telephone instrument will
be procured by the subscriber.
The proposed tariff included two new system to satisfy
those customers for whom the value of the telephone
service is exceptionally high (these alternatives were
not approved by HMG):
Normal OYT (Own Your Telephone): lOX of the phones in
any expansion program would be reserved for these
customers. The subscriber would pay Nrs 5,000 deposit
(for which amount he would receive interest like any



- 110                              ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 3
other customer), Nrs 2,000 installation f.e (alternative
without telephone set) and an extra amount of Nrs 10,000
as special deposit, which would not earn interest, and
which would be applied to their total monthly bill after
3 years of se-vice (example: if its monthly bill during
the 4th year averagjs Nrs 1,000 per month, the
subscriber would recover the total special deposit in
the first 10 months of the 4th year).
Special OYT: the subscriber would pay Nrs 5,000 deposit
(for which amount he would receive 5X annual interest,
like any other customer), and a special installation fee
of Nrs 17,000 (15,000 more than normal subscribers).
NTC would accept this deal only in exchanges where it
can provide immediate service.
IV. Monthly Rentl and Per Cal Charges
Nrs 100     Nrs 150      This is the tariff element which is most below the
average incremental cost (AIC) (est. AIC- Nrs 350). The
proposal recognizes the difficulty in carrying this
component to its AIC, and as a intermediate step
recommended increases to around Nrs 200 by 1992 and to
Nrs 250 or more by 1994 with several alternatives
introducing different rates for Kathmandu Valley and
other areas. HMG approved the lowest of the proposed
rates (Nrs 150) with the proviso of annual tariff level
reviews.
100 free    100 free
calli       calls   The proposal keeps 100 free calls per month and keeps
the charge per extra call at Nrs 1.   However, a time
limit of 5 minutes during peak hours was in the
proposal, which was not approved by HMG.  (Currently
local calls are not time limited).
V. Domestc Long Distance (STD)
E PaMR
see Annex 5.2           HMG approved to keep the current structure by distance
adding a 20% rate increase during peak time (7AM - 9 PM)
and that rate would be reduced in 25% during off-peak
hours (9 IM - 7 AM); additionally, a 20% surcharge was
approved for operator assisted calls.



- 111 -                            AANNEX 53
Page 3 of 3
VI. Interaonal (ISD)
see Annex 5.2            International calls were last adjusted on 12 February
1989; at that time the exchange rate was US $1 - Nrs
25.3, the current exchange rate of 42.9 Nrs per US$ 1
represents a 70% increase. The new rates include a 50%
increase to cover possible delays itl the future
adjustment. HMG authorized international rates review
every six-month, if necessary.
VII. Special Serces
The proposal included amendments to the tariffs for MARTS and Single
Channel VHF links; these amendments were not approved by HMG. The basic idea is
Lo leave single channel (SC) VHF as a good quality service for business
customers, charged at a rather high rate, and relocate all VHF SC equipment being
recovered during MARTS installation to this special market segment which is
believed to be with high unsatisfied demand.
l  I   Installation
l                              ~~~~~~~~~~(Nrs)
Service             current             proposed             deposit
JICA                             2,000               2,000               5,000
VHF SC                           2,000               2,000               5,000
VHF MC                           2,000               2,000               5,000
MARTS                            2,000               2,000    as normal phone
Monthly Rental (Nrs)
Service
.v                   .               . .. -                     . w . ........current  proposed
JICA                                           1,000                     1,000
VHF SC                                         1,000                     2,000
VHF MC                                         1,000                        500
MARTS KTM Valley                                 300                        500
MARTS outside KTM                                200                        400
NOTE: currently the MARTS rate includes 300 and 200 free calls of 1
minute each, the proposed rate would include 200 free calls of 5 minutes each,
and this 5 minute limit would applv 24 hours a day.



- 113                              ANNEX 5.4
Page I of 4
30oct.91
NEPAL
FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NT`)
RETURN ON INVESTMENT
1.          The proposed project comprises NTC's FY93-97 development program
which also includes ongoing works, other works and initial investment for future
works. The proposed project benefit period extends from FY93 to FY2008 when, on
average, all the equipment provided under the project would have completed its
useful life. No residual value of the assets has been taken into account as the
present value of these in real terms would be minimal. Benefits attributed to
the project include expected revenues from new telephone subscribers and
increased telephone revenue from existing subscribers as a result of the project.
Operating costs attributed to the project are the incremental costs incurred in
providing service to new subscribers less the savings due to the expected
reduction in staff per 1,000 working lines.
Financid Internal Rate of Return (FRR)
2.          A summary of the program's incremental costs and benefits is given
in Table 5.4-1 below. NTC's financial statements (see Annex 4.3) were projected
in detail in nominal terms until FY 2000, for two alternative scenarios: with and
without the proposed project. Relevant items from these nominal term projections
were transformed into real NRs of December 1991. From FY 2000 onwards, costs and
benefits associated with the proposed project are assumed to remain constant in
real terms. The resulting FRR is 19%, for this base case scenario, is considered
good for this type of project and is greater than the cost of money for this
entity.
lable 5.4-1: INCREMENTAL FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS
(NRs million)
Fiscal   Deflator   Capital      Total     Total   Net Benefit
Year   (Note 1)   Expenditures   Benefits    Costs    Stream
1993     1.095        322         97         0       (225)
1994     1.177       1,000       258         0       (741)
1995     1.257       1,301       456        11       (856)
1996     1.335        805        672        39       (172)
1997     1.415        365        786        72       349
1998     1.500         94        812       112       605
1999     1.590          0        767       113       654
2000     1.686           0       724       113       611
Note 1: from internal inflation as shown in Annex 4.2.
Projections for 2000-2008 were made in real terms.



- 114 
ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 4
Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR)
3.         Financial benefits and costs were transformed into economic benefits
and costs by making three adjustments: (1) the economic cost of the investment
was determined from the financial cost of the investment eliminating custom
duties and reducing the value of civil works through the use of a conversion
factor (0.9); (2) revenues were transformed into a minimum estimate of economic
benefit by adding sales tax, reflecting total price to consumers; and (3) costs
were corrected by applying the conversion factor (0.9) to one third of the
salaries, to correct for the part of the salaries which does not reflect true
economic cost due to mobility restrictions.   Resulting economic net benefits
understate the real economic benefits of the project because the economic value
of telecommunications services exceeds the pric-i charged. The economic costs and
benefits calculated on this basis are shown in Table 5.4-2.
Table 5.4-2: INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(NRs million)
Fiscal   Deflator   Capital      Total     Total   Net Benefit
Year              Expenditures   Benefits    Costs    Stream
1993     1.095        315        101         0       1214)
1994     1.177        978        271         0       (706)
1995     1.257       1,271       479        11       (803)
1996     1.335        783        706        38       (115)
1997     1.415        351        825        71       403
1998     1.500         90        852       110       653
1999     1.590          0        806       111       695
2000     1.686           0       760       111       649
4.              The projected economic rate of return is 22%, which is good.  The
result of a sensitivity analysis carried out on the economic rate of return is
summarized in Table 5.4-3.
Table 5.4-3: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions                                  Economic Rate
of Return
(a) delay of 12 months in subscriber connection 20%
(b) increases: 10% oper. costs, 5% investment    17%
(c) combination of (a) and (b)                       16%



FIRRORR.wt *WNEPAL                                                                                                                  ANNEXS.4
t8S.pt.ffeh..~91                                       FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROECT                                              Page 3 Of 4
NEPAL TELECOUMUNICATIONSCORPORATION (NTC)
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(NRs million)
5t Prolet lnw:                       .i-ent.                                                                                    0
Revenue with Project                   1,406       1.605        1.871       2.192       2.404       2.S07        2.508       2,607
Revenuewithout Project                 1.301       1,302        1;298       1294        1,212        1.289      1t28         1.287
InCren~efltl Ravame           ¢                        4     Ws7        *    go,',        - v i 11a,:  .         $.*         1   lt,220-% Si 
Cost with Project                        350         390         432         497          577         674         719         765                         i
Cost without Project                     350         391         41B         445          474         505         539         574
Deflao to NR4 ot Deee91                I        .... .09  1.177  157        1.i&        11           1.5
Net Incrementa) Benefit                  97          259         445                     714                      e5          ml            t
(real NRs Dec. 91)
Net Bensfit StreaM                      2           (74t' (3$26                                       t0   '       4,.
F'IR, prolect,l oI5ye8(00                        18498%
et  Q



P?RRERR WKP                                                                NEPAL                                                        ANNEX5.4
ssn ~FIFTH TELECOMMUNICA77OWS PRAECT                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
NEPAL TELECOMMUNIJCA 77ONS CORPORA TiON (ATC)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(NRs million)
19-3        ¶994.        1.9$.        1-96. . 199              1981         1999.       20        tz i;; oz  ki200l
5th Project Investment                    353        1.177        1.635        1.075         516         141            0        4.897
less: custom duties                        1.8         8.4         18.6         13.5         82           2.1          0.0        52.6
Civi. Works                                59          176          198         163          108          43                       744
less: 10% (tefonversion factor 0.9)       5.9         17.6         19.8         16.3        10.8          4.3                     744
'NotProject(nves1ment .1          .          :      ..' t11       1,9    ;;46             W4?.14i.*.~;...  -t>                  '4.;7.: 
Incremental Revenue                       106          304         573          997        1.113        1.217       1220         1.220
plus increrrenta SatesTax                   5           15          29           45           56          61           61          61
Incremental Costs                          (0)          (0)         14           62          102         168          180         191
Salaries with Project                     234          258         281          323         377          451          478         507
Slarisvwithout Project                    235          263         280          297         315          334          354         375
Incremental Salaries                       (1)          (5)           I          28          62          118          125         132
less: 10% on 113 of salaries               (0)          (0)          0            1           2            4            4           4
**Tote increr e .:(. -. Xo                                   ....                                                   i76, :
"Net Benefit Stream                     (234)       (83)        (1.009)       (154)        571          97         1.105        1.095
Deflator to NRO of Derlb~i 1I91          .                         .2.                        7*,. 1 ,,,-"  1.  -    .59'        1.6i:
Net Benefit Steam   -. :214) .                        (700        (80-.4) (ii'                                       G .4'
(real NRs of D-c. 91)
FIRR projftti1fe=15 eats6(2008)                    2t:784
44 46



-1.17 
ANNEX 6.1
NEPAL
FlFIH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (NTC)
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.   Telecommunications Act 21l9 of 1963
2.   Communications Corporal. iA Act 2028 of 1972
3.   NTC's By-Laws of 1976 and Amendments of 1983
4.   NTC's Financial By;-kRules 2044 of 1988
S.   Bell Canada International: Management Consultancy
Final Report, January 1990
6.   DANIDA: Feasibility Study
Final Report (Carl Bro Int.), June 1990
7.   Austroconsult: Human Resources and Training Consultancy
Final Report, August 1990
8.   FINNIDA: Preparation of Fifth Telecommunications Project
Identification Report II, November 1990
9.   Betelcom: Pre-Investment Planning Support to NTC
Financial Report, February 1991
10. Analysys/IDA Tariff Study
Final Report, February 1991
11. Telecom Australia (International) Ltd.:
Consultancy on Provincial Planning in Nepal
Final Report, March 1991
12. Debevoise and Plimpton, Sector Organization Seminar
Notes on the Seminar, June 1991



IBRD 23473
e.                                       N E P A L
F            s}                 f   C                                             FIFTH TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
L                                                      /                                                         { Humo  PROPOSED  PROPOSED         EXISTING
IaDrrchuIa  (                                                                                                                              U 0 Y    EXCHANGES
MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
Ba t                              f E    _                                 / M                                                                            DIGITAL
BaitEi | 'XE<   /       StChI                  Mugu                                                  V                                                        ANALOG
4.1< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~-JICA LINES
<                      a Silgodh:             I<SA  R  N  A                                                                                                   L S        T          S SMALL SATELLITE TERMINALS (VISA SERVICE)
TERMINALS WITH UP TO 30 REMOTE LINES
Mche d      or                                                                                                                                              NATIONL  CAPITAL
Dolpa      llq-\Mut g                                                           ZOONE BOUNDARIES
('s     /   2             >       \X         ~             9>             Dolpr      /    \t M0_                                                     rINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
g KDhangurhi   %   BHERI          /         -9 +,4?                      r      Manang                      Kothmandu                  m     himi, Bhod,okoli, Central 111, Gongabu,
Valley             Indroyeni K3ipur, Thaiba and Thecho
El Bhoktopur Chbahil,, Chhauni, Noxal and PaEon
=                  /   ~~~~~~~~RAPTI  (                                 GANDAKI                                           0 9     Cent I ,nd Central 11
Gul.1,                       Tulsipur                 Baglun     s       Pokhara9
/~~~~~~~ ora                                               i 0Ht
_I. sr A*loMnrr6                                                                                  <            ( \ Mvilongge  ~z\ i/    Wkya 2 4sh
APRIL 1992



