Report No. PID6506
Project Name                             Papua New Guinea-Forestry and (@)
Conservation Project
Region                                   East Asia and Pacific
Sector                                   Forestry, Biodiversity
Project ID                               PGPE4398
Borrower                                 The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Implementing Agency                      National Forest Authority, Office of Environment
and Conservation, Department of National
Planning and Monitoring
Date PID Updated                         May 29, 2001
Appraisal Date                           November   , 2000
Board Date                               August   , 2001
1.      Background.   Papua New Guinea (PNG) is one of the most significant
tropical rainforest global wildernesses remaining, harboring 5-7 percent of
the world's biodiversity as 36 million ha, 77T of total land area, are still
covered by closed natural forest; ranging from high altitude cloud and montane
forests in the highlands to lowland mixed forest and mangroves near the coast.
These forests are home to approximately 200 species of mammals, 15,000-20,000
plant species, 1,500 tree species and 750 bird species (539 of which are
endemic and including 90t of the world's Birds of Paradise). This forest
ecosystem constitutes one of the richest biodiversity and ecosystem reserves
remaining as an intact, contiguous tropical forest.
2.      These ancient forests are also important to the country's 4 million
people from over 700 indigenous cultures that depend on forests to meet
subsistence and development needs. Forests provide the basis of livelihood
and cultural life to the 80t of Papua New Guineans who still live in rural
communities, in or near forests. Local clans/tribal groups under customary
title own the vast majority of forested land (except 3t that is government
controlled). Under PNG law, no major development activity can occur on a
clan's land without their consent.
3.      In the last few decades, PNG's forests have become the center of a large
log extraction industry. Prior to the Asian economic decline, this industry
had an annual log output that averages around the 3 million cubic meter mark.
It contributed around $USD 270 million to GDP annually, of which some $85
million accrues to the Government of PNG (GOPNG) in the form of export taxes
and other levies, and a further $20 million goes to landowners in the form of
direct royalty  payments. Although, in recent times there has been a 50t
decline in volume exported and prices.
4.      It is probable that these levels of production and returns to both the
state and landowners could he maintained sustainably, along with the forest
bioregion's diverse biodiversity and environmental values, given proper forest
and conservation management-which includes planning, monitoring, enforcement
and effective participation of landowners in the process. Sustainable
economic growth as a whole, and political stability and development, will
remain heavily dependent upon the country's forest and other natural resources



for the foreseeable future.
5.      Project Objectives and Benefits.   The world Bank's Forest and
Conservation Project's central objectives will be to improve the environmental
sustainability of forest harvests and to implement for the first time a
country-wide strategy to promote conservation set-asides and small-scale
sustainable enterprises. Progress against deforestation, biodiversity and
habitat loss, and economic marginalization of affected landowners will be
sought through: (i) continued improvement of the capacity of GOPNG to plan,
implement and enforce sustainable and environmentally responsible forest
management; (ii) an upgrading of the GOPNG's capability to assess the
environmental acceptability of resource operations and review or reject
proposals accordingly, to be followed by regular and effective monitoring;
(iii) improvement in landowner participation in forest use decisions, their
access to the benefits of sustainable forest management and their awareness
regarding forest management and conservation issues; (iv) with GEF support,
implementation of a forest conservation and preservation strategy to be fully
compatible with clan-based land ownership, and based upon the promotion of
conservation based alternatives to intensive forest utilization, primarily
through the establishment of a trust endowment fund to provide significant
incountry funding of such activities.
6.      The global environmental objective is to foster improved management and
conservation of biodiversity and important forest ecosystems in one of the
most important remaining tropical rainforest regions. Doing so maintains
option and existence -values associated with intact biodiversity stores and
functional tropical ecosystems. Expected monitorable outcomes of project
activities would be: (i) establishment of permanent conservation areas in the
PNG context that are representative of PNG's biodiversity; (ii) maintenance of
wide-spread and regenerating forest cover, especially in areas near sensitive
conservation sites; (iii) provision for conservation reserves within logging
sites to be incorporated into Forest Management Agreements; (iv) establishment
of legal mechanisms and financial instruments able to support landowner based
conservation arid sustainable-use activities; (v) increased landowner
participation in, and benefits from, design and operation of sustainable-use
and conservation activities.
7.      Project Component Description:   The project consists of three components
related to the management and conservation of forests as well as the greater
involvement of landowners in this process. A fourth component relates to the
establishment and management of a Conservation Trust Fund as an endowment fund
to support, amongst other things, conservation and ecoforestry development
options by landowners in forests.
Component 1. Landowner Forest Decision-Making The component will assist
landowners to play a more pro-active role in managing and conserving their
forests. Procedures and mechanisms will be developed and information
disseminated to enable landowners to make more informed decisions about the
development options for their forests. Implementation of the component will
be managed by the Landowner Decision and Organization Unit (LDOU), while OEC
will be involved in Component 1.3. The Landowner Forest Decision-Making
Component has three sub-components:
Sub-Component 1.1: Development Options Studies - This sub-component will
provide the initial institutional and educational base for starting and then
following up the Development Options Study (DOS) study process. The initial
target areas will be those where forest development may involve areas of
- 2-



biodiversity or ecological significance. The DOS activities will be in two
stages. The first will involve trained animators engaging pre-selected
communities in exploratory dialogues related to community needs linked with
the potential use of forest resources. Education and awareness materials will
be made available on a planned basis.
For those communities that decide to pursue forest development options, the
second phase will assist with forming incorporated land groups (ILGs) or
comparable structures for the equitable distribution of proceeds. Assistance
will also be provided in planning and with technical inputs. The DOS approach
will be refined and prepared as a DOS strategy proposal for NEC endorsement.
Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthening of Landowner Representative Mechanisms - The
sub-component will strengthen legislative and institutional mechanisms that
support landowners to establish representative organisations. A procedures
manual for use by ILG facilitators and support agencies will be prepared.
Note will be taken of recent similar developments relating to the Oil and Gas
Industry.
Sub-Component 1.3: Land-Group Based Conservation and Resource Management - The
sub-component will assist with legal and institutional support for community
initiated Conservation Management Areas (CMAs) that link small-scale
ecologically sustainable development activities with explicit habitat
protection in an adjacent area. Legislation amendments to support this will
be made and community resource management and protection planning facilitated.
At sites selected for CMAs assistance will be provided with boundary
demarcation, resource inventories, and other measures necessary to secure
designation of the area. OEC will be strengthened in order for it to serve as
a regulatory agency for CMAs; for it to respond to the backlog of Wildlife
Management Area (WMA) applications; and for it to provide legal and other
assistance to clans interested in conservation area establishment.
Component 2. Conservation Trust Fund The Conservation Trust Fund (CTF) will be
an endowment fund, whose investment will be used as an ongoing and independent
source of in-country funding for landowner-based biodiversity conservation
ecologically sustainable development. The CTF will support developments under
the Landowner Forest Decision-Making Component by providing a source of funds
for landowners committed to pursuing conservation orientated forest resource
use options.   A strong cooperative relationship will be required between the
OEC and CTF on conservation related matters, while LDOU will also be required
to play a liaison role. The CTF Component is divided into three activity
phases:
2.1: Establishment Activities - Activities during this phase include
establishment offices and procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies as
well as the employment of a Senior Trust Fund Advisor and other staff required
to commence the second phase.
2.2: Commencement Activities - Hiring of further qualified staff and the
contracting of technical support will done. An investment management plan
will be developed and financial audit and control systems established. A
portfolio of demonstration projects will be undertaken with criteria and
indicators established to assess success.
2.3: Endowment Phase - Contingent on a satisfactory evaluation of the
Commencement Activities and Endowment Fund will be established, consisting of
initially a $10 million contribution from GEF, which would be used to leverage
additional public and private funding. A monitoring and evaluation program
will be established to assess both performance and impact of investments as
well as the performance and impact of projects funded and their compliance
with grant requirements. Efforts would be made to build the endowment through
- 3 -



fundraising plans.
Component 3. Sustainable Forest Management The component will support the
PNGFA and other agencies in sustainable management of PNG's forests, i.e.
long-term management of selected forests for sustainable production together
with the conservation of areas of environmental risk, and the setting aside of
sufficient natural forest habitat to maintain ecological and biodiversity
integrity. The component will also aim at providing greater equity in the
distribution of benefits from the forests among the relevant landowners as
well as increase participation by landowners in the forest management and
conservation process. The component will provide institutional strengthening
and technical assistance to improve FA capacity for forest management planning
and implementation, as well as for the monitoring of forest operations and
enforcement of regulations. The component will provide incentives and
sanctions to promote improved forest management and conservation practices in
areas currently being logged for timber production. The PNGFA will be
responsible for the implementation of most of the component activities, with
OEC playing a key role in relation to conservation area identification. The
component has three sub-components:
Sub-Component 3.1: Improved Forest Operations, Inspection and Monitoring -
Recommendations of a review of "timber harvesting applications" in process
begun in November 2000 will be implemented and FMAs established and forest
permits issued under the new legislation will be reviewed A review will also
be done of existing logging projects to assess compliance with regulations and
codes of practice. The system of monitoring and inspection will also be
assessed and recommendations made to make the system more effective and cost
efficient. An improved system of performance bonds for logging projects will
be introduced. The forest revenue system will be reviewed and recommendations
made on a more rational system of charges and more equitable distribution of
revenues made, together with recommendations for more efficient revenue
collection.
Component 3.2: Forest Management Planning - OEC's capacity to assess and map
GIS data on environmentally sensitive areas and those of significant
biodiversity will be strengthened. The exchange of such data between OEC and
PNGFA will be improved so that forest management planning can incorporate
environmental and biodiversity considerations more effectively. The Forest
Management Planning Section of FA will be strengthened and continuing research
will be done to improve cut control and management prescriptions leading to
improved resource sustainability. These will be linked to a revision of the
National Forest Plan and the National Forest Development Guidelines.
Component 3.3: Post-Harvest Forest Management and Plantations - The
practicality and technical viability of natural regeneration systems would be
evaluated. Assuming a reasonable degree of viability assistance would be
given to build upon existing natural regeneration programs, supporting
research and determining the required pre- and post-harvest prescriptions
required to promote regeneration. Ways would be sought to effectively
delegate responsibility for regeneration to logging companies with landowner
participation as appropriate.
The feasibility of establishing plantations will be assessed and the
conditions necessary to promote private sector investment in plantations
determined. A plantation development strategy will be prepared that
rationalises the establishment of plantations in relation to markets, costs
and investment issues, including land and tree tenure. Plantation investment
promotion will be undertaken as seen to be appropriate.
Component 4. Environmental Assessment and Monitoring The Component will
- 4 -



provide technical assistance to develop institutional capacities within OEC to
enable it to exercise effective environmental protection and regulation within
the forestry sector. It will assist with finalising the development and
implementation of a system of integrated environmental regulation and
monitoring under the new Environment Act. The Component will also develop and
test methods by which communities can participate in environmental monitoring.
OEC will be the main agency involved with the component implementation, though
LDOU could be involved in community participation aspects, which may be
related to the DOS process. The Environmental Monitoring and Assessment
Component has two sub-components.
Sub-Component 4.1: Environmental Assessment, Monitoring and Regulation -
Technical assistance will be provided to help establish within OEC the legal,
policy and institutional framework necessary for effective environmental
assessment and monitoring of forestry projects. The new environmental
regulatory system would then be implemented during the project covering both
new and existing projects. A user pays fee system for environmental
assessments will be investigated.
Sub-Component 4.2: Environmental Monitoring by Local Communities - This
activity will develop the legal, training and support basis for community
members to participate in environmental monitoring within conservation areas
and sustainable forest projects. Capacity will be developed within OEC to
coordinate such activities and liaise with communities. Pilot programs will
then be implemented, following training of community monitors. These would be
monitored and evaluated with lessons learnt incorporated into future programs.
8.      Project Cost.
Component        Indicative Costs (US$M)
Landowner Forest Decision-Making         10.6
Conservation Trust Fund 14.99
Sustainable Forest Management    8.71
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring 4.68
39.0
8.      Project Implementation:   A semi-autonomous Project Oversight Committee
(POC) will have responsibility for planning and directing project
implementation and for achieving development objectives of the project. The
Minister of Planning and Monitoring would appoint ten members to the POC
comprised of representatives from major line ministries and from NGOs; LDOU
and the CTF. The POC would meet, at minimum, quarterly. The POC will
essentially be the same committee as the NFCAP Steering Committee and, as
such, will also play a key role in coordinating forestry programs among donors
and government.
The Minister of Planning and Monitoring will appoint a Project Manager (PM),
familiar with the Forest Sector in PNG, as head of the PMU. The PMU,
administratively, would be attached to the Department of Planning and
Monitoring and would serve as Secretariat of the POC. The PM would be
responsible for managing the day-to-day activities of the PMU and, with
qualified staff, would be authorized to: open and operate bank accounts;
issue tender invitations; receive and evaluate tenders; award contracts, sign
- 5 -



contracts, and make contract payments. The PM, and the PMU staff, would be
responsible for project planning, monitoring and reporting; procurement; plus
contracting technical assistance and training inputs based upon the needs and
requirements of the project IAs. With exception of procurement using Shopping
Procedures, the PMU would manage procurement on behalf of the IAs.
In addition to the PM, staffing of the PMU would consist of six to seven full-
time technical and support staff , with additional part time staff as needed.
The PM and other key staff, including an Accountant and a Procurement
Specialist, would be employed as soon as possible using retroactive financing.
A Component Manager (CM) would be appointed in each IA to prepare annual work
plans and to maintain linkage with the PMU through joint working group
meetings that would include other agencies involved. A first-year PMU and IA
staffing pattern would be prepared by government and presented at negotiations
for Bank approval. All GEF funded establishment activities for the
Conservation Trust Fund, including technical assistance, would be managed by
the PMU until such time as Endowment Funds have been made available.
Implementing Agencies
(i)     Landowner Forest Decision Making--A small Landowner Decision and
Organization Unit (LDOU) will be established to manage implementation of this
component. It will have clear linkages to other relevant governmental bodies
including the Department of Provincial and Local Level Government, the
Department of Lands, FA and OEC. Although not formally attached to any
agency, a suitable site would be chosen for the unit needed to maintain
ongoing landowner support beyond project closing.
(ii)    Conservation Trust Fund-- The Conservation Trust Fund will be independent
of government and, after an initial period of support and financial
management, relatively independent of the project Management Unit for the FCP
as well. The CTF Board of Directors will administer a management structure for
the CTF Component. This Board, elected in 1999 by a procedure laid down in
the articles defining the CTF, is the governing body of the Trustee Company.
Links to Government, through the OEC Minister and Minister for Finance, will
be established, likely by the presence of a representative from these
departments on the interim board. The proposed financing mechanism will
initially operate as a sinking fund and develop into an endowment-based fund.
(iii)   Sustainable Forest Management--Implementation of the forest management
component of the project will be managed directly through the FA. Certain
policy and legislative matters will be handled through the office of the
Managing Director of the Authority, while responsibility for technical
management will be through the General Manager, who controls operations.
Formal links will be maintained with OEC regarding the environmental aspects
of the component.
(iv)    Environmental Assessment and Monitoring--strengthening of environmental
regulatory capacity will be managed within the OEC.
9.      Project Sustainability.   Three elements will be vital in determining the
sustainability of this project. First, it will depend heavily on the
continued commitment of GOPNG, to maintain the conditionality and the
management standards that will be established under the project: this is
subject to the usual uncertainty in a country where changes of government are
frequent. Second, the project will rely heavily on development of effective
mechanisms for landholder participation in forest management. Strong design
and support activities early in the project will he needed to maximize the
possibilities in this area. Third, if the concept of a Conservation Trust
Fund takes hold and is heavily demanded, then it will be necessary to ensure
that the funding base is maintained and, if possible, expanded through new
contributions.
-6-



Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:     (202) 522-1500
James Douglas
Task Manager
(202) 458-2273
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the Infoshop during the week ending August 31, 2001.
- 7 -



