Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
PNGMGCTF-GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050373 -  PNG
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Forestry and Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
PNG MAMA GRAUN CONSERVATION TRUST FUND
Dated December 20, 2001
PNGMGCTF-GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050373 - PNG
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, between PNG MAMA GRAUN CONSERVATION TRUST 
FUND (the PNGMGCTF), a non-stock, non-profit organization organized and operating 
under the laws and regulations of The Independent State of Papua New Guinea, in 
particular the Companies Act 1997, its Constitution dated March 18, 2000, its Deed 
dated May 12, 2000, and the Certificate of Incorporation issued by the Registrar of 
Companies on May 10, 2000, and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the 
Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) The Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
Following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
The second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Page  2
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
The PNGMGCTF and The Independent State of Papua New Guinea (the 
Government), having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested 
assistance from the resources of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)Trust Fund in 
the financing of Part B of the Project, and said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; 
(E)  The Government, through its letter to the Bank dated July 30, 2001, has 
agreed that the resources of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund Grant 
approved for the financing of Part B of the Project be provided directly to the 
PNGMGCTF under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
(F)  The Bank has received from the Government a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) 
entered into between the PNGMGCTF and each of the Government’s Department of Finance 
and Treasury, PNG Forest Authority, and  Office of Environment and Conservation dated 
November 19, 2001, declaring, inter alia, that there are no impediments under the laws 
of The Independent State of Papua New Guinea, and that otherwise the Government shall 
take all action necessary, for the PNGMGCTF to carry out its respective parts of the 
Project and perform each of its obligations under this Agreement.
(G)  The Independent State of Papua New Guinea (the Borrower) has also requested 
the Bank to provide financing for the implementation of Parts A, C and D of the 
Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to 
seventeen million three hundred sixty thousand Dollars (US$17,360.00) (the Loan); and
(H)  the Borrower has also requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund to provide additional financing for the 
implementation of Parts A and D of the Project, and said request having been approved 
in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant to the PNGMGCTF upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999, (the General Conditions) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (17) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
Page  3
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and 
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the PNGMGCTF;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the 
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the GEF."; and 
(viii)Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means an individual, community or privately owned 
enterprise established and operating in The Independent State of Papua New Guinea that 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the PNGMGCTF Operations Manual, to which 
the PNGMGCTF  proposes to make, or has made a Grant or Sub-grant , as the case may be, 
and the term "Beneficiaries" means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary.
(b)
"Conservation Management Areas" and the acronym "CMA" mean the use of 
Page  4
forest land in small-scale sustainable development activities geared towards the 
establishment of forest conservation areas. 
(c)
"Fiscal Year" and the acronym "FY" mean the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" 
means, collectively, each of said Fiscal Year. 
(d)
"Forestry Act" means the Borrower’s comprehensive legislation on forestry 
activities enacted in 1991, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(e)
"Grant" means a grant in Kina made or proposed to be made by the PNGMGCTF 
to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project out of the investment income obtained from the  
proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Grant allocated from time to time to Category (5) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term "Grants" means, collectively, all of such 
Grants.
(f)
"Kina" means the currency of The Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
(g)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(h)
"OEC" means the Borrower’s Office of Environment and Conservation, and 
any successors thereto. 
(i)
"PNGFA" means the Borrower’s Forest Authority, and any successors 
thereto.
(j)
"PNGMGCTF Operations Manual" means the operations manual setting forth 
the policies and procedures for funding Sub-projects under Part B of the Project, 
adopted by the PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund on May 12, 2000, amended on 
November 13, 2000, as the same may be further amended from time to time.
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(l)
"Sub-grant"  means a grant in Kina made or proposed to be made by the 
PNGMGCTF to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project out of the proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF 
Grant made available to the PNGMGCTF pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement 
allocated from time to time to Category (4) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the 
term "Sub-grants" means, collectively, all of such Sub-grants. 
(m)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
PNGMGCTF and a Beneficiary for financing a Sub-project out of the proceeds of a Grant 
or Sub-grant pursuant to provisions of the PNGMGCTF Operations Manual, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Sub-grant Agreement, and the term "Sub-grant Agreements" means, collectively, all of 
such Sub-grant Agreements.
(n)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project under Part B of the 
Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary  utilizing the proceeds of a Grant or 
Sub-grant, and the term "Sub-projects" means, collectively, all of such Sub-projects.
ARTICLE II
The PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the PNGMGCTF, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund 
Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred 
fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,750,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant may be 
withdrawn from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant; (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to 
Page  5
be paid) by the PNGMGCTF on account of a Sub-grant under Part B of the Project and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund is requested and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (iii) 
expenditures in respect of the contributions to be made to the PNGMGCTF’s capital fund 
for purposes, inter alia, of making Grants.
(b)
The PNGMGCTF may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the PNGMGCTF of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The PNGMGCTF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate  forestry, environment, managerial, financing and administrative practices 
and with due regard to ecological, social and environmental factors, and the 
provisions of the Convention on Biological  Diversity, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the PNGMGCTF and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PNGMGCTF shall 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of: (a) 
goods and consultants’ services under Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) 
the works, goods and consultants’ services under a Sub-Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of a Grant or Sub-grant shall be governed by the provisions of the 
PNGMGCTF Operations Manual.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the PNGMGCTF shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the PNGMGCTF and the Bank, a plan for the future of 
its operation; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
PNGMGCTF on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The PNGMGCTF shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources, capital fund investments and expenditures in respect of Part B 
of the Project.
(b)
The PNGMGCTF shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  6
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the PNGMGCTF shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the PNGMGCTF shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for carrying out Part B 
of the Project in order to enable the PNGMGCTF, not later than June 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part 
B of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
Part B of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the PNGMGCT-GEF Trust 
Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
PNGMGCT-GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part B 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under  Part B of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the PNGMGCT-GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the PNGMGCTF shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The PNGMGCTF’s Constitution or Deed shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the PNGMGCTF to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower’s Forestry Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of: 
(i) the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and (ii) the 
PNGMGCTF to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
The PNGMGCTF Operations Manual shall  have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and such 
amendment, suspensions, abrogation, repeal or waiver affects materially and adversely 
the ability of: (i) the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
and (ii) the PNGMGCTF to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the PNGMGCTF or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the PNGMGCTF to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the PNGMGCTF shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or
(B)
any such  loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the PNGMGCTF 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring, 
in the case of loans and suspension, cancellation, 
termination in the case of grants, is not caused by the 
failure of the PNGMGCTF to perform any of its obligations 
under the relevant Agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for Part B of the Project are available to 
the PNGMGCTF from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the PNGMGCTF under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank , namely, that this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund, and is legally 
binding upon PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the PNGMGCTF-GEF 
Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
Page  8
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the PNGMGCTF; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairperson of the Board of the PNGMGCTF is designated as 
representative of the PNGMGCTF for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
202-522-1590
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
202-522-3308
For the PNGMGCTF:
Chairperson of the Board
P.O. Box 1634
Boroko
NCD, Papua New Guinea
Facsimile: 
(675) 3232147
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
   Facility
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
PNG MAMA GRAUN CONSERVATION TRUST FUND
By /s/ Nagora Bogan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  9
proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part
B of the Project
  90,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’ services, 
training,
     1,000,000
100%
seminars, conference
and workshops under
Part B of the Project
(3)
Incremental Operating 
Costs  
470,000
100%
(4) Sub-grants
     2,350,000
100%
(5) Capital Fund
     7,840,000
100%
TOTAL
    11,750,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable expenditures all 
expenditures directly related to the Project, incurred by PNGMGCTF (which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for the cost 
of salaries and allowances, local travel and per-diem for the staff of the PNGMGCTF,  
extension services and office costs, including rental, utilities, maintenance and 
repairs, for the PNGMGCTF; and
(d)
the term "Capital Fund" means the initial contribution made to the 
capital of the PNGMGCTF in the form of an endowment to: (i) make Grants out of the 
proceeds of the investment income obtained from the Capital Fund; (ii) reinvest the 
gross proceeds of the investment income obtained from the Capital Fund to maintain the 
value of PNGMGCTF’s capital; and (iii) cover the administrative costs of PNGMGCTF 
representing no more than 20% of the net proceeds of the investment income obtained 
from the Capital Fund after reinvestment has been made pursuant to sub-paragraph (ii) 
above.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
Page  10
(b)
in respect of expenditures under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule until the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that: (i) at least twenty (20) Sub-grants shall have been made pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) the PNGMGCTF is in 
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement in particular with those set forth in 
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 thereof; and (iii) the PNGMGCTF shall have obtained from one or 
more donors additional financing to carry out its operations in an aggregate amount of 
not less than $5,000,000 equivalent, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.
4.
Without limitation to the provisions set forth in paragraph 3(b) of this 
Schedule, the proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated under Category 
(5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule may, at the discretion of the 
Recipient, be withdrawn from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or 
more application for withdrawal providing for the entire amount of the PNGMGCTF-GEF 
Trust Fund Grant or a portion thereof to be paid to the order of PNGMGCTF’s account 
established by PNGMGCTF.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;  (c) services 
provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; (d) training, seminars, conference and workshops; (e) incremental 
operating costs; and (f) Sub-projects financed by Sub-grants, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with 
the provisions of this Agreement, the PNGMGCTF shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, 
an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve sustainable 
forest resource management in The Independent State of Papua New Guinea, through (a) 
enhanced processes for landowner participation in forest management and conservation, 
(b) provision of financing to implement forest management options consistent with 
forest biodiversity conservation, (c) streamlined planning, monitoring and enforcement 
capacity of the PNG Forest Authority, and (d) strengthened environmental impact 
assessment and monitoring capabilities of the Office of Environment and Conservation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Landowner Forest Decision-Making
1.
Develop and implement processes to enhance forest landowners participation in 
forest management and conservation, including educational activities to improve 
landowner access to information, and improved institutional and legal arrangements for 
organizing landowner representation, regarding forest management and conservation, and 
provision of technical and financial assistance to
implement their chosen forest 
development option.
2.
Develop and implement Conservation Management Areas through the adoption of 
policies and enactment of legislation for community-initiated conservation and 
sustainable resource management areas on customary land. 
Part B:
PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund 
1.
Implementation by Beneficiaries of specific forest biodiversity conservation and 
sustainable projects, including the provision of Grants and Sub-grants and technical 
Page  11
assistance therefor.
2.
Develop and implement the PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund, including 
provision of technical assistance, office facilities, office equipment and vehicles 
therefor.
Part C:
Sustainable Forest Management
1.
Enhance the PNG Forest Authority’s capability to manage, plan, implement and 
monitor sustainable forest operations, including the provision of PNGFA staff training 
and workshops, field and office equipment, vehicles, computers and consultants’ 
services.
2.
Improvement of natural production forest management through expansion of 
sustained yield post harvest activities, including the provision of PNGFA staff 
training and workshops, field and office facilities and equipment, vehicles, computers  
and consultants’ services.
3.
Development of  post harvest management activities and feasibility studies for 
development of plantations on degraded forest lands, including feasibility studies, 
development of a forest plantation strategy and testing of methodology on a pilot 
basis. 
Part D:
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring  
1.
Development, testing and implementing environmental impact assessments and 
monitoring methodologies, including development of operational manuals, OEC staff 
training and workshops, field and office facilities and equipment, vehicles, computers 
and consultants’ services.
2.
Designing and implementing a community-based environmental monitoring program, 
including training to trainers within government agencies and Non-Governmental 
Organizations established in PNG, and testing the approach in several pilot areas.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3  
Implementation Program
1.
Grants and Sub-grants shall be made pursuant to the provisions of the PNGMGCTF 
Operations Manual.
2.
The PNGMGCTF shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PNGMGCTF Operations 
Manual,  without the Bank’s prior concurrence.
3.
The PNGMGCTF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 1, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by August 1, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of 
Page  12
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International or National Shopping
Except as provided for in Part C below, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and computers may be procured from  the United Nations Office of 
Procurement Services (UNOPS) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
Page  13
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of  individual 
consultants the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for Part B of the Project and 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services for 
Sub-projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
Page  14
to be withdrawn from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited in 
Dollars into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the PNGMGCTF shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the PNGMGCTF, 
withdraw from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the  Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the PNGMGCTF shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the PNGMGCTF shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the PNGMGCTF shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
PNGMGCTF, withdraw from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the  Special Account such amount as the PNGMGCTF 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the PNGMGCTF out of the Special Account, the PNGMGCTF 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the PNGMGCTF directly from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the PNGMGCTF shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the PNGMGCTF of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the PNGMGCTF to make withdrawals 
from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Sub-grants under Part B of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
Page  15
unwithdrawn amount of the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
PNGMGCTF. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the PNGMGCTF shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the PNGMGCTF has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the PNGMGCTF shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The PNGMGCTF may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the PNGMGCTF-GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
