Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF050372 - PNG
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Forestry and Conservation Project)
between
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated December 20, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050372 - PNG
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW 
GUINEA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in 
respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank 
as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) The Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B) Following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C) The second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis set 
forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank 
(Resolution No. 98-2);
(D) The Recipient having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding part of  Parts C and D 
of the Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the 
provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment PNG Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from 
Page  2
contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds 
carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 
94-2; and
(E) The Independent State of Papua New Guinea (the Borrower) has also requested 
the Bank to provide additional financing towards the financing of Parts A, C and D of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equal to seventeen million three hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($17,360,000) (the 
Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999, (the General Conditions) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (17) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and 
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, mean the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and 
(viii)paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means an individual, community or privately owned 
enterprise established and operating in The Independent State of Papua New Guinea that 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the PNGMGCTF Operations Manual, to which 
the Recipient  proposes to make, or has made  a  Grant or Sub-grant, as the case may 
be, and the term "Beneficiaries" means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary.
(b)
"Conservation Management Areas" and the acronym "CMA" mean the use of 
forest land in small-scale sustainable development activities geared towards the 
establishment of forest conservation areas. 
(c)
"OEC" means the Borrower’s Office of Environment and Conservation, and 
any successors thereto. 
(d)
"PNGFA" means the Borrower’s PNG Forest Authority, and any successors 
thereto.
(e)
"Fiscal Year" and the acronym "FY" mean the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" 
means, collectively, each of said Fiscal Year. 
(f)
"Forestry Act" means the Borrower’s comprehensive legislation on forestry 
activities enacted in 1991, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g)
"Kina" means the currency of The Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
(h) 
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, as applied to 
Page  4
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(i)
"GEF-Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred sixty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,560,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required 
for carrying out Parts A and D and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A and D of the Project and 
to be funded with the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, open and maintain in Kina 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the GEF Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project through the Department of National Planning and Monitoring and 
Part D of Project through the Office of Environment and Conservation, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate forestry, environment, 
managerial, financing, administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such parts of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Parts A and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services under Parts A and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out Parts A and D of the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for carrying out Parts A 
and D of the Project in order to enable the Recipient, not later than June 30, 2002, 
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
Parts A and D of the Project , both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for Parts A and D of the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period following the 
Page  6
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in the implementation of Parts A 
and D of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under  Parts A and D of the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower’s Forestry Act shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of: 
(i) the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and (ii) the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring, 
in the case of loans and suspension, cancellation, 
termination in the case of grants, is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the relevant Agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for Parts A and D of the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions of effectiveness 
of this Agreement, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of  the 
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in 
accordance with its terms.
Page  7
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance and Treasury of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient:
Ministry for Finance and Treasury
Department of Finance and Treasury
P.O. Box 710
Waigani
NCD, Papua New Guinea
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
TREASURER
(675) 3288213
Boroko
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202-522-1590
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
202-522-3308
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s/ Nagora Bogan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  acting as an implementing agency of the Global
  Environment Facility
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Page  8
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the GEF Trust
  Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part D
30,000
50%
of the Project
(2)
Goods under Part D
90,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services      1,440,000
100%
under Parts A and D 
of the Project 
TOTAL
   1,560,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works, goods and 
consultant services, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve sustainable 
Page  9
forest resource management in The Independent State of Papua New Guinea, through (a) 
enhanced processes for landowner participation in forest management and conservation, 
(b) provision of financing to implement forest management options consistent with 
forest biodiversity conservation, (c) streamlined planning, monitoring and enforcement 
capacity of the PNG Forest Authority, and (d) strengthened environmental impact 
assessment and monitoring capabilities of the Office of Environment and Conservation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Landowner Forest Decision-Making
1.
Develop and implement processes to enhance forest landowners participation in 
forest management and conservation, including educational activities to improve 
landowner access to information, and improved institutional and legal arrangements for 
organizing landowner representation, regarding forest management and conservation, and 
provision of technical and financial assistance to
implement their chosen forest 
development option.
2.
Develop and implement Conservation Management Areas through the adoption of 
policies and enactment of legislation for community-initiated conservation and 
sustainable resource management areas on customary land. 
Part B: 
PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund 
1.
Implementation by Beneficiaries of specific forest biodiversity conservation and 
sustainable projects, including the provision of Grants and Sub-grants and technical 
assistance therefor.
2.
Develop and implement the PNG Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund, including 
provision of technical assistance, office facilities, office equipment and vehicles 
therefor.
Part C: 
Sustainable Forest Management
1.
Enhance the PNG Forest Authority’s capability to manage, plan, implement and 
monitor sustainable forest operations, including the provision of PNGFA staff training 
and workshops, field and office equipment, vehicles, computers  and consultants’ 
services.
2.
Improvement of natural production forest management through expansion of 
sustained yield post harvest activities, including the provision of PNGFA staff 
training and workshops, field and office facilities and equipment, vehicles, computers  
and consultants’ services.
3.
Development of  post harvest management activities and feasibility studies for 
development of plantations on degraded forest lands, including feasibility studies, 
development of a forest plantation strategy and testing of methodology on a pilot 
basis. 
Part D: 
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring  
1.
Development, testing and implementing  environmental impact assessments and 
monitoring methodologies, including development of operational manuals, OEC staff 
training and workshops, field and office facilities and equipment, vehicles, computers 
and consultants’ services.
2.
Designing and implementing a community-based environmental monitoring program, 
including training to trainers within government agencies and Non-Governmental 
Organizations established in PNG, and testing the approach in several pilot areas.
* * *
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement of Small Works
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
International or National Shopping
Except as provided for in paragraph 3 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, computers and associated equipment may be procured from  the United 
Nations Office of Procurement Services (UNOPS) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Part B of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B.2. above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Page  11
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
Page  12
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts A and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 1, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A and D of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by August 1, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A 
and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for Part B of the Project and 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services for 
Sub-projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited in Kina into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  13
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the  Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the  Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Sub-grants under Part B of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  14
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
