                                    Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                          ReportNo: 20641-PG




                          PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                      ONA

                                 PROPOSEDLOAN

                   INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$17.36 MILLIONEQUIVALENT

                                      AND

                                GRANTFROMTHE

                    GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

       INTHEAMOUNTOF SDR 13.31MILLION(US$17.00MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                     INDEPENDENTSTATEOF PAPUANEW GUINEA

                                     FORA

                       FORESTRYAND CONSERVATIONPROJECT

                                 November 16,2001




RuralDevelopmentand NaturalResourcesSector Unit
EastAsia and PacificRegion

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              (Exchange Rate Effective August 1,2000)

                                     Currency Unit = Kina (K)
                                                 K1 = US$0.38
                                              US$1 = K2.56

                                              FISCAL, YEAR
                                           January 1   -- December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAC      Annual Allowable Cut
AusAID   Australian Agency for Intemational Development
CA       Conservation Area, under Conservation Areas Act
CRM      Community Resource Management
C M A    Conservation Management Areas
CNA      Conservation Needs Assessment
COP      Conference o f the Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity
CTF      Conservation Trust Fund
DTCA     Department o fTreasury and Corporate Affairs
DOS      Development Options Study
EA       Environmental Assessment
ERP      Economic Recovery Program
FA       Forest Authority
FCP      Forestry and Conservation Project
FMA      Forest Management Area
CIS      Geographic Information System
GoPNG    Govemment o fPapua New Guinea
ILG      Incorporated LandGroup
IA       Implementing Agency
LCP      Logging Code o f Practice
LDOU     Landowner Decision and Organization Unit
NEC      National Executive Council
NFCAP    National Forestry and ConservationAction Program
N F S    National Forest Service
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OEC      Office o f Environment and Conservation
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PNG      Papua New Guinea
P M U    Project Management Unit
P M      Project Manager
POC      Project Oversight Committee
PIF      Project Implementation Fund
SOE       Statement o f Expenditures
TCEM     Total Catchment Environmental Management
TFAP     Tropical Forest Action Plan
TNC       The Nature Conservancy
WMA       Wildlife Management Area

                                    Vice President:        Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director:         Klaus Rohland, EACNF
                                   Sector Director:        MarkD.Wilson, EASRD
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                 James J. Douglas, RDV

                                        PAPUA NEWGUINEA
                           FORESTRYAND CONSERVATIONPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Global objective                                                                    4
   3. Key performance indicators                                                          4

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  7
   2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project                        12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      13
   4. Institutional andimplementation arrangements                                        13

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
   2. Major related projects financedby the Bank andother development agencies            16
   3. Lessonslearned andreflected inthe project design                                    18
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment andownership                                     18
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         18

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                            19
   2. Financial                                                                           19
   3. Technical                                                                           20
   4. Institutional                                                                       20
   5. Environmental                                                                       21
   6. Social                                                                              23
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  25

F. Sustainability andRisks

  1. Sustainability                                        26
  2. Critical risks                                        26
  3. Possible controversial aspects                        27


G. Main LoanConditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                               27
  2. Other                                                 28

H. Readinessfor Implementation                             29

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                               29


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                            30
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                       36
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                            44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                     45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                 53
Annex 6: Procurement andDisbursement Arrangements          54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                       75
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                      76
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                   77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                              78
Annex 11: Social Analysis o f Rural Development Issues     80
Annex 12: Papua New Guinea Conservation Trust Fund(CTF)    85
Annex 13: Summary o fEnvironmental Review                  89
Annex 14: Forest Protection Policy Condition               96
Annex 15: FirstYear Procurement Schedule                   98
Annex 16: Six Year Implementation Schedule                 105
Annex 17: Supervision Planto Mid-Term Review               110
Annex 18: Public Participation Summary                     113



MAP(S)
IBRD30517

                                            PAPUANEW GUINEA
                                FORESTRY AND CONSERVATIONPROJECT
                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                         EastAsia andPacific Region
                                                   RDV

Date: November 16, 2001                              Team Leader: James J. Douglas
Country ManagerDirector: Klaus Rohland               Sector Director: Mark D.Wilson
Project ID: PO04398                                  Sector(s): AT Forestry
                                                                    -
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)    Theme(s): PovertyReduction
                                                     Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Global Supplemental ID: PO04345                      Team Leader: James J. Douglas
FocalArea: B Biodiversity
             -                                       Sector Managermirector: Mark D. Wilson
Supplement Fully Blended? No                         Sector(s): AT - Forestry
Program Financing Data
 [XI Loan     [ ] Credit      [ ]Grant      [ ]Guarantee       [ ] Other:




BORROWER                                                             0.00           0.00     0.00
[BRD                                                                 6.67          10.69     17.36
BORROWINGAGENCY                                                      4.16           0.77     4.93
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY                                           4.90          12.10     17.00
Total:                                                              15.73          23.56     39.29




Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):




Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 0313112002 Expected closing date:     0613012008

A. Project Development Objective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)

Background:
PapuaNew Guinea (PNG) contains one o f the world's four remaining significant tropical rainforest
wildemesses. These closed natural forests cover 36 million ha, or 77% o f PNG's total landarea. High
altitude cloud and montane forests descendto lowlandmixedforest andmangroves near the coast,
supporting approximately 200 species o f mammals, 15,000-20,000 plant species, 1,500 tree species and
750 bird species (53% o fwhich are endemic and including 90% o fthe world`s Birds-of-Paradise). PNG's
forests are home to the world's largest butterfly,largest orchid, longest lizard, largest pigeon and smallest
parrots. Collectively, all this constitutes one o f the richest reserves o f biodiversity harbored inan intact,
contiguous tropical forest.

Forests provide the basis o f livelihood andcultural life to the 80% o f PapuaNew Guineans who still live in
rural communities. Local clans/tribal groups own essentially all forested landunder customary title. N o
major development activity can occur on a clan's landwithout their consent. However, major social and
economic disruptions have occurred inthe recent past inareas where large areas o f forest were
destroyed--primarily from exploitative, uncontrolled loggingoperations. Insome cases the resultingland
degradation seems permanent.

PNG's constitution and its national policy commit the country to sustainable management o f its forest
resources. However, inthe past two decades sustainability has been compromised by major financial and
operational malfeasance. The 1989 Bamett Commission o f Inquiryinto the Papua New Guinea Forestry
Sector concluded that loggingpractices were out o f control, causing irreversible damage to forests, land,
and local communities; while diminishingbiodiversity andother environmentalvalues. To reversethese
trends, in 1991, the GoPNG initiated the National Forest and ConservationAction Program, inconjunction
with the Bank andother donors. Subsequently, the Forestry Act (1991; amended 1993) was enactedto
facilitate establishment o f a sustainable forest industry.

The question mightwell beposed: why an investment project inforests in PNG now? Untilnow, the Bank
has aided reform o f the forest sector through a series o f grant based activities, andconditionalities attached
to structural adjustment lending. Reforms already implemented include: surveillance o f log exports,
adoption o f new forest sustainability andlogging code guidelines, a taxation structure intendedto provide
improvedresourcerevenue capture for the government and landowners, and enhanced legislative protection
for the independent operations o f the Forestry Board. These reforms provide the enabling framework within
which the current project i s proposed. A number o f the problems that have recently appearedinthe
legislative andregulatory base are being addressedunder structural adjustment conditionality associated
with the present implementation ofthe Govemance Promotion Adjustment Loan (GPAL). For example the
GPAL includes conditions which require: (i)     a review o f applications that are presently beingprocessed for
timberharvesting interms of due diligence and legal compliance; (ii) initial review ofthe forest revenue
                                                                          an
androyalty regime; (iii) to the Forestry Act andRegulations to enhancethe independence of the
                         changes
Forestry Board to introduce regulations for forest clearing associated with the development o f
infrastructure, including roads (see Annex 14) andto ensure non-commercial disclosure. However, it is
apparentthat some major changes at the field level inPNG especially inthe working o fthe relationship
                                                                -
between the logging industry,the Forest Management Authority, and landowners are now needed. These
will needtechnical andfinancial support, inaddition to continued rigorous attentionto policy and
institutional reform.



                                                        - L -

This argument can be better understood ifthe forest resource situation inPNGis put into a broader
political economy context. Very briefly, the essentialdevelopment problem inPNG can be summarized in
two premises:

0   Government delivery o f services -especially to rural communities which inthis country predominate
    inthe population, andwho also are predominantly forest dwellers-has failedto keepupwiththe
    demands made upon it. Poverty levels and related social indicators, as discussedinthe Bank's recent
    poverty report, suggest that a far larger proportion o f the PNGpopulation i s living in substandard
    conditions than should be the case with its level o f average per capita income;

0   The management andmobilization of PNG's main source of wealth -naturalresources-has been
    problematical, andafflicted by major problems o f govemance. This has resultedinhighlevels o f social
    conflict, and environmental damage, associatedwith resource exploitation.
Underthese circumstances, priority mustbe givento developing the probity as well as the capability of
political and bureaucratic institutions, and the transparency o f resource decision-malung. Especially inthe
case o f PNG, where customary title is the predominant form o f ownership o f resources, this must involve
local communities effectively inthe decisions made, andinthe management o f subsequentdevelopments.
At least as muchattentionmustbepaidto reducing the grip of centralizedbureaucracies on resource and
relateddecisions, as to more standard capacity buildingwithin those bureaucracies. Privatization,
reviewing andinsome cases re-inventing incentive structures, facilitating increased local control over what
happensto resources, and developing the capacities o f landowners to participate effectively inthat process,
will all play an important part ina successful outcome, and all are reflected inthe design ofthis project.
For these reasons, the design o f the project i s more complex than a conventional investment incapacity
buildingandtechnical assistancewithin an existing institutional framework: essentially, it is an attempt to
go well beyondthe existingpolicy and institutional framework, which has become dysfunctional. For the
same reason, the components o f the project will be muchmore interdependent that might otherwise be the
case. Environmental assessment o fresource projects cannot proceed, as it has attempted to do inthe past,
independently ofthe process of large forest resource project investment appraisal and approval, and the
project will needto closely tie the environmental assessment activities it will sponsor, to the work it will do
insustainableforest management which has a significant focus onthe nature offorest management
agreements and their monitoring andcontrol. And, major improvements inenvironmental assessment and
sustainable forest management cannot happen inPNGunless landowners become muchbetter informed
about their resource use options, andare then better able to reach equitable and logicalagreement with each
other, via improved landowner decision making processes, which the project will also finance. Finally, a
major ingredient inthese improved decisions will be enhanced access by landowner groups to investment
funds, which could support altematives to large scale and exploitive logging operations which, inthe past,
have often been the only financially significant option offered landowners. The proposed Consewation
TrustFund, to be financedby the GEF and other donors, under this project, i s a mechanism with the
potential to achieve this broadeningo f options and choices for local communities in PNG.




                                                       - 3 -

2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The global environmental objective is to improve management and conservation o f important forest
ecosystems inone o fthe world's most biodiversity-rich regions. Over the long-term, this will maintain
direct andindirect uses (e.g. watershed protection), as well as existence and option values that are
associatedwith functional tropical ecosystems and intact, uniquebiological resources. Expectedproject
outcomes include: (i)  establishment o f a number o f widespread, permanent, community-driven conservation
areas that broadly cover PNG's biodiversity; (ii) maintenance of regenerating natural forest cover in
production and community forest areas; (iii)   conservation reserveswithin logging sites; (iv) establishment
o f legal mechanisms and a Conservation Trust Fund(CTF) able to support landowner-driven conservation
and sustainable-use activities; (v) increased landowner participation in, andbenefits from, design and
operation o f sustainable-useand conservation activities. Indicators for measuring achievements are
presentedinAnnex 1.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A key objective ofthe Forestry and Conservation Projectwill be to strengthen the capacity of local
people, government and non-governmental entities to more sustainably manage and conserve PNG's
forest resources. This should result inthe long-term maintenance o fbiodiversity and an increase inthe
well-being of forest owners. Activities will: (i) promote andimplementmore participatory processes for
landowner involvement inforest management; (ii)     improve environmental practices and sustainability o f
commercial forest harvests; (iii) develop a policy basis for a more ecologically sustainable community
forestry sector basedupon small to mediumscale production; (iv) improve enforcement o f environmental
protection legislation; and (v) implement a strategy andprovide financing to promote land group based
conservation areas. Conservation objectives will be primarilyachieved by empowering landowners to
organize, decide upon and access financing for, small-scale sustaineduse forest development activities that
are coupledto protected area establishment andmaintenance.

Another key objective o f the project will be to improve the quality of life of people living at the local
level. Empowering landowners to better conserve, sustainably utilize andbenefit from biodiversity on their
lands is a national priority for PNG and identifiedas such in several government strategies including the
GEF-fundedcountry study. Key performance indicators for the mid-project review will include whether: (i)
pilot participatory forest decision-making processes are adopted; (ii)required forest management
methodology policies are put inplace; (iii)  demonstration landgroup--based conservation projects are
beingsatisfactorily implemented; and (iv) the Conservation Trust Fund(CTF) is operating effectively. End
o f project implementationindicators will primarilyevaluate whether participatory processes andland
group-based conservation are expanding and whether forestry management activities have become more
environmentally sustainable. Independent inspection o f forest harvest activities will monitor improvements
inforest harvest. Conservation goals will be measuredbytrends inproject numbers,the number of
landowners and landowner groups designating their lands as conservation areas, andthe area of coverage
o f designatedprotected area landsunder conservation management.

The Bank'sapproach to forests inPNGmust deal as comprehensively as possible with major environmental
and social objectives; since forests are such an important economic, social and cultural element o f the
nation. The project establishes mechanisms and processes to allow considered forest management and
conservation decisions to be made by government andlandowners. Highlyparticipatory andconsultative
processes are required. Major design implications for the project result from these observations.
Objectives o fthis scale andcomplexity will demand an adaptive management approach, which i s
innovative and evolutionary. Provided a learningapproach i s taken, project outcomes will have impacts



                                                      - 4 -

that reach far beyondroutine forest objectives-including     making progress inaddressing lack o f
Government service delivery to a largely traditional clan-based society, one factor which has caused
uncontrolled and destructive forest resource exploitation. Critical choices will need to be made, at various
points, to ensure that the basic objectives are beingpursued-ven      ifthis requires re-definingactivities.
Supervision andmonitoring o f this project will need to keep inmindthe reality o f this process.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19590-PNG Date of latest CAS discussion: December 9, 1999

The overarchinggoal ofthe PNGCAS is to support a concerted effort to reduce poverty andimprove the
quality o f life o f PapuaNew Guineans. The primary objective for this CAS period i s to assist PNG in
strengthening the foundation for a capable state that can be responsive to its people by addressing human
and economic development challenges ina transparent and accountable manner. The two basic strategies
for achievement o f these goals are improvements inthe govemance framework for sustainable development,
andenhancedrural development. The specific strategy for environment, forestry and conservation within
these broad approaches is to follow up policy, regulatory andmonitoring reforms introduced under Bank
technical assistanceandadjustment measuresinrecent years with field based investments aimed at
enhancing the environmental sustainability o f PNG's forest goods and services, and the benefits o f forests
to the resource owners.

la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
PNGratifiedthe Convention on BiologicalDiversity in 1993. The project i s consistent with the GEF
Operational Strategy, particularly the Operational Program on Forest Ecosystems. It focuses on in situ
conservation inone o f the world's largest remaining tracts o f rain forests, an arearich in species and
endemics, that has been identifiedas one o f the 200 most important ecoregions globally. The project
supports conservation and sustainable use, andmore equitable sharing o fbenefits, by improving forest
management, strengthening independent monitoring andproviding resources to allow areas o f high
biodiversity to be set aside as protected areas. It will provide local landowners with the information, skills
andresourcesto choose altemative development options that encourage biodiversity conservation.
Empowering landowners to conserve, sustainably utilize and benefit from biodiversity on their lands i s a
PNGnational priority andidentified as such in several government strategies including the GEF-hded
country study. The project i s consistent with Conference o f the Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity
(COP) guidance as it focuses on conservation and sustainable use o f critical ecosystems and threatened
endemic species and supports the active involvement o f local communities as managersand beneficiaries o f
better forest management. Itresponds to COP3 guidance by promotingconservation andsustainable use
through capacity building, economic incentives andaltemative livelihood opportunities for local
communities; andby incorporating biodiversity issues andimproving management inthe forestry sector. In
line with COP4 guidance the project takes an ecosystem approach to maximize biodiversity conservation in
a range o fforest habitats that will span altitudinal gradients and represent differentmanagement regimes.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
Important forest sector issues considered inthe project design include:

0   Virtually all PNG forested land i s under customary tenure. Due to a number o f constraints, many
    forest landowners see the sale of these resources as the only way to improve living standards.




                                                       - 5 -

    Over the last decade, foreign-owned and often poorly managed industrial-scale logging, basedupon
    raw log exports, has been virtually the only forest management related activities pursuedinthe
    country.
    Inadequacies ingovernment forest management infrastructure still hamper effective forest monitoring
    and enforcement efforts, and cause continuing irregularities inthe planning, granting and operation o f
    many commercial forest timber areas. The Forest Act and supporting mechanisms are at times viewed
    as an obstacle, rather than a process to ensure equitable and sustainable allocation and implementation
    o f commercial logging operations.
    Although the downturn inAsian timber markets has adversely affected production o f forestry, it i s
    slowly recovering. Community-based, sustainable forest management efforts are, however, increasing.
    Yet the GoPNGhas not fully formulated a coherent strategy to support a broader forest management
    sector with community-based small- andmedium-scale forest development.
    Environmental assessment and monitoring, to ensure adequate forest resource protection and
    environmentalmanagement, remains largelyunrealized, hamperedby lack o f capacity andan
    ambiguous legislative andregulatoryregime for screening andmonitoring of forest development
    activities.
    The existingprotectedareanetwork does not cover PNG's full diversity ofhabitats. PNG lacks a
    policy andinstitutional framework to support landowner conservation initiatives and conservation areas
    on privately-owned clan lands.

Important government strategy issues that were considered inthe project design include:

    The 1994review o f theNational Forestry and ConservationAction Program(NFCAP) recommended
    an increased focus on landowner-targeted mechanisms to pursue sustainable forestry and conservation.
    Under the World Bank's 1995 Economic Recovery Program (ERP) loan, the GoPNG solidified its
    commitment to sustainable forestry.
    In 1995,the Forest Authority (FA) adopted (a) a Logging Code ofPractice designedto minimize
    environmental disturbance and (b) a new forest permit systemto replace the fragmented and
    complicated set o f individualtimber agreements.
    GoPNG i s reexamining its forest development strategy to ensure more equitable sharing o fbenefits
    among landowners, including having recently completed contracted studies on landowner benefits and
    domestic processing. The FA has requested World Bank assistance inresponding to the downturn in
    commercial forestry by providing assistanceinbroadening the type and scope o f forest management
    activities, including capitalizing on the benefits o f standingforests. GoPNG has continuedto make
    improved forest management an important part o f its overall development strategy.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A primary focus ofthe project is to support mechanisms which allow landholders to makemore informed,
sustainable decisions regarding forest usage, selecting from a broad range o f options, including smaller
scale, sustainable community forest operations. A second focus i s to improve the performance o f existing
commercial forest operations by creating incentives and field capabilities to ensure that operators are
adhering to existing forest legislation. A thirdpriority will be to implement a nation-wide conservation area
program and sustained-use strategy by creating the necessary legal andfinancial frameworks, and
generating investment inconservation-based alternatives to large-scale logging. Environmental assessment
andmonitoring will be strengthenedthrough development of institutional andcommunity-based mandates
andcapability for effective environmental assessment andmonitoring.




                                                      - 6 -

Two major strategic decisions were made in conceptualizing this project:

(i)      Major conditionality to support implementation o f the project was included and implemented under
         the framework o f the Bank's first structural adjustment loan, the Economic Recovery Program.
         Additional measureshave been included inthe Govemance Promotion Adjustment Loan, and
         within conditionality for this project.

(ii)     Participatory and non-governmental mechanisms, as well as more traditional government agency
         institution buildingwere chosen as the means o f pursuing sustained forest uses and forest
         conservation. This broader approach allows the project to address crosscutting issues o f poverty
         alleviation andparticipationmore effectively, and recognizes the needto better balance larger and
         smaller scale forest operations. Development o f landowner-based institutions and mechanisms, and
         a Conservation Trust Fund(managed and financed independent o f government) will be key project
         elements.


C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has four major components, which are outlined below Component 1will be financed inparallel
by IBRDand GEF; component 2 by the GEF alone; component 3 by IBRDalone, andcomponent 4 in
parallel by IBRD and GEF.

Component 1:Landowner Forest Decision-Making-A                process will be developed andimplemented
which allows landowners to become more aware of options for use o f their forests, and to pursue their
choice. The project establishesa Landowner Decision and Organization Unit (LDOU) which will cany out
education campaigns regardingforest management andconservation, providinginformationwhich
landowners may consider to make more informed forest utilization decisions. Legal mechanisms will be
established to give recognition andprotection to local clan land and forest use decisions. Landowner
capacity to select appropriate and sustainable forest operations (and to benefit equitably from those
choices) will be developed. Awareness and capability to pursueconservation-based activities inplace o f
extractive activities will be developed. There will be three sub-components:

(i)      Development Options Study-Consultative activities will be fielded to improve landowner access
         to information anddlscussions o f development options    etoany       land-use decisions, based on a
         designthat optimally involves all stakeholders indevelopment option consideration and
         decision-making. A Development Option Study (DOS) activity by LDOU ina given forest area
         will involve lengthy participatory discussions andeducation activities regarding forest management
         andconservation. Should landowners desire, DOS would continue by helpingto facilitate forest
         management arrangements,cany out initial environmentalplanning, provide linkages to technical
         expertise; and, through inputsunder this project's other components, implement conservation
         projects andor forest management activities o f various types and scales.

(ii)     Strengthening Landowner Representative Mechanism-Improved                processes and systems for
         landowner representation and organizationto allow improved resource decision-making will be
         developed andimplemented. A major input will be a proposed LandGroup Summit to share and
         evaluate experiences and facilitate discussion o f technical and investment needs. Major efforts will
        be made to produce anddisseminate informational products regarding various options for


                                                      - 7 -

         landowner organizational structures. Improvedlandowner organizational capacity will support the
         landowner component and overall project implementation.

(iii)    Land-Group BasedConservationandResourceManagementAreas-The                       project through the
         LDOU will assist policy and legislative development to ensure the legal basis for
         community-initiated Conservation Management Areas (CMAs) that link small-scale ecologically
         sustainable development activities with explicit habitat protection. Landowner initiated
         conservation areas on customary land will be encouraged and several C M A areas will be
         established by the LDOU with OEC. Project activities include developing standards for managing
         CMAs, developing appropriate institutional capacity within OEC to assist groups to establish
         CMAs, and assisting communities to access financing to support their conservation activities.

Component2: ConservationTrust Fund- With GEF support, a ConservationTrust Fund(CTF) will
be established, the objective o f which is to promote the conservation o f forest biologicaldiversity o f global
significance. The CTF will achieve this objective by providing an accessible and sustainable in-country
source o f &ding for conservation-oriented forest resource use options inforest areas o f highbiodiversity
value. The ultimate goal i s to develop a financing mechanism that can support a comprehensive range o f
national conservation activities (including both forest and marine). It is intendedthat the CTF should
become an endowment fund that will attract resources from a variety o f sources andwhose investment
eamings will be usedto finance conservation-oriented sustainable development initiatives. Inthe context o f
this project, the CTF will support implementthe Landowner Forest Decision-Making Component by
providing a source o f funds to support landowners who are committed to pursuingconservation-orientated
resource use options inforest areas o f highbiodiversity value, as an alternative to less
conservation-friendly options, such as commercial logging. The Fundwill be a non-government entity that
i s govemed by a multi-stakeholder Management Board, which will supervise the appointment and activities
of a professionalManagement Unit. Fundingsupport will focus at the landowner and IncorporatedLand
Group (ILG) levels, usingNGOs as well as government agencies as service providers to support
conservation andeffective stewardship of forest resources. Duringits Commencement Phase, and
continuing through the plannedEndowment Phase, the CTF Board andmanagement staff will develop and
implement an aggressive fund mobilization strategy to obtain concrete additional commitments for
co-financing both the establishment o f the endowment andits capital growth (Annex 12 contains further
CTF designdetails).

The CTF will be developed inthree activity phases: a preliminary Establishment Phase, a three-year
Commencement Phase; and; ifthis is seen to be successful and mobilizes substantial capital contributions,
an Endowment Phase. Substantial progress inestablishing the CTF as a legal entity and organizational
reality has already beenmade during project preparation. Specifically: (i)    the CTF has beenformally
incorporatedandlegally registered inPNG as a Trust; (ii)      the Board (governing body) has been
established; (iii)the Operational Manualhasbeen developed which defines/clarifies essentialprocedures
andoperational criteria; and(iv) cooperative working relationships with key governmentalbodies have
beeninitiated. The CTF's three operational phases are as follows:


(i)      Establishment-Further       activities to establish andlaunch the CTF programwill benefit from the
         full support ofthe PMU. Activities duringthis phasewill include: contracting for renovation and
         improvement o f the CTF offices; establishment o f these offices; procurement o f vehicles,
         computers, office equipment and furnishings; and employment o f an intemational organization as
         Trust FundAdvisor and other short term technical assistance required to commence the
         commencement phase activities outlined below. Pre-project funding will be usedto initiate these



                                                       - 8 -

         activities prior to project effectiveness.

(ii)     Commencement-The CTF program o fbiodiversity conservation grant-malung will be launched
         during this phase. The CTF will initially finance a portfolio o fbiodiversity conservation-oriented
         demonstration project grants on a sinking-fundbasis. To do this, the CTF Boardwill hire qualified
         staff and contract the technical support required to professionally review and approve conservation
         grant applications; develop andadopt an investmentmanagement plan, andselect investment
         managers; andestablish financial audit and control systems to international standards. Project
         selection criteria have been adopted by the CTF Steering Committee andincorporatedinto an
         Operations Manual that has beenreviewed and approved by the Bank. The Fundwill support
         projects whose primary goal is to conserve forest biodiversity of global significance and that also
         offer sustainable, long-term development benefits that will motivate the local people not to engage
         inunsustainable resource exploitation, particularly industrial-scale logging. Itwill also seek
         projects that adopt innovative approaches to conservation and demonstrate potentially replicable
         models.

(iii)    Endowment-The GEF will help to launch the CTF's endowment phaseby making a capital
         contribution o f upto $10million to the endowment fund ifthe following performance benchmarks
         have been achieved at the end o f the Commencement Phase: (a) a minimumo f 1:1match for GEF
         endowment funds inrelation to funds contributed or pledges to the CTF inwritten commitments
         from other donors; (b) an independent evaluation o f the sub-projects fundedduring the
         Commencement Phase confirms that, overall, they are likely to promote the conservation o f forest
         biodiversity o f global significance and are probably sustainable. This evaluation will be provided
         to the GEF Secretariat prior to conditioned released o f funds for the Endowment Phase; (c) the
         evaluation confirms that the CTF project identification, grant award and fund raising systems are
         all performing efficiently; and (d) all financial audits o f CTF operations are clear and acceptable.

The CTF's investment strategy inthe Endowment Phase will be significantly shapedby lessons learned
duringthe Commencement Phase. The FundManagement Unit,with support from technical advisors as
appropriate, will carry out a range o f administrative activities to support the grant-making programs. The
unitwill develop a strong overallmonitoringand evaluationscheme for the program, buildmonitoring
activities into each grant, monitor Fundfinancial management through an annual audit that will meet
international standards, monitor compliance with donor informationand reporting requirements; and
prepare and disseminate annual progress and lessons learned reports that document monitoring and
evaluationresults. The Boardwill receive andreview periodic reports on the use o f GEF funds to ensure
that the GEF funds and earnings are supporting only GEF-eligible activities. Costs during the
Commencement Phasewill be met from GEF grant assistance,but through the Endowment Phase will
increasingly be paid for by investment income from the endowment.

Conservation Trust Fund Co-financing Strategy. Providedthe benchmarks for establishing the
endowment fund are met, the GEF will contribute to the endowment on a dollar-for-dollar basis with other
grant funds, up to a maximumamount o f USSlO million. The objective o f the CTF's initial fund-raising
strategy during the Commencement Phase will be to mobilize sufficient capital to trigger the entire GEF
commitment, or at least a significant share o f it. This will provide sufficient capital to finance a
Conservation grant-making program that will sustainably conserve substantial forest areas o f global
significance entirely from the fund's interest eamings and capital appreciation. Based on an initial review
o f nation-wide conservation needs andpotential, and the associated resource requirements, the CTF's
eventual target i s an endowment o f approximately US$30 million. Preliminary discussions with potential
endowment co-financiers have generated a potential list o f sources: PNG Government andprivate sector;


                                                      - 9 -

other public sources (e.g., bilateral and multilateral donor agencies); other internationaldonor agencies; and
other innovative funding sources, such as carbon sequestration initiatives and environmental levies.
However, these funds are unlikelyto be contributeduntil after the CTF i s functioning and has a track
record o f successful project implementation. For this reason no co-financing i s shown against this
component inthe project cost table below.

Component 3: Sustainable Forest Management-The               Sustainable Forest Management component will
augment the efforts o f the FA and other institutions inpursuit o f sustainable management o f PapuaNew
Guinea's forests. The component will support institutional reform and technical assistanceto improve
capacity within FA for forest management planningand implementation, as well as for monitoringo f forest
operations. Sanctions, incentives and assistancewill be provided to promote sustainedyield forest
management and conservation practices at sites that currently are being commercially managed for timber
production. The project will develop improvedregulations, as well as monitoringandenforcement
capability associatedwith the incorporation o f enhancedconservation and environmental guidelines into
new logging operations. Inaddition, efforts will be made to broaden the focus of forest management
activities to include more diversity inmanagement regimes andprocessing. Technical, legislative and
policy support will be provided to foster community involvement in sustainable and environmentally sound
forestry operations. Specific activities under this component will include:

(9       Improved Forest Operations, Inspection and Monitoring-            Improvedperformance by
         industrial-scale selective logging operations will be encouraged by implementingmeasuresto
         ensure full compliance with the logging code o f practice and forest legislation andregulations, and
         by promoting improvedpractices by the private sector andlocal clans. Existing large scale logging
         operations will be reviewed during the course o f the project, for compliance with the Forestry Act
         andregulations, the logging code ofpractice, andother agreements made. This will include the
         introduction o f incentives and sanctions as well as assistance inlogging operations management
         training. An assessment will be made o f the system o f monitoring andenforcement o f the codes
         andregulations relatedto logging, and efforts made to ensure such systems are made more
         effective and cost efficient. FA will be assistedinensuringthat management andtenderingo fnew
         forestry projects fully complies with procedures and regulations established inthe Forestry Act and
         all gazetted forestry and environmentallegislation and regulations. The current system o f forest
         royalties, charges and levies will continue to be reviewed andrecommendations made on
         rationalizingthese, as well as a mechanism for collecting andapportioning such revenues more
         equitably between landowners, NFS andthe Ministryfor Treasury.

(ii) ForestManagementPlanning-                GIS data exchange and availability for the purpose o f assessing
         forest and land suitability for various forest management and conservation regimes (including
         conservation o f biodiversity) will be improved. GIS capability will be upgraded inOEC, while
         FA'Scapacity to integrate such environment andconservation data into forest management will be
         enhanced. National forest management planning capacity at both the national andproject site levels
         will be improved; while continuing research into improving forest management, cut control and
         silvicultural practices will be supported. These planningexercises will be linkedto revision o fthe
         National Forest Plan andthe National Forest Development Guidelines.


(iii) Post-HarvestForestManagementandPlantations-Natural                   production forest management will
         be improved by expanding viable management prescriptions andpost harvest activities that attempt
         to more adequately maintain the forest's production as well as ecological potential. Initially this
         sub-component will determine the viability o f natural regeneration within PNG. Assuming a



                                                      - 1 0 -

         reasonable degree o f viability, the sub-component will then buildon and scale upnatural forest
         regeneration activities, supporting ongoing research, and determining the requiredpre- and
         post-harvesting prescriptions required to promote such regeneration. The aim is that, ultimately,
         responsibility for effective regeneration will be delegatedto logging companies, with landowner
         participation, as appropriate. Feasibility work will be undertaken to determine conditions necessary
         to encourage plantation development, not as a substitute for long-term natural forest management,
         but as an option for already degraded forest landsandto helpmaintain or even increase forest
         production. Incentives requiredto attract investors will be identified

Component4: EnvironmentalAssessment andMonitoring. This component will provide technical
assistancewithin the Office o f Environment and Conservation to develop andimplement rigorous
assessment andmonitoring methodologies and operational systems under the new environmental regulatory
framework. Usingthe new Environment Act, legal, policy and administrative infrastructure will be
institutionalized. A critical feature o f the new legislation is the use o f statutory Environment Policies,
which are a legally bindinginstrument, like a regulation. Such EnvironmentalPolicies for any component
o f the environment (e.g. water, air, marine), any use o f the environment (e.g. forestry) or any geographical
sector (e.g. a particular catchment or region) provide, among other things, an independent,statutory
constraint on the discretion o f decisionmakers about the approval o f new projects. Experienced
environmental assessment and enforcement professionals will assist inthe implementation o f the
environmentalmanagement systeminthe forestry sector, including undertaking proper assessment o f
proposed projects and setting permit conditions for new projects. All projects will be subject to monitoring
andenforcement oftheir compliance with conditions. Where necessary, more appropriate environmental
conditions for operation o f existingprojects (approved under existing legislation) will be introduced.
Support will also be provided to develop andtest a methodology by which communities can participate in
environmentalmonitoring. Activities under this component will focus on `on ground' activities, while
recognizing that effective and sustainable change inenvironmental assessment and monitoringpractice can
only be achieved on the basis o f adequate systems that facilitate these new approaches being
institutionalized.

(i)      EnvironmentalAssessment, MonitoringandRegulation-Technical                    assistance will promote
         institutional capacity-building within OEC to: (a) ensure that an adequate legal and policy basis
         exists for consistent and rigorous environmental assessment, and the setting o f comprehensive
         environmental permit conditions, (b) undertake outreach to inform the community and stakeholders
         o f the environmentalprotection requirements inrelation to forestry development projects, (c) deal
         with applications for new permits, and upgrade conditions o f existingpermits, (d)undertake
         appropriate field-based monitoringand enforcement o f all projects, (e) provide the basis for
         assessment andissue o fpermits, andmonitoringand enforcement in other environmentally
         impacting industries, and (0develop a user pays fee system. Technical assistance andfollow-up
         support will be provided to develop a comprehensive suite o f supporting policies, regulations,
         guidelines anddirectives under the Environment Act to regulate the forest sector (including projects
         converting forest to agricultural use or plantation). Environmental assessmentand regulation
         specialists will provide assistanceinestablishmg and implementing the new system o f assessment,
         permittingandmonitoring and enforcement. Assistance will be providedinthe preparation of
         training materials and development o f a training capacity within OEC.




                                                      - 11 -

(ii)     EnvironmentalMonitoringby Local Communities-This activity will augment GoPNG
         activities by developing a basis on which community membersliving within conservation areas and
         sustainable forest concession projects can participate inenvironmentalmonitoring. The capacity
         o f OEC to coordinate these activities andto liaise appropriately with stakeholders inthe process
         will be developed. Specialist assistancewill beprovidedto develop the methodology and materials
         to undertake pilot training o f community monitors. The project will support the implementation
         and evaluation o f pilot programs and the incorporation o f lessons from evaluation into program
         design. Emphasis will be placed on forest management issuesthat are of concern to local
         communities andon providingtraining to trainers within government agencies andNGOs.




           Component               I         Sector                   1                                        1
Landowner Forest                     Institutional
Decision-Making                      Development
                                                                                           1        1
Sustainable Forest Management        Forestry
Enviromental Assessment and          Environmental
Monitoring                           Institutions
                                                                                                1.1
       Global Components
Conservation Trust Fund            I Environmental              15.00   31.:                            15.00      81.:
                                                                                ~


                                     Institutions
             Total Project Costs                               39.12    99.6        17.19      99.0     17.00     100.0
                    Front-end fee                               0.17                 0.17
                                                                                       0.0               0.00
      Total Financing Required                                 39.29   100.0        17.36     100.0     17.00     100.0


GEF Incremental Cost. Incremental costs for the proposed conservation activities are estimated at US$17.00
million which would be divided into 2 CTF project phases: $6.00 million, $11.OO million. GEF support would be
targeted to the following components:
1) The landowner decisionmaking component will empower landowners to effectively and collectively consider
multiple development options. GEF activities will strengthen the legal means for landowners to place lands under
protected area status, provide legal assistance to landowners choosing the conservation and sustainable-use route
and contribute landowner awareness and education inputs in support o f the proposed new Conservation Trust
Fund, Expenditures of US$l.O ineach phase are neededto cover incremental costs associated with making
conservation more accessible to PNG landowners.
2) As noted under the description o f Component 2 above, it is expected that US$15 million from the GEF for the
CTFwill be supplementedby co-financing to support a financing mechanism to respondto landowner initiated
conservation and preservation proposals. The GEF funds will be made available intwo tranches: US$5 million at
project effectiveness, to support the inception o f the CTF, and some initial grants from it; and US$lO million to
finance the endowment fund which will support the CTF on a long term basis, from year 4 o f the project onwards.
This second tranche will be contingent upon successful inception and operation o f the fund, and upon commitment
of other donors to a capitalization stage.

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:

The project will directly support major fiscal and other reforms which have been introducedinto the forest
sector inrecent years, those introduced underreforms included those associatedwith the Governace
Promotion Adjustment Loan, including:




                                                         - 1 2 -

        export tax, landowner royalty andproject development levies, all designedto extract economic rent
        from utilizationo f the forest resource, andto distribute it effectively to landowners. These have
        been andcontinue to be developed, introduced into law, and implemented;
        development andmaintenance o f rigorous, transparent mechanisms for allocating timber licenses
        and permits to logging operators and conversion activities   - and  the capacity ofthe forest agency to
        manage and enforce these. Such mechanisms have beenmajor goals o f recent legislative,
        institutional and management reforms inPNG. Additional reinforcements will be introduced inthis
        project;
        improved standardso fmanagement inforest operations under the PNG Logging Code o f Practice,
        andimprovedcapacity to monitor andenforce implementation o fthese standards;
        more effective landowner involvement in selecting options for resource development, ensuring that
        landowners benefit from the use o f their resources. GoPNG has beenactively involvedinthis area,
        introducing fiscal measures, institutional decentralization and new local or landgroup level
        institutional arrangements. The project will support these activities;
        better implementation of intemational conventions relating to biodiversity conservation and
        environmentalmanagement conventions to which GoPNG is a signatory. Achieving conservation
        through the establishment of traditional, largeprotected area approaches has been historically
        difficult inPNG due to highlyfragmented landownership. The project will enhance the capacity
        o f OEC to monitor and control the environmental outcomes o f large-scale resource projects. It will
        also support clandland groups who wish to pursue conservation-based activities intheir local
        areas.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The project will:

(i)     maximize both the level, and long-term sustainability, o f revenues flowing to landholders and to
        GoPNG from forest management;

(ii)    protect local andnational environmental values, including soil and water quality, landand forest
        productivity;

(iii)   maintain development options from an intact and regenerating natural resource base; and

(iv)    provide global benefits from biodiversity protection and carbon sequestration, arising from
        increased options for conservation investments.

The project's primary target populationis forest landowners representing approximately two-thirds of
PNG's population. A portion o f this group, whose forests have already been logged out ina way that
makes forest recovery unlikely,will not be materially assistedby forest management aspects of the project.


4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
ProjectOversight
Government, at negotiations, would agree to create and staff a semi-autonomous Project Oversight
Committee (POC) that would have responsibility for planningand directing project implementation andfor
achieving development objectives o f the project. The Ministero f Planning andMonitoring would appoint
ten members to the POC comprised of representatives from major line ministries and from NGOs; LDOU
andthe CTF. The POC would meet, at minimum, quarterly. The POC will essentially be the same
committee as the NFCAP Steering Committee and, as such, will also play a key role incoordinating



                                                    - 13-

forestry programs among donors and government. Establishment o f the POC is a condition o f effectiveness.
The Ministerfor Planning would, as a condition o fnegotiations, appoint a Project Manager (PM), familiar
with the Forest Sector inPNG, as head o fthe PMU. The PMU, administratively, would be attached to the
Departmento fPlanning and would serve as Secretariat o fthe POC. The POC will initially be chairedby
an officer o f the Department o f Prime Minister and NEC to facillitate inter-departmental coordination.The
P M would be responsible for managing the day-to-day activities o f the P M U and, with qualified staff,
would be authorized to: open and operate bank accounts; issue tender invitations; receive and evaluate
tenders; award contracts, sign contracts, and make contract payments. The PM, and the P M U staff, would
be responsible for project planning, monitoring and reporting; procurement; plus contracting technical
assistance andtraining inputs basedupon the needs and requirementso f the project IAs.With exception o f
procurement using Shopping Procedures, the P M Uwould manage procurement on behalf o f the IAs.

Inaddition to the PM, staffing ofthe PMUwould consist of six to seven full-timetechnicaland support
staff, with additional part time staff as needed. The P Mand other key staff, including an Accountant and
a Procurement Specialist, would be employed as soon as possible usingretroactive financing. A
Component Manager (CM) would be appointed ineach IA to prepare annual work plans and to maintain
linkage with the P M Uthroughjoint working group meetings that would include other agencies involved. A
first-year P M U and IA staffingpattern would be preparedby government andpresented at negotiations for
Bank approval. All GEF funded establishment activities for the Conservation Trust Fund, including
technical assistance, would be managed by the P M U until such time as Endowment Fundshave beenmade
available.

ImplementingAgencies
         Landowner ForestDecisionMaking-A             small, consultancy-based Landowner Decision and
         OrganizationUnit (LDOU) will be established to manage implementation o f this. It will have clear
         linkages to other relevant governmental bodies includingthe Department o f Provincial andLocal
         Level Government Affirs, the Department o fLands andPhysical Planning, FA and OEC. Inthe
         early stages o fthe project it will be formally attached to a suitable government deparhnent, which
         will facillitate ongoing landowner support beyondproject closing.
         Conservation Trust Fund- The Conservation Trust Fundwill be independento f govemment and,
         after an initial period o f support and financial management, relatively independent o f the project
         Management Unit for the FCP as well. The CTF Board o f Directors will a h n i s t e r a management
         structure for the CTF Component. This Board, elected in 1999by a procedure laid down inthe
         articles defining the CTF, i s the governing body o f the Trustee Company. Links to Government,
         through the OEC Minister andMinister for Finance, will be established, likely by the presence o f a
         representative from these departments on the interim board. The proposed financing mechanism
         will initially operate as a sinking fund anddevelop into an endowment-based fund.
         Sustainable Forest Management-Implementation          o f the forest management component o f the
         project will be managed directly through the FA. Certainpolicy and legislative matters will be
         handled through the office o f the Managing Director o f the Authority, while responsibility for
         technical management will be through the General Manager, who controls operations. Formal
         links will be maintained with OEC regarding the environmental aspects o f the component.

        EnvironmentalAssessment andMonitoring-strengthening              o f environmental regulatory capacity
        will bemanaged within the OEC andbe supportedby enactment ofnew environmentalprotection
         legislationprepared with AusAID assistance.




                                                      - 1 4 -

Accounting,ReportingandAuditing

An assessment of financial management systemof implementing agencies was carried out duringthe
appraisal (see Annex 6). The assessment concluded that implementing agencies lack appropriate financial
management system and requiredskills. Additionally, the overall control environment is very weak. An
action planto improve financial management system for the project has been developed. An appropriate
accounting andreporting system is beingdeveloped to meet the World Bank requirements.It i s expected
that ,once the actionplanto establish the project financial management system is completed, the system
will addressweaknessesidentified inthe assessment andfiduciary riskrelatedto this project will be
manageable. An independent accounting firmwill be engagedto provide end-of-month financial
management support. The project accounts and financial reporting will be prepared inaccordancewith
standards acceptable to the Bank. Initially, the traditional SOE disbursement procedures will be used.
However, within a year from project effectiveness date, a determination will be made on adaptation o f the
PMR-based disbursement approach.

The P M U would be responsible for keeping financial records andexpenditures incurred for different
components o f the project, as well as preparing quarterly progress reports. Each implementing agency
would be responsible for preparingmonthly work progress reports. The project financial statementswill be
audited by an independent accounting firm acceptableto the Bank within six months after the endo f each
fiscal year.

An EnhancedSupervisionApproach, and a Clear Exit Strategy
Much o f the peer advice receivedfor this project strongly recommended that, given the highrisk
environment inwhich this project i s to be implemented, it requires intensive supervision, beyond that
requiredfor conventionalinvestment operations, particularly duringthe first three years ofthe project
implementationperiod.
Inresponseto this advice, a specific annex is appendedto this ProjectAppraisal Document (Annex 17)
outlining an enhancedbudget for supervision, to deal with the risks under implementation. This annex
details specific milestones, priority areas for supervision, a supervisionplan, and proposals for the use o f
trust finds and cooperative arrangements with other donors to implement enhanced supervision. It further
recommends that some specific mentionneedsto be made o f the resources that the project will provide to
enhance environmental assessment and monitoringand evaluation inthis area. It also proposes that the
Bankneeds to go beyondconventional Bankpractice, by definingan exit strategy with trigger points and
indicators specified for this project, inview o f the highrisks associatedwith its implementation.
The exit strategy is basedheavily around outcomes o f a midtermreview (which is timed to occur
immediately before the key large GEF disbursement for this project that would initiate the endowment
phase o f the Conservation Trust Fundi s due).
These supervision and exit strategy issueshave beenbrought to the attention of EAPmanagement, and the
budgetary implications are fully understood inEAP.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection:

(i)      A project design focusing exclusively on institutionbuildinginthe FA and OEC was
         considered for reasons o f simplicity o f institutional arrangements, but rejected because there is
         not yet sufficient momentum inthe area o f landholder initiative andinvolvement to rely on



                                                       - 15-

       these traditional agencies to complete the process.

(ii) Amuchbroaderproject,encompassingnaturalresourcesmanagementasawhole,was
       considered - with forestry as the lead-off component, to be followedby interventions in
       fisheries and marine areas, and then possibly mining. It i s likely that investments inthese areas
       will be considered by the Bank once enough is known about the priorities andissues for these
       sectors.

(iii) Thelackofanongoingandreliablesourceoffundingtosupportbiodiversityconservationin
       PNGhas been a major obstacle to achieving conservation objectives. One-off project funding
       was considered but would not meet the recurrent cost needs of engaging (and buildingcapacity
       among) landowners to achieve long-term forest biodiversity conservation and ecologically
       sustainable forest management.


2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                     Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                                Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-fjnancec projectsonly)
                                                                                 Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                                     Progress(IP)   Objective (DO)

Forest Sector Adjustment                   Economic Recovery Program                   S               S
                                           Loan.
Forest Sector Adjustment                   Governance Promotion                        S               S
                                           (Effective mid 2000).
3ther development agencies
European Union                             SGS Forestry Export
                                           MonitoringProject. (Completed
                                           end 1999).
                                           Sustainable Community
                                           Forestry Project (Second Phase
                                           implementedmid2000).
GTZ                                        Landowner Awareness Project
                                           (completed).
UNDP/GEF                                   IntegratedConservation and
                                           Development Project (recently
                                           completed).
UNDP                                       Capacity 21 Project.
AusAID                                     Forestry HRDProject (Bridging
                                           financing to 2001, when new
                                           forestry project due to start).
AusAID                                     DEC Institutional Strengthening
                                           Exercise (recently completed,
                                           with possible further assistance
                                           undernew forestry project).
JIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), k '(Highly Unsatis




                                                     - 16-

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
As discussedinSection A (Project Development Objectives) at more length,the essential lesson of
experience with resource mobilization and landowner welfare inPNGhas beenthat systems based on
conventional centralized bureaucracies,negotiating agreements on resource use with large companies,
has not ingeneral servedthe interest o f the owners o f those resources - clan groups - well inPNG. To
succeed inimprovingthe delivery o f services and the basic economic wellbeing o f clans, systems o f
decision making andnegotiation mustbe introducedwhich involve local communities early inthe
process, which give themthe skills andknowledge they needto make the best decisions, andwhich
buildtruly representative structures within landowner communities for participation indecisions andin
the subsequent management o f the resource.

Valuable lessons are available from the 1988-89 BarnettInquiryinto forestry, from Bank execution o f
forestry and biodiversity activities under trust funds (including NFCAP), from the experience with the
Economic Recovery Loan, from experiences underthe UNDP-GEF ICAD project, from recent
landowner decisions made inrelation to the oil andgas industry, andfrom NGO-implemented
conservation and sustainableuse projects. These lessons, and the proposed measuresto be taken under
the projects to deal with them, can be summarized as follows:

        Prior experience demonstrates that landowners have been excluded from full participationin
        the management decision-making processconcerningnaturalresourcesthey own anddirectly
        depend upon. The project will buildlandholders' capacity to makemore informed decisions
        regardingresource use, support their ability to choose from multipleforest management options
        including conservation and sustainable-use o fbiodiversity, andto implementtheir choices.

        The informal nature of structures to represent landowner interests inproject decision-making
        often disenfranchises the majority o f community members. More transparent community
        representation mechanisms will be promoted through the use o f ILGs.

        A strong preoccupation inthe MinistryofForestry with formalrevenue collection and
        application o f a complicated regulatory framework has divertedinstitutional attention from
        achieving sustainable forest management. The project will follow up specifically on measures
        aimed at sustainability in community-basedas well as industrial forestry activities.

        There are many stakeholders and agendas inthe PNG forests sector. Emphasis needsto be
        givento (a) consensusbuilding, (b) to forest conservation as a component o f sustainable forest
        management, and (c) to realistic alternative development options. This project's critical inputs
        capitalize upon customary landownership, expansive intact forests and rising environmental
        awareness within PNG.

        The GEFEvaluation of Experience with Conservation TrustFunds identifies certain key
        conditions associatedwith trust fund success, including internal and external factors that
        contribute to a fund's ability to become a viable institution and achieve its mission. PNGs
        CTF, at this early planning phase, meets a "critical mass" o f these conditions, particularly the
        following:

                 The existence of a valuable, globally significant biodiversity resource whose
                 conservation i s politically, technically, economically, and socially feasible. The
                 biodiversity conservation issue to be addressedrequires a long-term commitment.


                                                      - 17  -

                  There is active govemment support for creating a mixed, public-private sector
                  mechanism that will function beyonddirect govemment control.
                  There i s a critical mass o fpeople from different sectors of society who can work
                  together, irrespective o f their diverse approachesto biodiversity conservation and
                  sustainable development.
                  There is abasic fabric of legal andfinancial practices and supporting institutions
                  (including banking, auditing and contracting) inwhich people have confidence.
                  A legal framework exists for establishing atrust fund.
                   A broad set o f stakeholdershave been, and remain, involvedinthe design process.
                  "Mentors" support the Fund's establishment and operations -- inthis case, a donor
                  agency with program and supervision support (World Bank) and an international NGO
                  partner (The Nature Conservancy).
                  Realistic prospects exist for attracting a level o f capital adequate for the fund to
                  support a significant program while keeping administrative costs to a reasonable
                  percentage.A number o fbilateral donors have givenpositive initial responses
                  concerning possible support for fund administration costs and/or contributions to either
                  the sinkingor endowment fund, providedpositiveindications ofa successfulinception
                  andoperation of the Fundare forthcoming.
                  An effective demand exists for the Fund's product.

The GEF STAP review (December 1997) concludedthat the project is an "excellent proposalto
conserve the globally and locally important biodiversity inPapuaNew Guinea," and i s pragmatic
regardingwhat can be accomplished. The report's suggestion for greater emphasis upon landowners,
and the importance o f their biological resources,has been addressedin this document, as well as
comments regardingmonitoring and evaluation. Community-basedmonitoring has been incorporated
into the project. It has been suggestedthat the project open dialogue with miningandpetroleum
interests to assess their interest inparticipating intrust funds, conservation area establishment and land
use planning. A representative o f the miningindustry is a member o fthe CTF Steering Committee.

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipientcommitment and ownership:
Over recent years, the Bankhas established a comprehensive dialogue with GoPNG, especially the FA.
The Minister for Forests and the FA'SGeneral andManagingDirectors support a forestry and conservation
project o f the nature described inthis document. There is a widespread realization ingovemment that
improved forest management, conservation andenvironmental protection i s important for sustainable
development. This has been expressedinPNGs mediumterm development strategy document, and in
requests for Bank assistance. An endorsement letter requesting GEF support has beenreceived from the
National GEF focal point.

5. Value addedof Bank and Globalsupport inthis project:
The proposedproject will be strengthenedby the close relationship betweenthe Bank`sbroad adjustment
work and forest sector involvement inPNG. The Bank has developed strong, positive relationships with
internationaland local NGOs and the donor community involved innatural resource management inPNG.
The Bankhas the necessaryexpertise and experience to help establish a financial instrumentto support
conservation activities, andto mobilize significant grant-based co-financing.

Participationo f the GEF and other donors willing to finance development o f landowner drivenConservation
and sustainable forest management alternatives will be crucial to this project's success. GEF support i s
critical to ensure that biodiversity conservation i s integratedinto forest sector policy and management.


                                                        - 18-

GEF support can also serve as a catalyst for identifyingfurther donor support for a conservation funding
mechanism, for ensuring full participation o f landowner groups indecision malung,and guaranteeing full
access to information on alternative development options. GEF involvement makes possible conservation
and sustainable forest management options that would not otherwise be available.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit            NPV=US$23.7 million; ERR= 23 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
The base case benefit-cost and rate o f return calculations, as shown in Annex 4, indicate that returns to
investment insustainableforest management, including the cost o f important relatedinvestmentsin
landowner participation inforest management, and an effective environmental assessment andmonitoring
system, are quite favorable: a benefit-cost ratio o f 1.46 (at discount rate 12%), and an economic rate o f
return o f 23 % were calculated for the project.

GEFIncremental Cost comprises: Underthe GEF Alternative, financial assistancewould be providedto
support landowner based alternatives to large-scale logging and establishment o f conservation and
sustainable-use activities inforest areas. This comprises two aspects: (i)     the addition of $1.91 million of
GEF basedfimdinginto the landowner decision makingcomponent ofthe project, to allow landowners to
establish conservation areas on their lands, and (b) financing the establishment o f a Conservation Trust
Fund.The required funding for the latter was calculated by estimatingthe proceeds generatedfrom
royalties on large scale logging operations andthe level o f landowner community demand for alternative
livelihood and conservation options (see Annex 4). This would be achieved by establishing a long-term
financing mechanism, which would be funded on a sinlung fimdbasis during a demonstration phase ($5.8
million) and, if successful, on an endowment basis thereafter. Ideally, this endowment fimd should total
$30.0 million, o f which $10 million will come from the GEF, andthe remaining $20 million will need to
be raised from other donors.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 20.8 million; FRR= 20 % (see Annex 4)
Financial returns to the project are estimated slightly lower than economic returns, becausecertain benefits
(off-site soil andwater impacts o f improved forest management) are not included ina financial analysis

Fiscal Impact:
Inadditionto the fiscal gains expectedfrom improved forest management as desicribed above, the project
i s expected to have two other small fiscal impacts. As noted in the table above, the additional cost to
logging companies to comply with stronger monitorining and enforcement activities is estimated to be $1.5
million, and it is assumed GOPNG will subsidize this cost as necessary. Onthe other hand, more effective
supervision o f activities inthe field will produce both extractive efficiency effects, and improved tracking
o f actual volumes extracted, reducing the possibilities for non-payment on extracted volume, and improving
the accuracy ofassessment andthe efficiency ofcollection of royalties and export taxes. An estimate of $6
million for the life o f the project has beenmade for this figure. This i s likely to be conservative: the
implementationo f an export inspection service for log exporting operations inPapuaNew Guinea some
years ago is estimated to have yieldedabout $20 million inadditional (previously uncollected) revenuesto
GOPNG inthe early stages o f that program.


                                                      - 19-

The Bank has hadmajor engagementinthe larger issue o f taxes and royalties for forest production inPNG,
butthese have been done inthe context o f adjustment operations - for which this project is designed as a
follow-up activity - and therefore the very large fiscal gains to both GOPNG, and to individuallandowner
groups, through re-designed export tax and landowner royalty scales introducedunder adjustment
operations have not been included inthis analysis.


3. Technical:
Selection andimplementation o f systems for monitoringand enforcement inforest operations (independent
surveillance andmonitoring, performance bonds, etc.) and the design o f effective systems for landholder
participation andinvolvement, will be the crucial technical elements inthis project. Inthe case o f the
former, the project team is aware that there are technologies available for effective implementation o f field
based inspection o f forest operations, based on periodic assessment o f operational outcomes, rather than
the more conventional official approach o f supervising inputs into operations on a constant basis. The task
o f consultants andForest Authority staff involvedinthis component will be to select the most workable
andpractical approaches to this, inthe PNGfield environment.

Inthe case of landowner participationinresource decisionmakingandmanagement, while there are
elements o f this which can be taken from other countries, the bulk o f development o f these systems will
have to based on PNG's own experiences, giventhe uniqueness o f the landowner clan based systeminthe
country. There i s expertise available in-country to deal with this aspect, and experiences from other
sectors-notably the miningsector -will be a valuable tool indefining effective approaches. The project
team commissioned consultancy reports from local experts inlandowner issues, and these reports will
form the basis o f design o f approachesto improving landowner decision making andrepresentation in
PNG.


4. Institutional:
As notedunder Section D(Project Rationale) above, prior experience demonstratesthat landowners have
been excluded from full participation inthe management decision-makingprocess concerning natural
resourcesthey own anddirectly dependupon. The informal nature o f structures to represent landowner
interests inproject decision-making often disenfranchises the majority o f community members. A major
focus o f the project will be to develop models for landholder participation and concession level
representative structures. An entirely new consultancy based structure for promoting landowner decision
makingandparticipationinresource use and conservation intheir areas will be. Institutional analysis and
history shows that it is likely to be better to build more transparentcommunity representation mechanisms
through the use o f Integrated Landowner Groups, or other mechanisms with some record o f success in
PNG.

The Forest Authority has major human resource and other institutional limitations constraining its ability to
carry out its fundamental task o f sustainable forest management and planning. Moreover, a strong
preoccupation inthe Authority with large-scale logging, revenue collection and application o f a
complicatedregulatory framework has diverted institutional attention from achieving sustainable forest
management. The basic approach o f the project, inthis area, will be to focus the FA on the task o f
monitoring andenforcement inforest operations, but basing this upon a system o fperiodic outcome based
assessment, to remove the very heavy institutional andtechnical burden which a complex, input assessment
basedregulatory system imposes.




                                                      - 20 -

Ina similar vein, the Office ofEnvironment and Conservation has limitedhumanresource andtechnical
capacity, especially in the area o f environmental assessment o f large scale natural resource projects. The
institutional strategy of the project is to focus technical and institution buildingassistance on this aspect o f
OEC's work, and to form stronger linkages between OEC and the FA, especially for the task o f initial
evaluation o f forest resource projects, when these are at the proposal stage.

Bankand intemationalexperience with endowment funds to promote biodiversity conservation show the
importance of: (a) participatory design processes with landowners and other stakeholders, to ensure
consensus on trust fund objectives and eligible activities; (b) an independent management structure for the
CTF, with broad representation from civil society andgovemment; (c) professional investment advisors to
manage the capital endowment within an agreed investment strategy; (d) clear rules definingwhat activities
are eligible for funding, who is eligible to apply, how funding requests will be evaluatedkelected, andthe
funding cycle and funding ceilings; (e) a qualified, motivatedtechnical team to administer daily operations;
(f) a fundingmobilization strategy to ensure sufficient capitalizationto generate desired income flows; and
(g) sound financial management andcontrol procedures to ensure timely releaseandmonitoringof funds.
These lessons are being applied inthe preparationo f the proposed CTF and are reflected inthe trust fund
design.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The following agencies o fthe Borrower are the executing agencies ofthis project: The Department of
NationalPlanning andMonitoring; The National Forest Authority: The Office o f Conservation and
Environment.
The GEF financed Conservation Trust Fundcomponent o f the project is to be executed by the PNG Mama
Graun Conservation Trust Fund.

4.2 Projectmanagement:
Govemment, at negotiations, would agree to create and staff a semi-autonomous Project Oversight
Committee (POC) that would have responsibility for planninganddirecting project implementation andfor
achieving development objectives o f the project. The Minister o f Planningwould appoint ten membersto
the POC comprised ofrepresentatives from major lineministries and from NGOs; LDOUand the CTF.
The POC wouldmeet, at minimum, quarterly. The POC will essentially be the same committee as the
NFCAP Steering Committee and, as such, will also play a key role incoordinating forestry programs
among donors and government.

4.3 Procurement issues:
See Section C4, andAnnex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
See Section C4, and Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental reviewwas conducted and forwarded by the government after appraisal. Prior to
appraisal, the review was distributed to the PNG FA and OEC as well as to a number o f other stakeholders
andwas basedon areview ofrelevant project documents, field trips andmeetingswiththe implementing
organizations. On some half a dozen occasions, draft project documentation has beenwidely distributed
andcomments received, leadingto substantial andadaptive development ofthe project. The review


                                                      -21  -

describes: (1) the current environmental issues confronting the management andfurther developments o f the
forest sector inPNG; (2) the implications of the current situation on the long term condition o f forest
ecosystem andecological functions; (3) the ways inwhich the project interventions are expected to improve
the current environmental situation; (4) the risks associatedwith proposed interventions and describes the
conditions under which such interventions may have unanticipated or unexpected negative outcomes; and
(5) the measures that will be taken to ensure that mitigationmeasures and environmental safeguards are
properly addressedand incorporated into the project.
Annex 13, the Summary ofthe Environmental Reviewprovides a detailed description ofproject activities,
the associated field activities, potential environmental impacts, mitigationmeasuresproposed andkey
assumptions which apply to each project component.
Although the review indicatedthat there are no major negative impacts arising from project actions, and
that the project i s in compliance with World Bank Operational Policies and Directives for forestry activities
and environment assessment (ODIOP 4.01; 4.36 and 4.04); environmental risks could arise from the
possibility that:

0   the Bank'sinvolvement inthe sector is perceived by stakeholders as further entrenching the status quo;

0   the project fails to meet its objectives and a significant opportunity to promote sustainable development
     o fthe sector i s lost;

0   technical management options supported under the project do not meet their statedgoals;

0   the project furthers the goals andaspirations of a single constituency (Le., the timber industry) over the
     legitimate interests o f other groups.
The project is designed to address these risks and; ifsuccessful, will move the forest administrationa long
way toward four important goals. First, it will establish a more transparent decision makingprocess and
thus leadto increased andmore appropriate forest sector governance. Second, it will helpto ensure
adherence to principles o f environmental planning. Third, it will improve opportunities for public imput
into the decisionprocess. Fourth, it will strengthen the conservation capacity within PNG.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
Components 1 and 4 (Landowner Forest Decision Meeting andEnvironmental Assessment andMonitoring)
constitute the environment management plan as an integratedpart o f project design, while the Conservation
Trust Fundandthe Sustainable Forest Management component resources to undertake specific mitigation
and environmentalmeasures.

The key features ofthe EMPtherefore are: (i)implementation o f independent inspection andreview
activities; (ii)
               monitoring andassessment o f key environmental indicators; (iii) participationand
                                                                                 public
input into decision makingandinall elements ofthe project andtherefore the EMP; (iv) implementationof
sustainable forest management inclusive o f biodiversity conservation in a culturally appropriate context;
and (v) adaptive management o f the project inthe light o f monitoring andpublic consultation.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                       Date o f receipt o f final draft:
EA was undertaken June - August 1998. First drafts from government received March 1999. It is now
complete.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms


                                                        - 22 -

o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
EnvironmentalNGOs, church groups, other civil society groupings were consulted frequently during the
preparation o f the project and were giventhe EA findings for comment. Also, highlevels o fparticipation
from all stakeholders inthe social assessment for this project, includedmajor consultation on forest
environment issues.

Annex 18 provides a detailed summary o fpublic participationinthe preparationo f the project. It includes
a description o f various formal and informal meetings, disclosure o f project documents and participation in
project design within and outside PNG. The process o f consultation has beenmaintained throughout all
stages o f project development andwill be a key feature o f implementation
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?
The key performance indicators as outlined inAnnex 1 include environmentalmonitoringcriteria,
especially inthe case o f Component 4 (Environmental Assessment and Monitoring) and have been
extensively reviewed to ensure they adequately monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project. As such,
they directly reflect the objectives andresults ofthe EMP.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Highlevels ofparticipationfrom diverse stakeholders, including government, civil society, the private
sector and particularly landowners, are central to the outcome o f the project. For this reason, a strong
participatory and consultative approach has been applied inproject preparation. This strategy will remain
duringproject implementation(see Annex 11, Social Analysis ofRuralDevelopment Issues; andAnnex
18). The project will learn andbuildupon the lessons o f previous GEF activities inPNG; including the
LakandBismarck-RamuICADsites. The Bankhasrecently concludeda fieldaudit ofLandowner
Benefits (analyzing the extent to which timber companies meet their commitments to landowners). This
study is an important component o f assessingthe social issues uponwhich this project depends. Key social
issues relevant to the project include (i)governance; (ii) decentralization and service delivery; (iii)
                                                                                                     social
and cultural fragmentation; and (iv) gender issues. The project using a participatory framework for
implementationwill have significant social development actions including increasing the stock o f social
capital at the local level and improving the links between local andformal governmental institutions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The Forestry andConservation Project by its nature will be heavily reliant upon participation by
landowners, civil society groups (especially the various church groups, which are highly involvedand
influential inPNG) andNGOs, and progressive elements inthe forest industry sector. It i s expected that
the project will set intrain a long term set o f changes inthe means by which stakeholder groups become
involved inthe use and management o f forests: inone component -the Conservation Trust Fund-
longevity is actually mandated inthe design of the financing arrangements, which will guaranteethat this
non-government facility will be capable of supporting landowner activities within its terms o f reference into
perpetuity.
For these reasons, the preparation phase o f the project has reliedheavily on participation by stakeholders -
especially those inthe civil society grouping inthe formulation o f basic objectives and design o fthe
                                                -
project. The implementationphase o fthe project has very specific measuresincorporated(especially
withinthe LandownerDecision Makingcomponent) to bringbroadgroups of stakeholders into the



                                                      - 23 -

implementation management and planning process: for example, a number o fregional workshops, leading
to a national level conference on landowner representation and decision-making issues is programmedinto
the implementation schedulefor the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The participatory framework to be usedduringproject implementationincludes:
0   social mapping and baseline data activities
0   option information and awarenessbuilding
0   multi-levelawarenessbuilding
0   integration o f development strategies and local govemment planning
0   local and national agency institution capacity building
0   local project preparation and implementation particularly with
    selective social assessment where sub-project are to be implemented
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?


At the national level, the project Oversight Committee will haveNGOrepresentation on it. As aresult of
previous andcurrent requirements o f the Bank implementedstructural adjustment operations inPNG, the
PNG Forestry Board includes an NGO representative, the regulations require the Board to disclose all
non-commercial inconfidence deliberations relating to the allocation o f forest resources, which enables
civil society groupings to have timely access to this material. Inaddition, the Forestry Board includes a
representative from the broader PNG private sector from the Chamber o f Commerce: the intention beingto
expose a wider grouping o f the private sector to forest sector issues, and to draw more interest from
responsible members o f that community in sustainable forest investment.

Withinthe project, there will be support for participation o f landowners andcivil society groupings
representing their interests inall components o f the project:
0   extension, workshops andconsultations will be supported on the central issue o f landowner
    organization and representation inthe resource use decision making area, within the Landowner Forest
    Decision-Making component      - infact, these are a central element ofthe strategy ofimplementationof
    that component;
0   the Conservation Trust Fundcomponent, as will be evident from the above andmore detailed
    description o f it elsewhere inthe document, is entirely basedincivil society management, and has
    major provisions for constant consultation and interaction with landowners and others in all aspects o f
    its activities;
0   landowners and their representatives will participate increasingly inthe management and monitoringo f
    ongoing andnew forest operations inPNG, both through specific measuresdesignedto include them in
    these processes introduced inthe Sustainable Forest Management component, and also as measures
    improvingtheir capacity to negotiate with industry and government agencies through the Landowner
    Forest Decision-Making component come into effect.
0   specific support is provided for engagement o f landowners inenvironmental monitoring, under the
    EnvironmentalAssessment andMonitoring component
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
There are a numbero f specific participation outcomes included for evaluation as key performance
indicators inthis project including:
(i) oftrainingonthedevelopmentOptionStudymethodologytolandownerrepresentatives;
   delivery


                                                     - 24 -

(ii)preparation and submission o f legislation to simplify and strengthenthe process o f incorporation o f
landowner representative groups;
(iii)achievement o f effectively representative landowner organization in20% o f major forest resource
project
areas by midterm review, and 0% by project close;
(iv) a range o f specific targets relating to implementation of CTF financed landowner projects by midterm
andproject close; (v) increasedinvolvement oflandowners inthe Forest Management Agreement
negotiationprocess; and
(vi) achievement of at least 20 pilot community managed environmentalassessmentprograms.

7. Safeguard Policies:




    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Three safeguardpolicies are triggeredand compliance will be achieved by (i)     successful implementation o f
the environment assessment and monitoring component; (ii)       a highlevel ofproject supervision; (iii)
development o f independent and community level monitoring o fproject activities inconnection with
improved standards o f forest and conservation management (iv) significant institutional capacity buildingin
government (PNG FA, OEC and Landowner Forest Decision-Making Unit)andinlocal communities. (v)
regular assessmento f project performance (refer Supervision Plan) against measurable agreed project
indicators.




                                                     - 25 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability is vitally dependent on five elements. First,it will dependheavily on GoPNG's
continuedcommitment to maintain the conditionality and the forest andlandmanagement standardsthat.
will be established underthe project, as well as the progress inforest sector reform achieved over the last
decade. Second, the project depends upon the development o f effective mechanisms for landholder
participation andmonitoring in conservation and forest management. Third, the CTF will needto be
capitalized at a level sufficient to generate annual resourcesneededto meet demand, an estimated needo f
US1.5-20 million annually for alternative development options inthe long term. Fourth, conservation
mechanisms must be accessible, attractive and able to respond quickly to opportunities andrequests for
local conservation initiatives. Last, the broader context and longer term goals for forestry outlined initem5
underB. Strategic Context above needto be bome inmindandthere is likely to be aneedfor continuing
support for developments relatedto the achievement o f these goals beyondthe project life, and the Bank is
committed to such support.

The ultimate success of the project will depend upon the extent to which it buildswell-beingand quality o f
life for landowners, inthe long term. The activities o f the Conservation Trust Fundwill emphasize
sustainable income-generating alternatives to exploitative and unsustainable resource use. The basic
objective o f improving landowner participation inresource decision-making i s to ensurethat marginalized
and poorer individuals gain access to the process, andthereby improve their own economic situations: this
important poverty alleviation focus i s key to sustainability o f the programs initiated under the project.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                         Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Forest management and environmental                    M            Reliance on initial inputs from contract sources
 assessment processes ineffective, due to                            and strong project management. Project
 institutional limitations inmajor                                   strengtheningof agencies concerned.
 departments o f Government.

 Delays inestablishing landholder                       S            Strong and early in\.ol\.ement o f NGOs and
Iparticipation mechanisms and obtaining                              community groups, plus early education
 cooperation andunderstanding for                                    programs aimed at potential candidate
 development options.                                                communities.
~




 Industry non-compliance with                           H            Support and. ifnecessary, stand-by financing
 conditionalityiregulatory framework.                                for GoPNG. Conditionalities linked to this
                                                                     project and SAP.

 Insufficient incentivehnterest by                      ?:           C0mprehensik.eassessment of
 landholders inconservation investment.                              interests requirements during desi&

 Fiduciary risk due to poor control                     H            GoPNG has agreed to an action planto improve
 environment                                                         systems, centred on the PMU.




                                                      - 26 -

(From Components to Outputs
 Inappropriate changes to sector policy.                 M            Strong linkage to adjustment program and donor
                                                                      program, andresponsive to local concerns and
                                                                      knowledge.
 Incentive for existinglandowner company                 H            Conditionality for GoPNG to establish new
 representatives to undermine new              1                      regulations and support implementation early
 participatory arrangements.                                          mustbe strong; strong educational component
                                                                      emphasizing benefits o f sustainable forest
                                                                      management.
 CTF financing mechanism not adequately                               Donor andindustry commitment ascertained
                                                                      prior to inception.
 Adequate andtimingprovision o f                                      Major responsibility o f Project Management
bz:\fimds.                                                            Unitto monitor andrectify.
 Overall Risk Rating
I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), lu(Neg1igibleor Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:

(a) This project could encounter difficulties, even resistance from PNG's private logging sector. Every
effort has been, and will continue to be made, to involve the sector positively inthe reforms proposed.
However, there is a risk that some elements o f the present industrywill see their interests as being
threatened, bothby the investments in landholder awareness and decision-making, andby the upgrading o f
the Forest Authority's capability to monitor forest operations. The Bankand other donors will needto
stay inclose touch with industryrepresentatives, andinparticular will needto participate fully in
consultations on the future for the sector as well as be prepared to support GoPNG inits forestry sector
reformefforts.

(b) Support from the Bank for strengtheningincorporatedlandgroups mustbe implementedwith care,
through capable NGO and community groups. Misconceptions that the project i s acting as a proxy for
government registrationo f clan land would be extremely counterproductive inthe PNG situation,
consideringthe strong customary attachments to land. Inactuality, this project thoroughly embracesthe
customary landtenure system, and utilizes its strengths inpursuit o f locally appropriate conservation
models.

(c) Reform inthe sector has also beenfacilitated by conditionalities inthe GPAL which has supported the
government's recent decisions regardingthe sector including a moratoriumon granting new FMA's, timber
authorities and geographical extensions, untilthe processing o f these applications has beenreviewed.
Eventhough the FCP includes a review o f all ongoing operations the moratorium supported by the Bank
only refers to those inprocess. It i s not possible giventhe GPAL time frame andthe probable commercial
implications for all operations to be suspended untila review is completed. This view i s not sharedby
some within the NGOcommunity andis subject to an ongoing dialogue.


G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

(i)       Government to confirm the establishment of a FCP "Supply and Tenders Board", with an award
          level o f USS500,OOO equivalent;



                                                       - 27 -

      Government will establish an "Executing Agency Trust Account" with an initial deposit o f US$
      250,000 equivalent to be usedas a replenishable account from which project expenses will be paid;
      Government to establish a POC.
      Two GEF Grant Agreements have been signedby GOPNG and CTF, respectively.
      That a Procurement Specialist has beenretained by the PMU.
      Government to adopt a timetable satisfactory to the Bank to implementthe recommendations o f the
      review o fpending timber harvesting permitapplications.
      Government to employ consultants to undertake the review o f all ongoing loggingoperations.
      Government to adopt arrangementsto review new logging permit applications.
      Government to establish the Landowner Decision and Organization Unit.


2. Other [classify according to covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:

       By June 30,2002, have fully operational, to Bank standards, the project financial management
      andcontrol system, withinthe ProjectManagement Unit.Establish instruments to acknowledge
      andlegitimatize locallanduse decisions.
      ByAugust 31,2002, the Landowner Decisionand OrganizationUnitfully operational andthe
      Development Options Studies Strategy adopted.
      By June 30,2002 issue andthereafter enforce regulations requiringany personengaging inthe
      harvestingo ftimber, except persons harvestingtimber from plantation forests to post performance
      bonds (not less than 40% o f estimated average annual operating costs at minimum cut production
      levels) or such other amounts as the borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree. These bonds
      will be drawn down by Government on evidence ofnon-compliance by the logging company with
      the Logging Code o f Practice.
      By June 30,2003 abill enabling landowner forest groups to organize themselves as legal entities
      and designate their forests o f conservation areas, will be submitted to Parliament. When enacted
      requiredregulations for implementation will be issued.
      Operatingthrough the PNGForest Authority, andutilizing consultant services hiredby the PNG
      FA underterms o freference andconditions satisfactory to the Bank,the Government will review at
      least 15 logging operations inthe field for compliance with the Forestry Act andregulations, by
      June 30,2003, andthe remainderby June 30,2007.
      By August 31,2002, adopt andthereafter implement a Forest LandUse Options Study
      By June 1, 2004, prepare a report integrating the results ofmonitoringand evaluation activities, on
      the progress achieved inthe carrying out o fthe Project and the achievement o f objectives, taking
      into account the Project performance indicators agreedwith the Bank.
      By August 1, 2004, review with the Bank said report andtake all measuresrequiredto ensure
      efficient completion o f the Project and achievements thereof.

General Covenants:

(i)   Maintain at the 2000 (real) level the Forest Authority's operational budget or such other level as
      agreed from time to time between the Borrower andthe Bank. For this purpose inNovember o f
      each year, commencing inNovember 2002, the Borrower shall, through the Forest Authority,
      furnishto Bank, for its review andcomments, theproposedbudgetary allocations for the
      forthcoming Fiscal Year. (Refer Project Development Objective, main text);




                                                  - 28 -

(ii)     Maintainthe independence o f the Forestry Board;
(iii)    Maintain the log exporting inspectionoperation for the duration o f the project;
(iv)     Maintainthe effectiveness o f the project financial management and control system, including all
         necessary updating and staff training;
(v)      The Governmentundertakes not to remove the moratorium on approval o f applications for logging
         permitsuntilit has implemented recommendations madeby the team reviewing pendingtimber
         harvestingpermit applications.
(vi)     Review all loggingpermit applications submittedto determine compliance o f applicationprocess
         with the Forestry Act, by means satisfactory to the Bank.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivities arecomplete andreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
[xi 1.b) Not applicable.

0 2. Theprocurement documentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
       project implementation.
Kl3, TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
0 4. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(Section G):

This project does not have major constructionor other longplanningperiodinputs.The procurement
schedule (see Annex) indicates that procurement documents andrelated matters will be developed following
loan signing.

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
    1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
0 2. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                                                   Klaus Rohland
                                                                                   Country ManagerlDirector




                                                     - 29 -

                                        Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                   PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
                                        Key Performance
                                            Indicators                  Monitoring & Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:          Sector Indicators:                   Sector1country reports:           (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Satisfactory regulatory        - Improvement inquality and          - At least 30% o f all operating  Existenceo f strong politicalwill
environment and adequate          sustainability o f forest operations concessions in compliance with    and commitment to ensure
monitoring to ensure sustainable                                       logging code o f practice by the  compliance with sustainable
management and conservation o f                                        project Mid-term Review (MTR); forest management and
forest resources vital to PNG's                                        - 80% of forest operations        conservation regulations as well
economic growth.                                                       compliance by project             as equitable landowner
                                                                       completion.                       participation inforest resource
                                                                                                         benefits.
                                  - Conservation sites identified
                                  andprotected.                        - All major conservation sites
                                                                       excluded from forestry project
                                                                       development areas by project
                                                                       close.
2. Environmental protection and   - Landowner involvement     in       - Approved mechanisms             Willingness o f landowners to
conservation o f important forest planning and monitoring o f forest negotiations within 2 years o f     participate inforest resource
ecosystems.                       operations                           effectiveness.
                                                                       - Legislation amendments tabled operations andmonitoring.
                                                                                                         development and management

                                                                       to ensure legal basis for land
                                                                       group managed forests and
                                                                       conservation areas within 2 years
                                                                       o f effectiveness.
3. Improvedbenefits for
landowners from the use of
natural resources.
GEF Operational Program:
In-site conservation and          - Increases inlandowner based        - grant based landowner project Conservation Trust Fundwill be
sustainable use o f forest        conservation activities in forest    financing mechanism disbursing    able to identify sufficient viable
biodiversity with the active      areas.                               against effective projects at 50% landowner conservation projects.
involvement o f local communities                                      o f final endowment target yield
as managers and beneficiaries o f                                      level by end o f fourth year;
better forest management.                                              - grant funds disbursing at 100%
                                                                       o f endowment yield level by
                                                                       close.




                                                                  - 30 -

                                          Key Performance
 Hierarchy of Objectives                       Indicators                Monitoring & Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
'roject Development                 Outcome I Impact                    Project reports:                    from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                          Indicators:
 .Capacity ofgovernment, local      - Improved forest management        - completion o frevision o f forest idequate staffing andtechnical
:ommunities and other               planmng and monitoring and         data systems, management             apacity within PNGFA and DEC
takeholders strengthened to         enforcement o f codes o f practice prescriptions, regeneration          3 effectively participate in
,ustainably manage and conserve inposition with enhanced local         guidelines, monitoring system        lroject and implement activities.
'NG's forest resources;             community involvement.             and effective sanctions by project
                                                                        close;
                                                                        - 30% o f major commercial
                                                                        operations under new inspection
                                                                        and enforcement standardsby
                                                                        MTR;
                                                                        - 80% o f major commercial
                                    - Strengthened legal and            operationsunder new standards
                                    institutional capacity to enforce   by project completion.
                                    effective environmental
                                    assessment o f forestry operations. -- Environmental Assessment
                                    - Strengthened capacity to          (EA) permits management
                                    integrate environmental             system inplace and regulations
                                    conservation planning inforest      approved within 2 years o f
                                    management planning.                effectiveness.

                                                                        - 30% ofproposed operations
                                                                        assessedby MTR;
                                                                        - all proposed operations
                                                                       assessedby project completion.
!,Sustainability ofincome           - Implementation of improved        - legal and regulatory measures     jovernment agencies, NGOs and
Ipportunities and quality of life   landowner development options       related to development options      ,ommunity groups and
Iflocal populations livingunder representative mechanisms and           study process inplaceby MTR;        andowners form effective
:ustoma&title inforest areas      I procedures.                         - landowner representative          vorking linkages to ensure
mproved.                                                                institutions designed, with         ustainable use and management
                                                                        establishment initiated and         ifforest resources.
                                                                        implementation training ongoing,
                                                                        -bylandowner institutional
                                                                            MTR;

                                                                       arrangements functioning in 3
                                                                        major watersheds, by project
                                                                        close.




jlobal Objective:




                                                                   -31 -

                                         Kev Performance                I
  Hierarchy of Objectives                     Indicators                1    Monitoring & Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Output from each                  Output Indicators:                        Project reports:                  from Outputs to Objective)
                                                                           ~

Component:
Landowner Forest
Decision-Makina Commnent

1. Development options             - Development and                        - LDOU established within 1
procedures enabling landowners    implementation of DOS strategy            year of effectiveness;
to makeinformed decisions aboui and education plan for                      - Implementation o f education on
use o ftheir resources improved.  landowners;                               DOS for landowners 2 years after   andowners willing to participate
                                   - Approval o f necessary enabling effectiveness;                            ctively information o f improved
                                  regulations, and presentationo f          - Approval of updatedLand          epresentative organization.
                                  my necessarylegislationto                 Groups Incorporation legislation
                                  Parliament;                               by MTR;

2. Representative landowner       .Technology andknowledge                  - Workshop on best practices for
organizations and networks        transfer on best practices for            landowner organisations by 2
established and strengthened.     landowner organizations                   years after effectiveness;
                                  :ompleted;                                - Representative landowner          Increasedinformation and
                                   - Representative organizations           organisations in 20% o f major     ommunity T A will actually lead
                                  andnetworks among landowner               forest resource project areas by   o more beneficial forest use
                                  hnctioning;                               MTR;                               lecisions.
                                                                            - Representative landowner
                                                                            organisations in 80% o f major
                                                                            forest resource project areas by
                                                                            close.
3. Establishment of landowner      - Legislation and regulations            - Legalbasis for
managedconservation areas.        amendedor developed to                    landowner-managed CMAs 1
                                  facilitate recognition o f status o f     year after effectiveness
                                  landowner managed conservation
                                  ireas;                                    - CMA projects operating     in 1
                                  .Landowner managed                        major watershed area by M T R
                                   :onservation projects established - C M A projects operating in 3
                                                                            major watersheds byproject close

4. CTF financed projects          .Developprojectappraisal and              - appraisal criteria  inplace 1    ,andowners willing to participate
implemented.                      monitoring capacity within CTF            year after effectiveness;
                                                                            -                                 nformation andimplementation
                                                                                Trust technical staffing      )fviable conservationbased
                                  .Landowner applications                   appointed within 1year after       nvestment projects.
                                  ippraised; projects financed and
                                  implemented.                              -effectiveness; completed and
                                                                               agreements
                                                                            GEF sinking fundgrant inplace
                                                                            by effectiveness;
                                                                            - 20 demonstration projects
                                                                            under implementation by MTR;
                                                                            - 50 small grants and 8 larger
                                                                            grants, utilizing total estimated
                                                                            yield from endowment funds
                                                                            invested, by project close.
Conservation Trust Fund
Comuonent
                                    Boardof Trustees appointed, leg;
1. Establishment o f a grant-based nstrumentsapprovedand                    - Board appointed and              Willingness and capacity o f
trust fund to provide long-term,  idministrahveoffice established:          functioning by project             Ionors to provide funds to create
reliable and independent                                                    effectiveness;                    i viable endowment
financing for landowner-based                                               - Trust constitution and corporate


                                                                    - 32 -

                    -_
orest conservation development.                                       entity approved within first year
                                                                      o f effectiveness;
                                                                      - One year from effectiveness,
                                                                      fund raising capacity o f CTF in
                                                                      place.
                                     Financial base for Conservation
                                   'rust Funddeveloped                - System and controls for
                                                                      investment o f endowment funds
                                                                      inplaceby MTR
                                                                      - Minimum US $5m ingrants for
                                                                      CTF available or written
                                                                      commitment from other donors
                                                                      by MTR.
                                                                      -All audits o f CTF operations
                                                                      clear and acceptable by MTR.
                                                                      - GEF sourced endowment funds
                                                                      matching other grants inplace by
                                                                      MTR;
                                     Develop project appraisal and
:. CTF financed projects           ionitoring capacity within CTF     - appraisal criteria in place 1
mplemented.                                                           year after effectiveness;
                                                                      - operational manual completed
                                                                      ,operational procedures
                                                                      approved within first year o f
                                                                      project;
                                                                      - Trust technical staffing
                                                                      appointed within 1year after
                                                                      effectiveness;
                                                                      - agreements completed and
                                                                      GEF sinking fund grant inplace
                                     Landowner applications           by effectiveness;
                                    ppraised; projects financed and                                     >andowners willing to participate
                                    nplemented.                       -20 demonstration projects under n formation and implementation
                                                                      implementation by MTR;            ifviable conservation based
                                                                      - 50 small grants and 8 larger    nvestment projects.
                                                                      grants, utilizing total estimated
                                                                      yield from endowment funds
                                                                      invested, by project close.
htainable Forest Manaaement         ' Reviews o f FMAs, forest        - reviews o f 15 sampled          :orest industry can be induced to
:omuonent                           ermits and logging operations     operations completed by MTR;      :ooperate in complying with
                                   ir compliance with regulations     - review ofall loggingoperations .egulations relatedto logging
 . Implementation of improved      ndcodes ofpractice;                completed by project close.       :odes and monitoring.
ystems o fmonitoring and             Introduction o finspection and   - revenue system approved 1year
nforcement in large scale forest    ionitoringprocedures;             after effectiveness;
lperations.                          Review and restructure system - codes o fpractice completed and
                                   )r forest charges, incentive       approvedby MTR.
                                   rrangements and code o f
                                   ractice, via a multistakeholder
                                   onsultative process.

 , Forestmanagement and             Enhanced capability to integrate - adequate integrated              3stablishment o f working
'laming capacity improved and      mservationplanning with forest conservation-related Global           xotocols between DEC and FA
lore equitable participationo f    lanning using imagery based        Information System(G1S)           Inthe integration of
:levant landowners in the forest   )rest data systems;                operational capability inOfice of mvironmental considerations into
ianagement and conservation         Revision and application o f      Environment and Conservation      brestry planning at the onset o f
rocess.                            lore sustainable annual            (OEC) and FA 2 years after        :oncession management
                                    ilowable cuts and silvicultural   effectiveness;                    ilanning.
                                    rescriptions;                     - new Annual Allowable Cut
                                     Redesign Forest Management       (AAC) estimates and silvicultural

._. .. ... -...
    ___                             .greement to incorporate more    prescriptions introduced into all  :ooperation and understandmg of
               __ ..  . ..   ...-.
                                 -                                                                         - - - -      -.  __-___

                                                                 - 33 -

                                 responsibility for forest           new operations 2 years after          andowners inparticipating in
                                 management and silvicultural         effectiveness; into all operations   :MA approval process.
                                 prescriptions as well as            by project close;
                                 monitoring, plus new landowner       - new FMA system approvedby
                                 decision making arrangements.        Forestry Board 2 years after
                                                                      -effectiveness;system applied to all
                                                                        new F M A
                                                                     proposals for approval 3 years
                                                                      after effectiveness.
i.Regenerationofloggedover       - Develop andimplement               - regenerationguidelines and         rhat natural regeneration i s a
brest areas improved.            improved silviculturalilogging      regulations approved 2 years          ;ilviculturally viable and cost
                                 management guidelines for            after effectiveness;                 :ffective option for sustainable
                                 regeneration following logging.      - introduced to all forest           nanagement.
                                 - Develop strategy and               operations by project close.         ,eggingcompanies to cooperate
                                 regulations to shift onus for forest - Incentivesisanctionsfor logging    nforest regeneration activities
                                 regeneration to logging             companies to undertake                Ina large-scale basis.
                                 companies in collaboration with     regenerationinplace by MTR.
                                 landowners.                          - At least four working              ,and and tree tenure
                                 - Implementation of natural         regenerationpilots by end o f fifth irrangements satisfactory for
                                 regeneration pilots in different    year of project.                      iecessary medium to long-term
                                 forest types under agreement                                              nvestments inplantations can be
                                 with logging companies and                                                :stablished.
                                 landowners.
I. Industrialplantation          - Plantation development             - Plantation strategy study and
Ievelopment feasibility pursued. strategy, together with necessary    initial site identification
                                 policy and legislative incentive     completed 2 years after
                                 amendments prepared.                 effectiveness;

                                 - Plantation feasibility examined
                                 and investment sought.               - Feasibility study and
                                                                     prospectus for investment
                                                                      completed by MTR.
kironmental Assessment and       - Completed legislative and          - new Environment Act tabled         'orma1 protocols between DEC
Monitorinp Commnent              regulatory reformrequiring EA        inParliament and regulations         mdFA neededto facilitate the
                                 application to forest operations    drafted 1year after effectiveness;    indertaking of EAs o f forestry
 .Capacity andregulatory base    and proposals;                       - criteria and approach for          Iperations.
)fOffice of Environment and                                           existing forestry projects permit
:onsewation to apply             - Establishment o f newpermits       system finalised within 2 years of
nvironmental impact              administration and payment          project effectiveness;
issessments to forest operations system and awareness training        - implementation of new fee
mproved                          undertaken on environmental          collection system and accounting
                                 regulatory methods to facilitate    within 2 years o fproject
                                 completion o f EAs for forest       effectiveness;
                                 projects.                            - 30% of all forest operations
                                                                     (existing and proposed) subjected
                                                                     to EA by MTR
                                                                     - all forest operations subjected
                                                                     to EA by project completion.
!. Capability o flandowner       - Preparation o ftraining           - Environmentalassessment
:omunitiesto augment             materials and trainingo fkey        training modules ready 1year
;ovemment activities in the      local individuals in                after effectiveness;
nonitoring o f environmental     mvironmental assessment;            - 100community assessors
utcomes relatedto forestry                                           trained by M T R
ctivities improved.              . Implementation andevaluation - 20pilot assessmentprograms
                                 3 f pilot community                 underimplementation by project
                                 :nvironmental assessment            close.
                                 xograms.




                                                                - 34 -

                                Key Performance
                                    Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Project ComponentsI         nputs: (budgetfor each     'roject reports:             [fromComponentsto
Sub-components:             :omponent)                                             Outputs)
                            JS$million
Landowner Forest Decision                              Supervision reports, audits  Successhl establishment
Making                                                 indfinancial reports         landowner decision and
                                                                                    xganization unit.

Development Options Study   4.17

Strengthening of Landowner  1.10
Representatives Mechanisms

Land Group Based            1.61
Conservation and Resource
Management Areas


ConservationTrust Fund                                 JTF audit reports and annual Staffing and initiation o f
                                                       .eports                      operations o f CTF in time,
                                                                                    Donor contributions to
                                                                                    endowment inlater phase.
Establishment Activities    ).87

Commencement Activities     4.12

Endowment Phase             10.00

SustainableForest                                      Supervision reports, audits  Hiringo f consultants and
Management                                             ind financial reports        adoption of recommendation
                                                                                    and practices in Forest
                                                                                    Authority.
Improved Forest Operations, 1.72
Inspection and Monitoring

Forest Management Planning   .83

Post-harvest Forest         1.16
Management and Plantations

EnvironmentalAssessment                                Supervision reports, audits  Contracts and consultants to
and Monitoring                                         indfinancial reports         advise on monitoring and
                                                                                    regulation established.

Assessment, Monitoring and  1.86
Regulation

Environmental Monitoring by 1.83
Local Communities

ProjectManagement Unit      .84




                                                  - 35 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
              PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$10.72 million
                        -
LandownerForest Decision-Making

Objective and Scope: This component will develop more effective institutional arrangements to assist
landowners to learn more about the range o f forest development alternatives, facilitate decisions regarding
which option to pursue, and assist them to access technical andfinancial resources to pursuetheir choice.
This will include accessibleconservation and sustainable-useopportunities.

A Landowner DecisionandOrganisation Unit(LDOU) will oversee the organizational, technical and
training requirements o f the component. It will operate as a relatively autonomous unit with linkages to
agencies that already have responsibilities for planning community development, especially local
governments. Itwill be linkedwith a coordinating government agency, but a more permanent `home' for
elements o f the unit that will remain after project closure will be determinedduringthe project.

         Sub-component 1-1:DevelopmentOptions Study. Cost U S $4.17 million.

This sub-component will provide the institutional andresource base for initiatinga Development Options
Study (DOS) process, which will:
                 enable communities to consider alternative options for future resource use and
                 development using a participatory planningprocess;
            0    assist communities to engage inmore detailed planningfor their chosen options, build
                 linkages between the community andrelevantdevelopment partners, pursue legal
                 recognition for these decisions, and developjoint management arrangements.

Activities to be carried out under this sub-component will include:
            0    production o f a strategy paper outlining the DOS approach, for NEC endorsement;
                 production o f environmental assessments (incooperation with the OEC), community
                 planningmaps, andplans, for landowner resource use decision-malung and subsequent
                 management;
            0    development o f mechanisms for negotiation o fmanagement agreements and localized
                 project control, and testing o f these indemonstration activities;
                 establishment o f a landowner informationand expertise network;
            0    development o f educational materials on forest management and conservation, for use in
                 landowner extension activities;
                 documenting the methodologies andlessons learnt to provide a model for transfer o f
                 workable development option approaches throughout PNG and Melanesia.

         Sub-component1-2: Strengtheningof LandownerRepresentativeMechanisms

Cost U S $1.10 million. Through activities managed by the LDOU, the project will develop a sound policy
and legislative basis (including any necessary updating o f the Landgroups IncorporationAct) to enable
landowners to establish representative organizations which increase their participation indevelopment
activities. Consideration will be givento recent similar work undertaken for the Oil and Gas Industry. One
existingpossibility for landowner organization is the Incorporated Land Group (ILG), which can provide


                                                      - 36 -

landowners with legal recognition and organizational structures to increase their decision-malung power on
resource management and landuse. However, different variations on this approach may needto be
developed to varyingsocial and economic circumstances among landowners inthe country.

        To this end the project, through this sub-component, will:
        0    sponsor a land groups workshop to review best practice and past experience andmake
             recommendations for changesto legislation and institutional support for landowner groups;
        0    review the Land Groups Incorporation Act and, ifnecessary, facilitate multi-agency proposals
             for amendment, which then will be submittedto NEC and Parliament;
        0    strengthenILGregulationby developing streamlined procedures within the Lands Department
             ILGRegistryconsistent with legislative changes, andprepare manuals explaining the
             procedures;
        0    develop local official and NGO slulls andcapacity to initiate ILGs and maintain them on a
             long-term basis, as well as to continue training and capacity buildingbeyondthe project life;
        0    assist establishment o f ILGs or similar structures in selected areas as part o f the process o f
             assisting landowners to pursue options for conservation and sustainable development.

         Sub-component1-3: Land-Group BasedConservationand ResourceManagementAreas                            -
Cost U S $1.61 million.

Some landowners will want to consider conservation area establishment, or some mixture o f conservation
andresource development. This sub-component will assistthemwith the designation ofWildlife
Management Areas (WMA), andthe creation o f Conservation Areas, both under existing legislation.

         The LDOU andOEC will cooperateto amend Government conservation areapolicy to create a
protectedarea type (tentatively titled Conservation Management Areas, CMA) that will allow a
conservation area to be established incoexistence with small scale and sustainable resource use activities.
Assistance will be provided under the project for landowner groups to develop the necessary plans, as well
as to establish management and enforcement mechanisms needed to establish andmaintain CMAs.

        Activities to be supported under this sub-component will integrate with those supported under 1-1
and 1-2 above whenever conservation is coupledto sustainable forest use:

0   policy and legislative development to ensure a legal basis for establishment o f land group managed
    conservation areas;
0   increasing OEC's capacity to promote legal establishment and registration o f WMAs, and CMAs;
0   assisting land groups to establish CMAs inappropriate areas, andto prepare applications for
    financing.

Project Component 2 US$15.00 million
                      -
ConservationTrust Fund.

Objective and scope: This component will establish an ongoing, reliable andindependentsource o f
in-countq funding for biodiversity conservation and sustainable development, basedon landowner
participation. The CTF will support the framework developed under the landowner component, providing
funds for selectedlandowners that show commitment to conservation-orientated resource use options. It
will be anon-governmental entity, govemed by a multi-stakeholder Management Board. Fundingwill be
focused at landowner and IncorporatedLand Group (ILG) levels, usingNGOs as well as government
agencies as service providers, and will be focused on conservation o f biodiversity.


                                                    - 37  -

OEC is the leadgovernmental agency on all conservation-related matters, including setting conservation
priorities, formulating policies and implementingprograms. Thus, a strong cooperative relationship will be
developed between the OEC and the CTF (see Annex 12).

The component will be implementedinthree phases. Inthe first halfo f 2000, an Establishment Activities
phase was initiated drawing upon pre-project funding mainly to provide the services o f a Senior Trust Fund
Advisor and other short term technical assistance. Once established, a three-year Commencement phase
will be initiated, drawing upon a sinking fund. This will be followedby an CTF Endowment phase, after
which the Fundi s expected to operate inperpetuity supported by the yield from the endowment. The Fund
will support protection o fbiodiversity conservation areas, awarenessbuildingand technical assistancefor
landowners, and selectedconservation initiatives on a broader basis than forestry where possible and
appropriate.

By Boarddate, substantial preparation ofthis component will have been completed, including:
0   formal incorporation and registration o f the Trust, to GEF requirements, as a legal entity inPNG;
0   establishment o f an interim management board for the CTF;
0   completion o f an operations manual, and an information note to go to NEC for endorsement o f the CTF
    concept;
0   establishment o f accounting andasset management systems, and monitoring andevaluation procedures
    as generally described inthe CTF Operations Manual, to be implemented after effectiveness as the
    CTF hires staffto establish them.

         Sub-component2-1: CommencementActivities US $0.87 million.
                                                               -
Activities during this periodwill consist o f key tart-up operations usingpre-project and GEF financing that
will permit early commencement ofthe secondphase ofthe CTF component shown below. More
specifically, activities will include:
0   selecting andupgrading administrative offices;
0   purchasing office equipment, furniture, and supplies;
0   employing short-term technical assistance;
0   procuring vehicles for use inCTF activities;

         Sub-component2-2: CommencementActivities US $4.12 million.
                                                               -
These will consist o f activities such as staffing, training, buildingcommunications and other infrastructure;
operationalizing financial, administrative andother procedures; preparing monitoring and reporting
systems; and carrying out a series o f demonstration projects. Activities will include:
    contracting a qualified organization with extensive experience inmanagement o f environmental funds
    to assist the staff and Board indevelopingtheir administrative procedures;
    hiringandtraining ofCTF stafc
    hiringof assetmanagers anddevelopment of an investment plan;
    establishment o f criteria andindicators o f CTF performance, and a process to monitor and report
    results;
    establishment o f financial audit andcontrol systems to international standards;
    commission and adoption o f a comprehensive and detailed fund raisingplan;
    implementationo f stakeholder meetings to solicit inputon how best to carry out CTF's mission and
    operations;
    establishing working relationships with other programs o f relevance, such as: the NationalForest and
    Conservation Action Plan (NFCAP), Targeted Community Development Program, GEF Small Grants
    Program, and international agency projects (e.g., UNDP, European Union, bilateral donor agencies);


                                                       - 38 -

0    provision o f training and other technical assistancefor initial potential grantees;
0    technical assistance funding to capable NGO and government organizations for the purposes o f
     assisting landowners to conceive, plan and implementdemonstration CTF projects in selected areas;
     funding of demonstration projects, including micro-projects, which pilot various approachesand grant
     types.

          Sub-component2-3: CTF EndowmentPhase CostUS $10.00 million.
                                                           -
Underthis sub-component the CTF would establish the endowment basedCTF; and carry out investment
implementation, andmonitoring and evaluation activities, which will include:
0    organizing a major donors roundtable meetingto report on the CTF commencement phaseresults;
0    developing a strong monitoring and evaluation scheme for the project investment program, and for CTF
     administration, govemance and financial management;
0    evaluating monitoring results for each demonstration project and on an ongoing basis, developing
     aggregate indices to establish improved performance trends;
0    preparation o f annual reports to donor agencies and interestedparties detailing progress o f the CTF
     anddocumenting compliance with donor and other requirements,andpublishother materials (e.g.,
     Lessons Learned) that draw upon monitoring data and evaluations;
0    outlining endowment capital needs and identifypotential donors, andproduce a comprehensive and
     detailed fundraising planfor buildingthe endowment;
0    securing extemal contributions to the permanent endowment;
0    identifying and building support for andinitiatingthe securing o f domestic sources o f funding.

Project Component 3 US$ 8.71 million
                        -
SustainableForestManagement

Objective and scope. This component will augment the efforts of the Forest Authority and others inpursuit
o f sustainable management o f PapuaNew Guinea's forests, ie. long-term management o f selected forests
for sustainable productiontogether with the conservation o f areas of environmental risk andthe setting
aside o f sufficient forest to maintain ecological and biodiversity integrity. The component will also aim at
providinggreater equity inthe distribution o f benefits from the forests among the relevant landowners as
well as their enhancedparticipation inthe forest management andconservation process. The component
will provide institutional strengtheningand technical assistanceto improve FA capacity with regards to
forest management planningandmonitoring. It will also provide for the introduction o f sanctions and
incentives to promote sustained yield forest management and conservation among forest exploiters inareas
that are being commercially managed for timber production. The Component will achieve these objectives
through inter-related activities contained inthree sub-components.

Sub-component3-1: ImprovedForestOperations,InspectionandMonitoring. Cost US $3.72 million

Improvedperformance by industrial-scale logging operations will be encouraged by implementing field
reviews and other measuresto ensure full compliance with the logging code of practice and forest
legislation and regulations, andby promoting improvedpractices by the private sector. This will include
the introduction ofincentives andsanctions to promote more efficiency, less waste and improvedforest
regeneration prospects. An assessment will be made o f the systemo fmonitoringandenforcement o f the
codes and regulations related to logging, and efforts made to ensure such systems are made more effective
and cost efficient. FA will be assistedinensuringthat management andtendering o f new forestry projects
fully complies with procedures and regulations established inthe Forestry Act and all gazetted forestry and
environmental legislation andregulations.



                                                      -39 -

Emphasis will be placedupon improving the administrationo f financial revenue collection inFA.The
current systemo f forest royalties, charges and levies will be reviewed. Recommendations will be made on
rationalizing these bearing inmindthe costs and benefits o f logging andthe practicality o f applying some
o f the levies, such as the Project Development Levy (PDL). Revenue collection systems will be reviewed
andrecommendations made onmore efficient collection, andthe apportioningof fundsbetween NFS and
Treasury.

Proposed activities will include:
     0    design andimplementationo f adequateperformance bonds;
     0    identification and instigation o f the means by which to enhance the capacity o f Government to use
          existing legislative and regulatory sanctions against non-performing companies when the need
          arises.
     0    in-depthreviews o fFMAs established and Forest Permits, to ascertain compliance with forestry
          andenvironmental regulations andguidelines. This reviewwould follow upthe review being
          undertaken o f proposed timber permitsand extensions associatedwith the moratoriumon the
          issuing ofnew timberpermits and extensions imposedas a condition for negotiations;
     0    reviewingexisting operations to assess compliance with logging code ofpractice andthe
          operational efficiency o f forest industryoperators as well as the effectiveness and efficiency o f the
          monitoring systemand structure. This reviewwill also serve as a baseline for any improvements
          required for the monitoring system;
     0    identifying where institutional inadequacies exist inpresent monitoringand enforcement o f LCP
          occur, andestablishing, as required, a more efficient system and structure for monitoring, reporting
          andenforcing codes andstandards inloggingoperations, makinguse of available resourceswithin
          NFS, but also considering the role that both industry and landowners may play;
     0    investigation o f development o f a systemwhereby operations that are reviewed (inspected) provide
          funding for the review (i.e. the user pays for the inspection);
     0    strengthening o f the logging code o f practice as required (linkingwith AusAID activities inthis
          area);
     0    assistanceon training inmore cost efficient loggingoperations management and alternative
          approaches to sustainable forest management for industry operators;
     0    review of the current system o f forest royalties, taxes, and levies, includingthe practicality
          imposing some charges as well as review o f the forest revenue collection procedures and
          monitoring;
     0    rationalisation o f forest charges inrelation to securing adequate rent return to landowners for trees
          cut andcompensation for potential rent loss because o f associated forest destruction, while bearing
          inmindreasonableforest harvestingandproduction costs andthe profitability of such operations;
     0    investigation o f the feasibility o f an environmental levy to support the Conservation Trust Fund
          and for a refundable reforestation levy to ensure compliance with reforestationprescriptions (refer
          Sub-component 3.3);
     0    agreement from all relevant parties on establishing an equitable andrational system o f forest
          charges, improved log tracking, andmore efficient revenue collection by the FA;
     0    consideration o f the revenue implications ifthe NFS were to be financially self-sufficient.




                                                         - 40 -

Sub-component3-2: ForestManagementPlanning.-Cost US $1.83 million
 The objective will be to increase GIS data exchange and availability for the purpose o f assessingforest
management andland suitability assessment for various forest management regimes (including conservation
o fbiodiversity). GIS capability will be upgraded inOEC, while FA'Scapacity to integrate such
environment andconservation data into forest management will be enhanced. National forest management
planning capacity at both the national and project site levels will be improved, while continuing research
into improving forest management, cut control and silvicultural practices will be supported. These
planning exercises will be linkedto revision o f the National Forest Plan.


Supported forest management planning activities will include:
        0    strengthening the GIS capabilities inOEC with appropriate computer hardware, updated
             software, additional staff andtraining;
       0     support to strengtheninstitutional GIS hardware and software capacity within NFS to handle
            the delineation o f environmental sensitive andbiodiversity areas inFMAs andtimber permits;
       0     ensuring institutional capability exists within NFS to interface all GIS dataprovided from
             OEC and other stakeholders for forest management planningpurposes and land suitability
             analysis;
       0    methodology for integrationo fpriority conservation needs identifiedby BIORAP and CNA
             into forest planning;
       0     establishing guidelines and protocols betweenNFS andforest industry for the identification
             and removal o f the required conservation areas from potential production forests;
       0     ensuringthe capability is present inNFS to identify optimal sites for conservation set-asides
            withinproductionforest areas for new forest projects, inorder to protect important endemic
             species andecological areas;
       0    further development ofa systemofnational or regional conservation planningwhereby
            conservation set asides within forest projects are sitedand developed strategically to yield the
            greatest conservation benefit taking into consideration ecological processes such as migration
            andwatershed management;
       0    recalculation o f the AAC for logging projects and hence for each province inlight o f the data
            from the growth andyield plots;
       0    supporting research into improved sustainable management and silvicultural prescriptions
            associatedwith forest logging, includinga review o f cutting cycles, cutting limits and tree
            removal above those limits based on species scarcity inthe stand, andupgrading the National
            Forest Development Guidelines;
       0    upgrading o f the national and provincial forestry plans incorporating updatedmanagement data
            based on revisedcutting cycles andAACs;
       0    review o f the FMA proforma document and, on ajoint basis between PNGFA, OEC, and
            landowner representatives, revise the document to make it more relevantto sustainable
            management o fthe forests, including both logger andlandowner responsibilities for forest
            management andmonitoring;
       0    incollaborationwith the AusAIDHRDProject, OEC andforest industryrepresentatives,
            review and update the LCP to include revisions relevant to forest management as well as
            environment and soil conservation.

Sub-component3-3: Post-HarvestForestManagement, andPlantations Cost US $3.16 million.
                                                                               -

Natural production forest management will be improvedby expandedapplication o f viable management
prescriptions and post harvest activities that attempt to more adequately maintain the forest's production



                                                      -41 -

potential. Initially this sub-component will determine the viability o f natural regeneration programs within
PNG, considering such aspectsas security ofthe regeneratedresource and costbenefit analysis. Assuming
a reasonable degree o f viability the sub-component will then buildon and scale up activities that are being
pilotedby NFS inWest New Britain and Western provinces. However, ongoing research, started through
AusAIDprograms, into the potential for naturalregeneration ofmerchantable species and the requiredpre-
and post-harvesting prescriptions to promote such regeneration will also be supported. Ultimately,
responsibility for effective regeneration will be delegatedto loggingcompanies, with landowner
participation, as appropriate.

Work will be undertakento determine the feasibility o f large-scale industrial plantation development by the
private sector inPNG and the conditions necessary to encourage such development. Plantations are not
seen as a substitute for long-term natural forest management, but as an option for already degraded forest
lands and to help maintain or even increaseforest production. ExistingNFS plantations will be assessed
and, as appropriate, managed. They will act as demonstrations and provide growth and yield data.
Incentives required to attract investors will be identified, including: necessaryfinancing arrangements,
feasible landtenure agreements, market potential for plantation wood and the links to such markets, the
financial and technical feasibility o f developing such plantations, andthe appropriate investmentclimate.

Activities will include:
        0    a study to determine the viability o fnatural regeneration systems beingproposed or
             implemented;
        0    augmenting the capacity o f the regeneration unit inNFS to support for regeneration activities;
        0   review o f the results o fregeneration treatments under KGIDP and others conducted by NFS;
        0    establishment o f further regeneration trialsidemonstrations inforest types not covered
             adequately by existing treatments and monitoringo fall such trials;
        0   refmingand development ofregeneration methodology andtreatment prescriptions;
        0    development and implementationo f a strategy, together with regulations and guidelines, to
             effectively have loggingcompanies accept responsibility for natural regeneration, in
             collaboration with landowners, on existing and new concessions, includingthe necessary
             amendments to FMAs and permit agreementsto facilitate such regeneration operations;
        0    contractual agreements with logging companies and landowners at a minimumo f four pilot
            natural regeneration sites and implementation o f such pilots with support from NFS,
             landowner liaison officers, FRIandprovincialforestry staff;
        0   expansion o fpost-harvest regeneration program beyond pilots using lessons learnt
        0   establishment o f a plantation investment promotionunit;
        0    a national levelprocess to identify potential sites for plantation development, andconsideration
            o f development o f a landbank for plantation establishment;
        0   development o f a strategy that rationalises the establishment o fplantations for production
            purposes based on solidmarket access and financially feasible options;
        0   revision o f the policy on reforestationand plantations to support andencourage private sector
            investment, while ensuring equitable distribution o fbenefits to landowners;
        0   feasibility study for investment inplantation projects, includingplantation products market
            investigations, potential contractual arrangements between landowners and investors, species
            growth andyield potential, and financial feasibility that includes judicious risk analysis;
        0   financial support for existing NFS plantation rehabilitation andmanagement andthe
            establishment o fnew plantation trials or demonstrations;
        0   developing a plantation promotionprospectus and soliciting o f potentialplantation investment
            from financing agencies, private investors and landowners.



                                                     - 42 -

Project Component4 US$4.68 million
                       -
EnvironmentalAssessment andMonitoring.

Objective and scope. This component will support adequateenvironmental screening o f all forest
development projects by OEC. A full evaluation o f projects is neededto ensure that forest amenities such
as biodiversity conservation and watershed protection are fully considered and management practices are
appropriate to site-specific ecological circumstances. Technical assistanceto develop institutional
capacities will be provided, so that OEC can fully exercise its environmental andregulatory mandate for
the forestry sector.

Sub-component4-1: EnvironmentalAssessment, Monitoringand Regulation CostUS $3.86.   -
This activity will develop and test rigorous assessment and monitoring methodologies andoperational
systems underthe new environmental regulatory framework beingenactedunderthe AusAID-assisted
Environment Act legislation. Experiencedenvironmental assessment andenforcement professionals will be
based in OEC's Environment Division. They will assist it to undertake environmental assessments o f forest
projects, and will provide counterpart training and assist indeveloping operational manuals.

This sub-component will also support legislative and regulatoryreformproposals, includingthe new
Environment Act. Itwill provide for any subsequentlyneededpolicy development, training or management
activities

Activities under this sub-component will:
             provide support for field-based environmentalplanning approvals, permit condition-setting,
             inspection and enforcement withinthe forest sector under a new regulatory framework;
             carry out counterpart training o f assessment and enforcement staff;
             develop environmentalpermit application and (user pays) management fee system options, and
             assist with implementing the chosen approaches;
             provide further technical assistance andworkshops to assist formulation o f a full range o f
             policies and procedures under a new Environment Act, relevant to the forest sector;
             support outreach to explain and buildsupport for the new environmental regulatory
             framework;
             develop clear criteria and a systematic approach for reviewingold environmental approvals, in
             order to bringthem inline with the new Act's standards.

Sub-component4-2: EnvironmentalMonitoringby Local Communities CostUS $0.83 million.
                                                                              -
This activity will augment government activities, by providing training andtechnical assistance to selected
individuals or groups living within conservation areas and sustainable forest concession projects, so that
they can monitor activities inconservation and sustainable forest management.

Activities will:
        0    develop systems, training inputs, a methodology and a legal basis for environmental monitoring
             by community members;
        0   develop collaborativemethodology and materials to train community-basedenvironmental and
            forest concession monitors;
        0   test procedures and pilots in a representative set o f conservation and forestry projects.




                                                     - 43 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
               PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT

                                                                                                   Local                Foreign                     Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                           I    million             US $million             US $million
Landowner Forest Decision-Malung                                                                     5.66                   4.49                     10.15
Conservation Trust Fund                                                                              3.65                  10.54                     14.19
Sustainable Forest Management                                                                        3.17                    5.07                      8.24
Environmental Assessment andMonitoring                                                               2.26                    2.16                      4.42
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 14.74                  22.26                     37.00
Physical Contingencies                                                                               0.07                    0.15                      0.22
Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.92                    0.98                      1.90
                                         Total Project Costs1
                                                                 Front-end fee               I                               0.17                      0.17
                                   Total Financing Required                                  I      15.73         1        23.56           I         39.29

                                                                                                    Local                Foreign                     Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                              US $million          US $million              US $million
Goods                                                                                                   0.35                      1.34                     1.69
Civil Works                                                                                             0.25                     0.08                      0.33
Services and Training                                                                                   3.15                     8.11                     11.26
Grants and Awards                                                                                       2.87                    11.33                     14.20
Recurrent Costs                                                                                         8.12                      1.40                     9.52
Physical Contingencies                                                                                  0.07                     0.15                      0.22
Price Contingencies                                                                                     0.92                     0.98                      1.90
                                                          Total Project CostsI                        15.73                     23.39                     39.12
                                                                      Front-end fee                                              0.17                      0.17
                                                Total Financing Required                              15.73                     23.56                     39.29


   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) andthe total project cost, net of taxes, i s 22.29 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio i s 77.88% of
  total project cost net o f taxes.




                                                                     - 44 -

                                Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT



         [For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]




costs:                                 22.2                      22.2

Net Benefits:

IRR:                                     23                        20



IIfthe difference between the present value offinancial andeconomic flows is large andcannot beexplainedby
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference i s warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits i s less
than that o f economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

Summary ofBenefits and Costs:
InAnnex 4.3, the incremental cost analysis for the GEF financedcomponents ofthis project principally
the Conservation Trust FundComponent is presented. N o further analysis ofthe economics o f this
                                               -                                                          -

component is undertaken inthis analysis.

This economic evaluation incorporates the Landowner Decision-Making component, the Environmental
Assessment andMonitoring component, andthe Sustainable Forest Management component o fthe project.
While many o f the benefits o f landowner involvement and environmental assessment are difficult to
quantify, the designofthis project is basedon the precept that these components are both essential to the
achievement o f sustainable forest management inPapua New Guinea, for which at least some
quantification of benefits can be done. Details o f benefit assumptions are included ina working paper
completed for this project. The benefits included inthe calculation o freturns to the three components are:

      .    an assumption that achievement o f sustainability will encourage a (small) amount o f carbon
          offset investmentinPNG's forests, amounting to an annual purchase o f 1000ha o f carbon forest,
          from year 4 of the project onwards, at a price o f $10per tonne o f carbon sequesteredby such

      .   investment;
          an estimate that introduction o f resource prices andmethods o f sale, and the correct incentives for
          logging operations to utilize the resource both more efficiently, and more carehlly (interms o f the
          state o f the regenerating forest) will yield a net increase invalue to the sector as a whole o f $0.80
          per cubic metre oflog volume extracted;
          an estimate that the value o f improved soil and water management under sustainable forest
          management will amount to $2 per hectare o f forest area logged over, for a period o f 8 years, after
          which this effect i s assumedto reduce to zero.



                                                         - 45 -

The costs o f the project are taken to be those estimated for the three components, and an estimate o f costs
the private sector would incur to adapt logging operations to sustainability guidelines andcodes ofpractice.
The costs are shown inthe table below (units $million):

                             Year 1       Year2       Year3          Year4       Year5         Year6

  Sustainable Forest         1.878        2.231        1.345         1.042        1.225        .968
  Mgt.
  Landowner Decision.        1.702         1.303       1.321         1.427        1.120        1.120
  Environment                0.744        0.808       0.646          0.723       0.616         0.504
  Assessment
  Additional Costs to        0.500         1.ooo
  LoggingFirms

The base case benefit cost andrate o f return calculations, as shown inthe table, indicate that returns to
investment insustainableforest management, including the cost of important relatedinvestments in
landowner participation inforest management, and an effective environmental assessment andmonitoring
system, are quite favorable. Since, as will be outlined under MainAssumptions below, these calculations
are basedon highly conservative estimates o fbenefit parameters (which also involves complete exclusion
o f benefits known to be important, but difficult to quantify), it is concluded here that the general case for
investment insustainable forest management inPapuaNew Guinea, as proposedinthis project document,
i s sound.

MainAssumptions:
For reasons explained inmore depth inthe working paper, it i s not possible to compare sustainable forest
management to forest land conversion options in PNGin an analytical way, at present. The limitations on
investment capital to allow conversion at any scale comparable with that o f the forests, the uncertainties o f
marketoutcomes whenhighvolumes of agricultural or tree crop products that would result from such
conversion are placed on the market, the general lack of knowledge about what are efficient market prices
for standing log volume, and evenmore so for other forest goods, services andvalues, so that valid
comparisons with alternative landuses can be made, all render attempts to calculate comparative outcomes
from the national economic viewpoint impossible.
Underthese circumstances, the best that canbe done is to place values on some of the benefits that will
arise from sustainable forest management, and assess whether these alone comprise a reasonable economic
returnto this activity. It can safely be assumed, inthe PapuaNew Guinea context, that the social, cultural,
general environmental andbiodiversity protection impacts o fretaining effective forest cover are preferable
to conversion options. Thus, ifthe opportunity costs o fretaining forest under sustainable management
(linked, o f course, to complete protection ofareas o fhighbiodiversity value) are shown by this exercise to
be low, or zero, then the project isjustified.
To ensure that this calculation does not overestimate the sum o f goods and services from forest retention
generatedby sustainable management, where specific benefits can be quantitatively estimated in some
way, they are done so most conservatively in this analysis. And, where the quantification o f a benefit i s
difficult, even ifthat benefiti s widely recognized as highlyvaluable (biodiversity protection is such a case),
thenno value is assignedto it inthis analysis.




                                                     - 46 -

Some o f the basic assumptions made inthe analysis are:


         the basic difference between sustainable and non-sustainable forest management inPapuaNew
         Guinea is not the same as incountries such as Indonesia, or the Solomon Islands, where volumes
         well inexcess ofthe national increment the forest is capable ofproducing are beingextracted. In
         PNG, many specific logging operations currently inplace are unsustainable inthe particular
         forest area inwhich they are occurring, so that clan groups and others directly associatedwith
         that area will face a non-sustainable situation, and some immediate consequences from the
         environmental impacts o f poorly managed forest operations. Inthe longer run, ifindividual
         logging operations are permitted to log ina manner which reduces (or eliminates) the capacity o f
         that forest area to regenerate effective forest cover, then the overall capacity o f PNG's forest
         estate to produce log volume, and the range o f other forest goods and services, will be reduced
         even in the situation where the aggregate volume of logs being removed does not exceed the
         estimated sustainable national cut (managed under the correct slivicultural and management
         prescriptions);
          log volume output i s assumedin this analysis to rise from 2.5 million cubic metres inyear 1 o f
         the project (current monthly outputs from PNG suggest an outcome inthis order) rising to 3.3
         million cubic metres inperpetuityafter 2 years, by which time it is assumedthe Asian markets for
         logs will have recovered from the current economic downturn inthe region, to some extent. This
         latter figure is not as highas some annual output figures in the recent past, prior to the downtum,
         but is assumedto be all that GOPNGwill want to approve for export undernew sustainability
         guidelines, andthe capacity o f official forestry agencies to manage this process;
          the periodo f analysis i s 25 years. This excludes any valuation o f standingtimber o f harvestable
         size which returns to the stand after logging, since the period which needs to elapse before second
         rotation harvesting can take place under sustainable conditions in PNGwill be at least 35 years,
         andinmany cases probably longer. At reasonable discountingrates inthe developing country
         context, the present value o f such standing timber i s marginal, unless assumptions about
         significantly increasing real prices for such material are made for the second rotation. This
         argument may actually have some merit, for this type o f forest, but it cannot be evaluated inany
         analytical way, andit is excluded from the base case analysis here;
         no value is assignedto biodiversity benefits from sustainable forest management, andno general
         value for the carbon sequestration benefits from sustainable management are included - only a
         minimal amount for the small fraction o f this which PNGmight actually be able to sell to
         intemational purchasers is included. No value is assigned to the social, cultural and economic
         benefits which would accrue to clan groups being able to continue their traditional forest
         dependent way o f life, under sustainable forest management as opposed to conversion.

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:
    *    the most sensitive factor inthis analysis i s the $0.80 per cubic meter estimate o f net value added
         to the sector throughimplementation o f sustainable forest management. Ifthis i s reduced by
         50%, the ERR for the project becomes 9%, and the benefit cost ratio declines to 0.9,at a 12%
         discount rate. It i s for this reason, as explained inthe working paper accompanying this annex,
         that an extremely conservative value for the net value added to the sector from sustainability was
         employed inthe base case;
   *     the impact ofreducingthe estimate of soil andwater impacts is less: eliminating this benefit
         reduces the ERRfor the project to 22% andthe BCR to 1.42;



                                                       - 47 -

           the impact ofreducingthe carbon impact from sustainability is likewise not particularly sensitive:
           reducing the price o f carbon traded by 50% (or the area o f forest assumedinthe analysis to enter

     .     trading inthis way) reduces the ERRto 20%, and the BCR to 1.29;
            the analysis is relatively sensitive to changesincosts assumptions,due to the incidence ofthese
           early inthe cycle. A 10% aggregate rise incosts reducesthe ERRby 12% andthe BCR by 15%,
           to 20% and 1.33 respectively.

FinancialRateof Return and FiscalImpacts

The project is estimated to have a financial return o f21%. This is somewhat smaller than the overall
economic return estimated above, because the benefits o f soil and water impacts are excluded from the
financial analysis. The principal benefit o f raisedvalue added inthe sector through the application o f
sustainablemanagement applies equally in economic or financial terms.

As noted inthe table above, the additional cost to logging companies to comply with stronger monitorining
andenforcement activities is estimated to be $1.5 million, andit is assumedGOPNG will subsidize this
cost as necessary. On the other hand, more effective supervision o f activities inthe field will produce both
extractive efficiency effects, andimproved tracking of actual volumes extracted, reducing the possibilities
for nonpayment on extracted volume, and improving the accuracy o f assessment andthe efficiency o f
collection o froyalties andexport taxes. An estimate o f $6 million for the life o f the project has beenmade
for this figure. This i s likely to be conservative: the implementation o f an export inspection service for log
exporting operations inPapuaNew Guinea some years ago is estimated to have yielded about $20 million
inadditional (previously uncollected) revenues to GOPNGinthe early stages ofthat program.

The Bank has had major engagement inthe larger issue o f taxes and royalties for forest production inPNG,
but these have beendone inthe context o f adjustment operations for which this project is designedas a
                                                                     -
follow-up activity - and therefore the very large fiscal gains to both GOPNG, and to individual landowner
groups, through re-designed export tax and landowner royalty scales intorducedunder adjustment
operations have not been included inthis analysis.

GlobalComponent,ConservationTrust Fund Incremental Cost Analysis

BroadDevelopment Goals

PapuaNew Guinea's (PNG) forests are part o f the so-called Malesianphytogeographicalzone which
extends from Peninsular Thailand inthe northwest to PNG and adjacent islands in the southeast. PNG
covers 46.3 million hectares, o f which about 36 millionha are still covered by closed natural forest;
ranging from high altitude cloud andmontane forests inthe highlands, hill forests on the slopes, to lowland
mixed forest and mangroves nearer the coast. PNGs forests are currently the least degraded forests inthis
region, but the current trend is for most o f these forests to be industrially logged. PNGhas a very limited
land areaunder protection and conservation status.

The Forest Act (1993) provides the primary foundation for efforts to reformthe PNG forest sector. The
Act has set the basis for sustainable utilization o f forest resources. It addresses the need for a decentralized
decisionmakingprocess inregards to PNG's forest resource allocation. The World Bank's 1995 Economic
Recovery Loan provided a strong set o f forest conditionalities which are designed to move the industry
towards more sustainable commercial harvests andprovide the policy framework necessary for
conservation set-asides. The government's medium term development strategy highlightsthe importance o f
sustainable forest management and transparency inthe forest sector.


                                                       - 48 -

The key development objectives o f the Forest andConservation Project are to:
    a) improve landowner participation inforest use decisions, their access to the benefitso f sustainable
         forest management, their awarenesso f forest management and conservation issues, and
         accessibility to a conservation designation for their land;
    b) establish a mechanismfor providing significant, sustainable in-country funding for conservation
         area establishment coupled to community-driven sustainable resource use;
    c) improve the capacity o f GOPNG to plan, implement and enforce sustainableandenvironmentally
         responsible forest management; including a broadening of forest management options; and
    d) upgrade the GoPNG's capability to assess the environmental acceptability offorest resource
         operations andreview or reject proposals accordingly, to be followed by regular andeffective
         monitoring.

Baseline

Inthe absence ofGEF support, the focus of the government efforts inthe forestry sector wouldbe on
upgrading the performance o f commercial forest operations so that exploitation o f the country's rich timber
resourcesi s done in a more sustainablemannerwith less negative environmental impact. Additionally,
there would be some effort to achieve more diversity inthe type, scale andintensity o f forest management
activities andto strengthen landowner involvement. This would involve continued reform o f forest sector
policies, creation of field capabilities for monitoringtimber operations, and strengthening o f environmental
assessment and enforcement institutions. A modest share o f donor support to the forest sector would likely
be directed to enhancing biodiversity conservation, most probably by supporting a biodiversity
conservation trust fund.

             LandownerForestDecision-Making-Under            the baseline scenario, support will be provided
             for a program to make landowners better equippedto make critical management decisions over
             use o f their forest lands. Landowners would be provided information and tools to consider and
             implement options for sustainable forest area management. Cost $6.4 million.

             Conservation Trust Fund-Under the baseline scenario, it i s expected that donor organizations
             active inthe realm o f alternative development options, such as AusAID, other bilateral donors
             and intemationalNGOs, could reasonably be expected to redirect approximately $5.0 million
             o f their expected biodiversity conservation financing into a conservation trust fund.

             Sustainable Forest Management-Control         over destructive forest logging operations will be
             improved. The emphasis will be upon minimizing environmentalimpacts o fproduction
             forestry andensuring it maximally contributes development. Cost $8.1 million.

             EnvironmentalAssessment andMonitoring-There            i s to be a major effort to ensure that
             environmental assessment andmonitoringo fproposed forestry andother development projects
             are diligently carried out. Cost $4.3 million.

Implementation o f the Baseline Scenario is expected to cost approximately $23.8 million. This program i s
expected to produce a more sustainable forest industry, reduced environmental impacts, more diversity o f
forest management type and scales, and more involvement o f landowners inproduction forest area
management decisions. Biodiversity impacts would generally be positive and include strengthenedcapacity
to assess environmental impacts of development projects, enforcement o f timber regulations to protect
waterways and sensitive sites and some individual conservation projects. However, biodiversity values


                                                      - 49 -

would not be fully integrated into sector policy development andtimber operation planning and
implementation. Significant, unmet demandfor altemative conservation-based development options from
landowner communities would continue, due to the lack o f a long-term compensatory financing mechanism.

Global Environment Objectives

The global environmental objective is to better conserve the rich biodiversity and important ecosystem
functionality o f Papua New Guinea's rainforests. It achieves this by establishing conservation areas and
community based sustainable management (the GEF altemative), with sustainable, environmentally
responsible forest harvest o f natural forests inother areas (the baseline and other project components).

Specific objectives inpursuit o f global environmental benefits include: (i)  establishment o f a conservation
strategy that is culturally appropriate, optimally harnesses customary land tenure, and facilitates
widespread conservation and sustainable development activities that maintain biodiversity and ecosystem
values over large rainforest expanses; (ii) maintenance o f effective forest cover, especially inareas near
sensitive conservation sites; (iii)
                                  establishment o f a financial mechanism able to support landowner based
Conservation activities; (iv) promotion o f increased landowner participationin, andbenefits from,
sustainable management and conservation activities.

GEF Altemative

The GEF altemative comprises:

a)      Landowner ForestDecision-Making-Landowner              forest decision-making baseline activities will
incorporate a specific conservation focus. This would include development o f a policy framework and
mechanism that allows land groups to declare their lands as conservation and sustainable-use areas. This
requires revision o f policy and procedures for securing landowner-initiated conservation designation,
greater emphasis upon conservation awareness and education, outreach activities andlegal advice for
landowners wishing to pursue conservation. Total cost: $8.4 million.

b)      Conservation Trust Fund-Under         the GEF Altemative, financial assistancewould be provided to
support landowner based altematives to large-scale logging and establishment o f conservation and
sustainable-use activities in forest areas. The requiredfundingwas calculated by estimating the resources
generated from royalties on large scale logging operations andthe level o f landowner community demand
for altemative livelihoodand conservation options (see Attachment 1). Based on this analysis, it appears
that about $2 million is neededon an annual basis to support a full range o f conservation-related activities.
This would be achieved by establishing a long-term financing mechanism, which would be fundedon a
sinking fundbasisduring a demonstration phase ($5.8 million) and, if successful, on an endowment basis
thereafter ($30.0 million, o f which $10million GEF, $20 million other donors). Total cost: $35.0 million.

c)      Sustainable ForestManagement-same           as for baseline. Total cost: $9.2 million.

d)      Environmental Assessment andMonitoring-same             as for baseline. Total cost: $4.2 million.

        Total cost o f GEF Altemative: $56.8 million

Incremental Costs
The cost o fthe baseline scenario is estimated at $24.8 million (base costs). The GEF altemative is



                                                     - 50 -

estimated at S56.8 million, resulting inan incremental cost o f approximately $ 32 million. Inkeepingwith
the GEF operational principle o f leveraging GEF resources, cost-sharing for the endowment mechanism
will be an integral feature, relying on domestic and international resources. The GEF i s therefore asked to
fund $17 million o fthe incrementalcost. GEF funding would comprise $ 6 millionfor Phase 1and $11
million for Phase 2. GEF funding for the endowment component o f Phase 2 ($10 million) would be
conditional on successful implementation o f trust operations inPhase 1, matching commitments to the
endowment from other donors, anddemonstrated demandfor funds for conserving forests o f high
biodiversity value. The remainder o f the total incremental cost will be borne by co-financiers.
Attachment 1

1)      Present flow o f royalties direct to landowners from logging operations inPNG is approximately
        US$15 milliodyear.

2)      Indications from landowner awareness and other activities are that at least 30% o f landowner
        groups would prefer (or at least agree to) activities other than commercial logging intheir areas. It
        i s highly likely that at least halfo f the sites involvedin this figure would merit investment in
        conservation or low-impact sustained use management. Thus, some 15% o f landowners involved
        inlarge-scale logging are expectedto be interested infinancing for alternative conservation based
        activities.

3)      Inorder to expect that conservation activities bepursuedinany particular area, it isreasonableto
        assume that income bearing alternatives to logging in such areas would require at least the
        equivalent of the royalty yield to become established.

4)      Combining these estimates (USSl5 x .15), it is suggestedthat an annual flow o f approximately
        US$2 million would be needed to support a program large enough to take up anticipated demand
        for alternatives to commercial logging. This would require an endowment trust fund that is
        capitalized to at least the US$ 30 million mark.




                                                        - 51 -

     Component           Cost Cateeorv     Cost (US$    DomesticBenefit           Global Benefit

Landowner Forest      Baseline                 6.4   Larger and more
Decision-Making and                                  sustainable benefits
Project Management    PMU                      3.5   from forests, and more
Unit                                                 equitable distribution
                      GEF Alternative          8.4   Same as above, plus      Enhanced
                                                     landowners can access    conservation o f
                                                     conservation option in   biodiversity in
                                                     addition to sustainable  conservation areas
                                                     use option               through voluntary
                                                                              action
                      Increment                1.5
Conservation Trust    Baseline                 0
Fund
                      GEF Alternative        35.0                             Significantly
                      (inclusive o f                                          enhanced and
                      assumed additional                                      sustainable
                      donor participation)                                    conservation o f
                                                                              biodiversity
                      Increment              30.0

Sustainable Natural   Baseline                 8.1   More sustainable         Less destructive
Forest Management                                    benefit flows from       logging helps to
                                                     forest harvests          conserve biodiversity
                                                                              inproduction forests
                      GEF Alternative          8.7
                      Increment                0

Environmental         Baseline                 4.3   Minimization o f         Some enhancement
Assessment and                                       adverse environmental    o f biodiversity
Monitoring                                           impacts o f development  conservation in
                                                     projects                 production forests
                      GEF Alternative          4.7
                      Increment                0
Total                 Baseline                18.8
                      GEF Alternative         56.8
                      Incremental Cost        32.8




                                             - 52 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
               PAPUA NEW GUINEA FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
                                       Years Ending
                                           2007
                          II                      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                            Yeari  I Year2   I  Year3     1 year4   1 Year5   1 Year6    1 Year 7
 Total Financing
 Required
  Project Costs
   InvestmentCosts             4.6       4.3         2.7       13.0       2.8       1.5       0.5
  RecurrentCosts               1.4       1.8         1.8        1.9       1.9       1.5       0.0
 Total Project Costs           6.0       6.1         4.5       14.9       4.7       3.0        0.5
              Front-endfee     0.2       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
 Total Financing
 -.                            6.2       6.1         4.5       14.9       4.7       3.0        0.5
 -1nancing
   IBRDllDA                    1.4       3.3         2.8        4.3       3.3      1.5         0.5
   Government                  0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
       Central                 1.o       1.o         0.7        0.8       0.7      0.6         0.0
       Provincial              0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
   User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
   Others                      6.0       0.0         0.0       11.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
1Total Project Financing       7.4       3.3         2.8       15.3       3.3      1.5         0.5




                                            - 53 -

                    Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
            PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT

Procurement

ProcurementAssessment.Duringappraisal,procurementinterviewswere heldwith the Procurement
Officer inthe Forestry Departmentandwith the TechnicalAdvisor to the Departmentof Works andthe
Central Supply andTenders Board.These interviews,inadditionto other documentsthat were reviewed,
indicateda decidedneedto improveexistingprocurementpracticesfor this project.As a result of the
findingsofthis assessment,it is believedthat procurementcredibilityandprojecteconomywouldbe
significantlyimprovedwith procurement activitiesmanagedas part of a well-organizedProject
ManagementUnit (PMU). The projectPMUwouldbe staffed, by project effectiveness, with a qualified
procurementofficer who would beresponsiblefor all projectprocurementandwho would serve as a
memberof the Forestry & ConservationProject Tender Board(FCPTB).In-servicetraininginBank
procurementprocedureswouldbeprovidedas aprojectexpense.

At present, the overallrisk assessment ofBorrower'sprocurementcapability is ratedas "high" but could
be significantlyimprovedby modifyingthe Borrower'sexistingprocurementpractices inaccordancewith
the followingparagraph. These improvementsto existingprocurementpracticesinPNGwould
significantlyreduce corruptionandmisappropriationofpublic funds.

Inorder to improveexistingICBandNCBprocurementpracticesandto increase transparency inthe
biddingprocess, Governmentwouldprovidethe Bankwith a SupplementalLetter agreeingto: (1)
establishanindependentProjectTender Boardas definedherein; (2) utilize standardbiddingdocuments
approvedby the Bank; (3) not limitbiddingto Nationalfirms or manufacturers; (4) make bidevaluation
proceduresavailable to all bidders; (5) open, readaloud, andtabulatethe results of sealedwrittenbids in
the presenceofbiddersrepresentatives;(6) informall biddersinwriting ofthe bidevaluationresults; and
(7) develop a timely andeffectivebidprotestprocedureacceptableto the Bank.

ProcurementGuidelines.Procurementofall goods, works, andother contractedservicesunderthe
project, regardlessof funding source,wouldbe carriedout inaccordancewith the provisionsofthe Bank's
"Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" publishedby the Bank inJanuary 1995
andrevisedin January andAugust 1996, September 1997,andJanuary 1999.The World Bank's Standard
BiddingDocumentswouldbe usedfor procurementof goods andworks usingICBprocedures, andNCB
as far as practical.

As this projectincludesprocurementbaseduponICBprocedures,a GeneralProcurementNotice (GPN) is
mandatoryandwouldbepreparedby the Borrower andupdatedannuallyfor all outstandingprocurement
andforwardedto the Bank for publicationinthe UnitedNations' "Development Business" as providedfor
inPara. 2.7 ofthe Guidelines.

Consultants'serviceswould be procuredin accordance with the provisionso fthe Bank's "Guidelines
Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers "publishedby the Bank inJanuary
1997,andrevisedinSeptember 1997,andJanuary 1999. Consultants' Terms of Referenceand
qualificationswouldbereviewedandfoundacceptableby the Bank. The Bank's StandardRequestfor
Proposals, Selectionof Consultants datedJuly 1997,revisedApril 1998and July 1999,wouldbe usedfor
consultant contracts with firms.




                                                  - 54 -

Prior to contracts beingawarded by the Project Management Unit (PMU), they would be reviewedand a
written evaluationwould be made by a three-member "FCPTB appointed by the Ministero fFinance.
Prior to negotiations, the Project Manager would be employed and the Project Accountant would be
appointed by Government upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


CivilWorks: Civil works for the project are estimated to cost about US$0.40 million equivalent
(Financing: BANK US$O.18 million, GEF US$0.04 million, GOPNG US$ 0.18 million). "Civil works
would include upgrading or establishment o f regional offices for the Sustainable Forest Management
component and the Environmental Assessment & Monitoring component; office renovations for the
Conservation Trust Fund(CTF); and staff housing for the Sustainable Forest Management component.
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures usingthe Bank's standardbiddingdocuments for very
small works contracts, or other biddingdocuments satisfactory to the Bank, would be usedfor all civil
works contracts costing up to US$200,000 each. Prior review o f documents by the Bank would be
required for all contracts with value of US$50,000 equivalent andover.

Goods: Goods for the project are estimated to cost about US$1.95 million equivalent (Financing: BANK
US$1.61 million, GEF US$O.l2 million, GOPNG US$0.23million). Goods to be procured would include
vehicles, office furniture andequipment, computers and associatedequipment, field equipment and
communication equipment for use by the IAs. To the extent possible and practicable, contracts for goods
andequipment wouldbe combinedinto packages estimated to cost the equivalent ofUS$lOO,OOO or more.
Goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$400,000 equivalent may be procuredthrough NCB procedures. Goods contracts estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO or more would be bidusingICB procedures. Procurement o freadily available, off-the-shelf
goods or standard specification commodities, valued less than USS20,OOO per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceedUS$lOO,OOO equivalent may be procured usingshopping procedures acceptable to
the Bank, withcomparison ofwritten quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. The aggregate
value o f goods procuredusingICB procedures i s estimated at US$1.45 million. Vehicles andcomputer
equipmentwould be packagedandbidusingICB procedures. All goods procuredusingICB procedures
would be subject to the Bank's prior review inagreement with Appendix 1 o f the Guidelines. Goods
packaging for the first project year would be presented at negotiations for the Bank'sreview and "No
Objection".

Margin of Preference. A margin o fpreference would be applied to goods manufacturedinthe territory o f
the Borrower inaccordance with Paragraphs2.54 and 2.55 and Appendix 2 o f the Guidelines.

Services. Services are estimated to cost about US$11.08 million equivalent and would include technical
assistance, seminars, workshops, andtraining. (Financing: BANKUS$8.76 million, GEF US$1.37
million, GOPNG US$0.96 million). The project envisages about 500 personmonths o f technical
assistance over the first three years. Terms o f reference for technical assistance would be prepared by
each IA with contracts beingprepared by the PMU. Technical assistance is estimated to cost about
US$9.06 million equivalent andwould include, inter-alia, consultants to assist the Borrower and
stakeholders in: (i)improving forest planning, operations, management, andmonitoring, and (ii)     involving
communities participating more actively in forest conservation and environmentalprotection. Training for
the project is estimated to cost about US$2.02 millionequivalent andwould include seminars, workshops
and in-service training designed to strengtheninstitutional capacity and community capacity to
self-manage forest resources.



                                                      - 55 -

All contracts with consulting firms with value ofUSS100,OOO or more would be contracted usingQuality
andCost Based Selection (QCBS) with the competitive evaluation being made usingthe appropriate terms
set out in Section I1o f the Guidelines. Firms whose contract value would be less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent may be contracted basedupon their qualifications for the assignment (CQ as described andin
agreement with Section 111, Paragraph 3.7. Individuals may be contracted based upon their qualifications
for the assignment as described in Section V o f the Guidelines. One-year extensions o f individual
contracts-may be camed out using Single Source (SS) selection procedures as described in Section 111,
Para 3.8 through 3.11. Consulting assignments estimated to cost greater than o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent
would be advertised inthe Development Business and a national newspaper seeking "expressions o f
interest" with the evaluation being made usingQCBS procedures. Auditors would be selectedusingthe
"Least Cost Selection" procedure as outlined in Section 111,Paragraph 3.18, o f the Guidelines.

Grants and Subgrants. Subgrants for the project are estimated at USS16.99million equivalent
(Financing: GEF USS16.99 million). Grants would be targeted to local communities, individuals,
privately owned enterprises, NGOs and other organizations in support o f forestry conservation projects.
These organizations would have the responsibility to train localyouth and/or village groups who, inturn,
would supply materials and/or labor to implement conservation activities. Fundsdeposited into and
managed by the Conservation Trust Fund(CTF) would be committed, disbursed, and accounted for
according to procedures detailed inthe Manual o f CTF Operations and agreed to at negotiations.

Recurrent Costs. Project incrementalrecurrent expensesare estimated at US$11.11millionand would be
financed by the Bank on a gradually declining basis over the life o f the project. At completion o f the
six-year project, financing o f recurrent costs would be the Borrower's responsibility. Recurrent costs
would include salaries and allowances (USS5.44 million) for additional incremental contracted staff
requiredto implementthe project (Financing: BANKUS$2.79 million, GEFUS$0.57 millionGOPNG
USS2.08million). Also included, as recurrent costs, would be incrementaloperational expenses
(US$5.67 million) including office supplies andconsumables, local travel & per diem, office rental,
utilities, andmaintenance andrepairs to facilities and equipment (Financing: BANKUS$2.60 million,
GEFUS$1.52 million, GOPNG US$1.49 million).

Miscellaneous, locally available off-the-shelf supply items such as pencils, pens, note pads, staples, small
office supplies, etc., would be procured annually using shopping procedures. The supplier would make
goods available to the P M U andthe IAs, within minimum/maximum contracted quantity limits, at the unit
price quoted inthe contract.

Prior Review Thresholds. Prior review by the Bank would includethe following:
1. Civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of USS50,OOO or more;
2. Goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o fUSS100,OOO or more
3. All TORS,short lists, RFPs and employment contracts for each consulting firm or individual
     estimated to cost the equivalent o f USS100,OOO or more for firms, and US$50,000 or more for
     individuals; and
4. Modifications to all contracts as set forth inAppendix 1, Paragraph 3 o f the Guidelines,
     notwithstandingthe contract value.

The above would result inprior review o f about 25 percent o f all contracts and40 percent o f the amounts
financed by the Bank. A systematic ex-post review would be carried out during the planned 2-3 annual
project supervision missions resultinginBank review o f about 40 percent o f all contracts. Confirmation
would be sought on prior review arrangements at negotiations.



                                                    - 56 -

Disbursements
DisbursementPeriod. Fundsfor the project would be disbursedover about a six-year period. The loan
i s expected to become effective around March 31,2001. It i s estimated that the project would be
completedby December 31, 2006 andthe loan would be closed no later than June 30,2007. An estimated
delay o f about six months has been assumedbetween contract signing and first disbursement from Bank
funds. The annual estimated disbursementsare indicatedina table on the first page ofthis Project
Appraisal Document.
RetroactiveFinancing. An amount equal to US$250,000 o f eligibleexpenditures made after November
30, 1999, may be financed retroactively from the project's Special Account. These funds would be used
to accelerateproject implementationby allowing a project manager andkey project staff to be employed
prior to project effectiveness and for limitedfirst-year technical assistance and studies to be commenced.
LoanAllocations. The following table shows the allocations from the loanproceeds. The total cost o fthe
six-year project, includingcontingencies andtaxes i s estimated at US$39.11 million. "Local taxes and
import duties, estimated at about USS1.77 million, are included inthe total project cost estimates.
Payment o f taxes andduties would be the responsibility o f the Borrower andwould not be eligible for
financing from loan funds. Parallel financing by the Bank and GEF would fund for the project: (a) about
55 percent (US$0.22 million) o fthe US$0.40 million estimated costs o f Civil Works under the project;
(b) about 89 percent (US$1.73 million) of the US$1.95 millionestimated costs o fGoods for the project;
(c) 92 percent (US$11.77million) of the USS12.83 million estimated cost o f Services; 100 percent
                                                                                           4'
(US$14.58 million) o f the cost of Grants and Awards; and 63 percent (US$5.88 million) o f the estimated
US$9.36 million Recurrent Costs.

DisbursementProcedure. Disbursements for this Project would be aimed toward compliance with the
principles and concepts of the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Under LACI,
semi-annual planning projections would be the mechanismfor making disbursement estimates and
measuring project performance. Quarterly disbursements would be tied to financial statements, project
progress reports, andprocurement management reports. Initially the P M Uwould follow the Banks
traditional disbursement system. From the outset, it would move onto Quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs). The move onto Ph4R-baseddisbursements would be considered within 18 months from
date o f Board Approval.
Untilsuchtime as the PMR-based disbursementprocedure hasbecome effective, disbursementsfrom the
loan would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation until
disbursements from the loan would have reached USS 1,000,000. Most loan funds would be disbursed
through SOEs and PMRs. For all other expenditures, e.g., contracts for consultant services above
threshold levels o f US$50,000 with individuals or $100,000 with firms, goods contracts exceeding
US$100,000, works contract exceeding $50,000, and all expenditures for training seminars and
incrementalcosts and other contracting services exceeding $20,000, full supporting documentation would
be required.
ParallelFinancing. As notedinthe maintext, the GEFgrant is financing aspectsoftwo components o f
the project inparallel with IBRD.To avoid the possibility o f duplication or misclassification o f
expenditures inthese common components, the table below has beenadded to this annex, and it specifies
the purposes for which the GEF financing is to be applied inthese components. It constrains technical
assistanceto the hire o f specialists inlandowner conservation legislation, training to that directly related
to development o f extension capacity inthe area of landowner conservation activities, and (minor
amounts) for recurrent costs incurredby GOPNG in liaising with the CTF specifically on aspects o f



                                                     - 57 -

landowner conservation activities. This specification meets the requirementthat the GEF funds address
the incremental purposes discussedinAnnex 4, and inthe maintext ofthis document. It shouldfurther be
noted that procurement and disbursemento f GEF funds usedinthese two components will be under the
direct management o f the Landowner Decision and Organizations Unit,which is a part o fthe Project
Management Unit,and therefore subject to the financial andprocurement management requirements
specified for that unit.This should further assist in avoiding duplication, overlaps or confusion inthe
allocation o f funds from the two sources in these areas.


Parallel GEF Financing Breakdown
(US$ Millions)

  Project Component/ Sub-              Total           Tech. Assist.      Training        Recurrent
          component                 Allocation        (Conservation     (Landowner        (GOPNG
                                   from GEF             legislation     conservation    agency liaison
                                                        specialists)     extension        with CTF)
                                                                         specialists)
 Landowner Forest Decision
 Making
 - - Development Options                1.15               0.70              0.20            0.25
      Study                             0.07                                 0.07
   - StrengtheningLR
     Mechanisms                         0.68               0.60              0.08
   - LG Based Cons. and
     Resource Mgt.
 Environmental Assessment
 and Monitoring
   - Env. Monitoring by                                                      0.05            0.04
     Local Communities

Executing Agency Trust Account (EATA). The project would open an EATA account inPNG Kina ina
commercial bank inPort Moresby found acceptable to the Bank. As a condition to effectiveness, GoPNG
would deposit an initial amount equal to US$250,000 into this account. This amount is estimated to cover
the entire project's expenditures for the first three-month period o f operations. As expenditures increase,
the amount inthis EATA account may need to be increased to meet project expenses. Periodically, as
needed, funds would be withdrawn from the Bank/GEF Special Accounts and deposited inthe EATA
account to cover the reimbursable portion o f the BaMGEF expenses paid from the EATA account. The
government would also deposit further funds to replenish is share o f expendituresthat hadbeenpaid from
the EATA.

BanWGEF Special Accounts. Three Special Accounts inKina would be established in a commercial
bank inPort Moresby. The first special account fpr Bank's loanwould have an authorizedallocation of
US$ 1.OO million equivalent; the second and third special accounts for the CTF GEF Grant and PNG
GEF Grantwould have an authorizedallocation of 500,000 and200,000 equivalent, respectively, under
the control of the PMU. The Bank's initial advance into the first Special Account would be limited to
USS 500,000. Further deposits, as required, would be made into each o f these accounts in line with
project advancement expenditures.

The schedule for estimated disbursementson an assumedBank Loan o fUS$17.36 million "is shown
below.



                                                      - 58 -

Schedule ofEstimatedDisbursementsFromBankLoan(US$ Millions)




GEF Trust Account for CTF. The Conservation Trust Fundis to be directly responsible for its
commencement activities as discussed inAnnex 7. A GEF Trust Account would be established ina
commercial bank inPort Moresby under the control o f CTF with an allocation o fUS$ 5.00 million. The
initial advance would be limitedto US$ 1.OO million. The trust account would be used for CTF payment
and could also be usedfor advances as necessaryto cover overall expenditures inthe provinces unsuitable
for central payment.

Conversionto PMR. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, deposits into the Special Account and
their replenishmentswouldbe made on the basis ofcashwithdrawal statementsbased initially on
Statements o f Expenditure. A review will be carried out within one year o f date o f effectiveness to
determine feasibility o f adopting PMR-based disbursement.
PMRReporting. Quarterly project management reports will be producedby June 30 2002. Eachof
these reports would: (a) show actual sources and applications o f funds for the Project, both cumulatively
and for the period, and projected sources and applications o f funds for the Project for the upcoming
six-months; (b) list separately expenditures financed out o f the credit during the period covered by the
report and expenditures proposed to be financed during the upcoming six-month period; (c) describe
physical implementationprogress, both cumulatively and for the periodcovered, andexplain variances
between the actual andpreviously forecast implementation targets; and (d) set forth the status o f
procurement under the Project andexpenditures under contracts financed from the credit for the period
covered.
Agreements to be Sought. Agreement would be sought at negotiations on a Supplemental Letter to the
Loan Agreement underwhich GoPNG would confirm the establishment o f a FCP Tender Board, with an
award level o f US$500,000 equivalent.
Agreement would be sought at negotiations on a Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement under which
GoPNG would reaffirm that all procurementrelated decisions inNG66/92 andNEC41/95 would not
apply to Bank-financed contracts. This NEC decision o f 1992 has never been officially abolished.
Following the Bank's intervention on NEC's 1992 decision, the then Department o f Finance informed the
Bankby letter that the decision NG66/92 "applies only to contracts fundedby the government." Itneeds
to be confirmed that the following procurement specifications would not apply to the FCP:

   1.    to reserve all construction contracts valued between K 1.O and K 5 million to citizen or national
         companies;
   11.   to reserve all constructioncontracts valued between K5 andK10 millionto joint ventures and
   ...   consortium groups where the overseas partner has a maximumo f 50% share;
   111.  to open for general biddingonly contracts valued above K10 million;
   iv. to award all consulting contracts o fupto K100,OOO to citizen companies only; and
   V.    that bidders (contractors or consultant firms) must be registeredwith the association o f national
         contractors or consultants inorder to participate inbiddingwhich i s not acceptable for ICB as it
         restricts competition.


                                                     - 59 -

  Procurement methods (Table A)

          TableA: ProcurementCostsby ProcurementArrangements
                                      (US$ millionequivalent)


                                              International        National
                                              Competitive           Competitive     Other I/
                                              Bidding               Bidding                      N.B.F.         Total

CivilWorks                                                           0.40                                         0.40
                                                                  (0.18) (0.04)                                (0.18) (0.04)
Goods
       Vehicles                                  0.84                                                             0.84
                                              (0.74) (0.03)                                                    (0.74) (0.03)

       Computers &                               0.61                                                             0.61
       AssociatedEquipment                    (0.50) (0.06)                                                    (0.50) (0.06)

       Other Equipment                                               0.40             0.10                        0.50
                                                                  (0.29) {0,02}    (0.08) (0.01)               (0.37) {0.03)
Services
       TechnicalAssistance                                                             9.06                       9.06
                                                                                   (7.61) (0.98)               (7.61) (0.98)

       Training, Seminars & Workshops                                0.23              I.68         0.12          2.02
                                                                  (0.16) (0.07)    (0..99) (0.20)    {O. l2}   (1.15) (0.39)

       Other ContractedServices                                      1.15              0.49         0.1 1          I.75
                                                                  (0.59) (0.47)    (0.26) (0.21)     (0,ll}    (0.85) (0.79)

Grants and Awards                                                    0.49              I.47         12.62          14.58
                                                                  (0.30) (0.19)    (0.89) (0.58)     (12.62)   (1.19) (13.39)

Incremental Recurrent Costs

Staff Salaries & Allowances                                                           4.87          0.57          5.44
                                                                                   (2.79)            J0.57)    (2.79) (0.57)

RecurrentOperationalCosts                                            1.61              I.59         0.72          3.92
                                                                  (0.91)           (0.90)            (0. 72}   (1.81) (0.72)

TOTAL                                            1.45                4.28              19.26        14.12         39.11
                                              (I.24)(0.09)        (2.43) (0.79)    (13.52) {1.98}      (14.12) (17.18) (16.99)

liotes: Totals may vary slightly due to rounding.
       Figuresin parenthesis as (n.nn) are the respectiveamountsto be financedby IBRD
       Figuresin bracketsas (n,nn) are the respectiveamountsto be financedby GEF

-
I/     Other Equipment - Local Shopping0.10 (IBRD 0.08) {GEF O.Ol}
       Technical AssistanceXonsulting Services 10.06 (IBRD 8.12) (GEF 0.98}
       Training, Seminars &Workshops - Local Shopping 0.45 (IBRD 0.32) {GEF 0.13) -Direct Contracting0.23 (IBRD 0.16) {GEF 0.07)
       Other Contracted Services-Local Shopping0.49(IBRD 0.26) {GEF 0.21)
       Grants and Awards -Local Shopping 1.47 (IBRD 0.89) (GEF 0.58)
       Staff Salaries and Allowances - Direct Contracting4.87 (IBRD 2.79)
       Recurrent Operational Costs -Local Shopping 1.33 (IBRD 0.75) -Direct Contracting0.27 (IBRD 0.15)




                                                                            - 60 -

                      Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)




I\Includingcontingencies

          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, etc.
                N.B.F.= Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
           Table B. ProcurementMethods and Prior Review




                                                  - 61 -

          ,xpenditureCategory Contract Value (Threshold) ProcurementMethod          COSTRACTSSUBJECTTO PRIOR
                                                                                              REVIEW

              1, Civil Works    Individualcontractswith value          NCB           Yes, prior review by IBRD
                                  of US$50,000and above



                                Individualcontracts with value         NCB             No?Post Review only
                                     less than US$50:000

                 2. Goods       Individualcontracts with value         ICB           Yes: prior review by IBRD
                                  of US$lOO,OOO and above

                                Individualcontracts with value         NCB            Yes, prior review by PMU
                                      of us$20,000 up to                               Procurement Specialist
                                         us$100.000


                                Individualcontracts with value      Shopping           No, Post Review only
                                     less than USS20,OOO

              3a. Technical      All TA contracts with Firms     Quality and Cost-   Yes, prior review by IBRD
          issistanceFIRMS See    with value equalto or more      basedProcedures
              Note Below.             than USS100,OOO.                (QCW

                                 All TA contracts with Firms       Consultants'       Yes, prior review by IBRD
                                      with value less than
                                         US$loo:ooo             Qualifications (CQ)


          TechnicalAssistance       All TA contracts with          Consultant's       Yes, prior review by IBRD
             INDIVIDUALS        Individualswith value equalto   Qualifications (CQ)
                                  or morethan US$lOO,OOO.

                                    All TA contracts with
                                 Individuals with value from       Consultant's       Yes, prior review by IBRD
                                US$50,000up to US$lOO,OOO       Qualifications (CQ)

           Training, Seminars &        Not Applicable              Government          No, Post Review only
          'orkshops                                            proceduresacceptable
                                                                     to IBRD
          j. Salaries & Benefits       Not Applicable              Government              Not Applicable
                                                               proceduresacceptable
                                                                     to IBRD
          6. Other Operational    All contracts with avalue            NCB             No, Post Review only
                  costs           equalto US$20,000 and
                                            above
                                All contracts with a value less     Shopping           No, Post Review only
                                       than US$20,000

                                    All TA contracts with          Consultant's        No, Post Review only
                                 Individualswith value less     Qualifications(CQ)
                                       than USS50.000

                                Contracts with value equal to          ICB            Yes, prior review by IBRD
                                    US$lOO,OOO or more

                                Contracts with value equal to          NCB            Yes, prior review by IBRD
                                us$20,000 upto usS100,000

                                Contracts with value less than ShoppingProcedures      No, Post Review Only
                                          uss20,000




Note: Terms of Reference, Consultants' Qualifications,Short Lists, andRFPs for all
firms mustbe reviewedby IBRDindependentof value.



                                                               - 62 -

Disbursement

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
                   Table C:Allocation of Loan Proceeds



                                       Amount of Loan        O hof EligibleExpendituresto be
                                          Allocated                      Financed
                                      (Expressedin US$)

  Civil Works                               160,000                         50%

  Goods                                   1,450,000      100%of foreign expenditures and 100%
                                                         of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
                                                         85% of other local expenditures

  Services

  - Technical Assistance                  7,370,000                         100%

  - Training                              1,580,000                         100%

  IncrementalOperating Costs              5,290,000      100%ofeligible expenditures-Year1;
                                                         90%-Year 2; 75Y'Year    3; 50%-Year 4;
                                                         20%-Year 5; 10%Year 6; 10%Year 7
                                                         (2007)

  Front-endFee                              173,600      Amount Due

  Unallocated                             1,336,400

                TOTAL                    17,360,000




                                                  - 63 -

                  Table C.1 Financing by ProjectComponent
                                   (USS Millions)



                                                         IBRD         GEF             The       Total
                                                                                   Government
                                                        Amount  %    Amount  %    Amount   %   Amount  %

Landowner ForestDecision-Making
  Development Options Study                               2.14 51.2   1.15  27.60.8   8   21.1  4.17  10.7
  Strengtheningof Landowner RepresentativeMechanisms      0.77 70.0   0.07  6.8    0.25   23.2  1.10   2.8
  Land-Group BasedConservation& ResourceManagement        0.70 43.3   0.68  42.30.2   3   14.4  1.61   4.1
  Areas
  Project Management Unit                                 2.86 74.4    -     -     0.98   25.6  3.84   9.8
Subtotal Landowner ForestDecision-Making                  6.46 60.3   1.91  17.82.3   5   21.9  10.73 27.4
ConservationTrust Fund
  EstablishmentActivities                                             0.87  100.0  0.00         0.87   2.2
  Commencement Activities                                             4.12  100.0  0.00         4.12  10.5
  CTF Endowment                                                       10.00 100.0    -     ---  10.00 25.6
Subtotal ConservationTrust Fund                                 ----  14.99 100.0  0.00    -    15.00 38.3
Sustainable ForestManagement
  ImprovedForest Operations, Inspectionand Monitoring     3.13 84.2          -     0.59   15.8  3.72   9.5
  Forest Planning                                         1.45 79.5     --   -     0.38   20.5  1.83   4.7
  Post-HarvestForest Management and Plantations           2.67 84.6     -    -     0.49   15.4  3.16   8.1
Subtotal Sustainable ForestManagement                     7.26 83.4     -    -     1.45   16.6  8.71  22.3
Environmental Assessment& Monitoring
  Environmental Assessment, Monitoring and Regulation     2.89 75.0     -    -     0.96   25.0  3.86   9.9
  Environmental Monitoringby Local Communities            0.57 68.6   0.09  10.80.1   7   20.7  0.83   2.1
Subtotal Environmental Assessment& Monitoring             3.46 73.9   0.09   1.9   1.13   24.2  4.68   12.0
'otal Financing of Project Costs                         17.18 43.9   16.99 43.44.9   3   12.6  39.11 loo.(
'ront End Fee                                             0.17
'otal Disbursement                                       17.36



                Table C.2 Financingby Expenditure Accounts
                                  (US$ Millions)




                                                       -64   -

I                                                                                                        I

 Investment Costs
    Civil Works                                  0.19   44.7    0.04    10.5     0.18  44.7   0.40   1.0
    Goods
       Vehicles                                  0.74   87.5    0.03     3.7     0.07   8.8   0.84  2.2
       Computers andAssociated Equipment         0.50   82.2    0.06     9.6     0.05   8.2   0.61   1.6
       Other Equipment                           0.37   74.1    0.03     5.3     0.10  20.7   0.50   1.3
    Subtotal Goods                               1.61   82.4    0.12     5.9     0.23   11.6  1.95   5.0
    Services
       TechnicalAssistance                       8.12   80.7    0.98     9.8     0.96   9.5   10.06 25.7
       Training, Seminars& Workshops             0.64   62.8    0.38    37.2     0.00         1.02   2.6

    Subtotal Services                            8.76   79.1    1.36    12.36    0.96   8.7   11.08 32.8
    Grants and Awards                            1.19   8.1     13.39   91.9     0.00         14.58 37.3
 Total Investment Costs                          11.73  41.8    14.91   53.3     1.36   4.9   28.00 76.1
 Recurrent Costs
    Staff Salariesand Allowances                 2.79   51.4    0.57    10.4     2.08  38.2   5.44  13.9
    RecurrentOperational Costs                   2.67   46.9    1.52    26.8     1.49  26.2   5.67  10.0
 Total Recurrent Costs                           5.65   50.8    2.09    18.81    3.57  32.13  11.11 23.9
 Total Financing of ProjectCosts                 17.19  43.9    16.99   43.4     4.93   12.6  39.12 100.0
 Front End Fee                                   0.17
 Total Disbursement                              17.36




ProiectFinancialManaeement

 A. FINANCIALMANAGEMENT SYSTEM

 Organization,ManagementandInternalControl Structure

           The project would be overseenby a Project Oversight Committee comprising representatives o f
 government agencies, NGOs, and commercial interests involvedinlandowner andconservation activities
 associatedwith the Project. A Project Manager would lead a small team ina Project Management Unit
 (PMU), reporting operationally to the Project Committee. The Project would be implementedby two
 existing agencies, andthree bodiesto be established. The existing agenciesare the Forest Authority (FA)
 and the Office o f Environment and Conservation (OEC). The new bodies are the Conservation Trust Fund
 (CTF), the Landowner Decision and Organization Unit (LDOU), and the PMU. The CTF would be
 established by trust deed as described ina second section o f this Annex. LDOU would be established as a
 team of mainly consultants, reporting operationally to the Project Manager inthe PMU.

           The PMU, working cooperatively with the implementingagencies, would be directly responsible
 for four areas o fproject financial management:

                            (a) overall planning andbudgeting;
                            (b) procurement andcontract management;
                            (c) payments, management o f Bank accounts, anddisbursements, and
                            (d) accounting andfinancial reporting for the project.

The PMUwould thus provide a service to the ImplementingAgencies, enabling them to concentrate upon
the technical management of their components, the provision ofwork plans andbudgetsto the PMUfor


                                                          - 65 -

incorporation inthe project budgets, and the certification o f payments due under contracts. The situation
for the CTF activities would be handled somewhat differently, as described inthe next paragraph.

         Inthe case ofthe CTF component, the role ofthe PMUwouldrapidly phaseout. For
establishment activities -procurement o f works, goods, and technical assistance-the P M U would provide
the full range o f support to the CTF in the four financial management areas mentioned above. It would
provide information to the CTF so that the CTF couldmaintain its own records correctly. For
commencement activities -including the initial grant program- CTF would take on the primary
responsibility inthe four financial management areas mentioned. CTF would report expenditures and the
use o f GEF funds to the PMU inorder that the P M U could incorporate the commencement activities inthe
reports on the overall project situation and the project financial statements. Finally, the CTF would be fully
responsible for the endowment activities including planningandreporting. The role o f the P M Uwould be
simply to record the endowment inthe project financial statements.The investments made from endowment
funds, and the grants financed from the investment income, would be recordedbythe CTF, andreportedin
financial statements issued by CTF.

Assessment of financial managementcapacity of the existingimplementingagencies.

         Duringpreparation and appraisal, an assessmentwas made ofthe accounting and auditing
practices and internal control arrangements within the two existing implementingagencies (OEC and FA).
An assessment of financial management system of implementingagencieswas carried out during the
appraisal. The assessment concluded that implementing agencies lack appropriate financial management
system andrequired skills. Additionally, the overall control environment i s very weak. An action planto
improve financial management systemfor the project has been developed. An appropriate accounting and
reporting systemi s being developed to meet the World Bank requirements. It i s expected that ,once the
action plan to establish the project financial management system is completed, the systemwill address
weaknesses identified inthe assessment and fiduciary risk relatedto this project will be manageable. This
assessment commenced with a review o f the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995,which governs the
management o fpublic finances within Papua New Guinea. The Act provides procedures and
responsibilities for financial management and for keeping the Public Account on a cashreceipts and
expenditures basis. It also provides for compilation o f the National Budget, and budgetary control including
the system o f annual appropriations by Parliament for approved expenditures. Finally it sets out the rules
for malung payments, and for tenders and contracts. Underthe Act, the Secretary o f the Treasury has
issued Finance Instruction 7/97,which gives procedures concerning the financial management o f
donor-funded projects. This Instruction deals amongst other things with the establishment o f counterpart
trust fund bank accounts for govemment contributions to projects, and for IBRD special accounts, both o f
which mustbe controlled by at least two signatories. I t also deals with the requirements for accounting for
expenditures.

         With pressures upon cash availability, andthe devolution o fresponsibilities to provincial
governments, the procedures laid down by the Act and associatedFinance Instructions have come under
increasing pressure inrecent years. One particular concern has beenthe multiplicationo f the number o f
trust bank accounts, both those associated with foreign-assisted projects and others. Supervision o f these
accounts has beenweak and there are concerns as to the aggregate level o f the accounts, andtheir retention
for use from one fiscal year to another. The Asian Development Bank and AusAID are supporting a major
project for effecting improvements inthe systems supporting the management o fpublic finances at all
levels o f government. These improvements are likely to yieldtheir results over a period o f some years. In
themeantime,some agenciesare experiencing difficulty incomplying with allthe provisions ofthe
legislation, and reporting ina timely fashion.


                                                     -66   -

The Office of Environment and Conservationis requiredto follow the provisions o f the Public Finances
(Management) Act. A consultant prepared a financial management manual for OEC in 1998. The manual
was reviewed, under the leadership o f the Director and the Internal Auditor, and adopted in 1999. The
manual was distributed to OEC staff in December 1999. The manual summarizes the statutory procedures
for accounting for revenues, for authorizing expenditures, for government financed procurement, including
rules for internal and overseastravel, for air charters, for computer equipment and software, for consulting
services, vehicles and other equipment, plant and transport hire,and airline tickets. It also summarizes the
rules for cash management, for management o f advances and trust accounts, the keeping o f an asset
register, and comments on issues related to portable equipment and disposal o f vehicles. The manual also
deals with rules for personnel, including casual employees, overtime, allowances, and leave. The manual
should have enabled the Office to upgrade its financial management procedures but there is evidence that
this has not occurred to the expected level. Part ofthe reason may be due to poor staffmorale arising from
a material reduction inOffice staff levels in2000 and severe constraints inoperating budgetsin2000 and
2001.

The ForestAuthoritywas createdby Act of Parliament in 1991, andtook over the assets of the
Department o f Forests. UntilJanuary 1993, it maintained traditional government accounts, andthen
commenced the process o f establishing a balance sheet to incorporate the assets taken over from the former
Department, includinga plantation. FA'Sexpendituresare included inthe national budget, and it receives
quarterly allocations of cash from the Treasury, which is kept in separatebank accounts and used for
appropriated expenditures. The Authority also receives fee revenue, which it pays over to other bodies as
specified by legislation or agreements, or to the Public Account. Its organizational structure separates
procurement and contract management from the payment and accounting functions, but a formal financial
management manual does not exist. Its chart o f accounts is geared to a substantial amount o f analysis by
expense categories, organizational unit, and location throughout the country, but does not include an ability
to report interms o f the national budget headings. There i s no fixed asset register nor vehicle log books.
The Authority maintains management accounts which are presented to its Board.

         The valuation of assets such as vehicles, buildings,and plantationshas not yet been completed.
The Auditor-General's opinion for 1993 reportedthis situation, together with some other factors. The
accounts for 1994 are currently being audited, but will also have an asset valuation problem. The accounts
for 1995 are indraft form, ready for audit review, and the intention i s then to proceed to each subsequent
year inturn. Untilvaluation o f all assets i s completed, audit opinions are likely to carry a disclaimer or
qualification. The cost andeffort o f reconstructingasset values over a significant periodo f the past may be
needto be prioritized relative to improvingcurrent andfuture management o f expenditure accounts on a
cashbasis. Inthis connection, an AusAID-financed consultant is going to assist FA to set up a new
financial management system, which within the next twelve months will entail both staff training andthe
development o f a procedures manual.

          Inrelationto externally-fundedprojects, the Stabex funded Log ExportMonitoringProgram
managed by FA, valued at PGK 9.5 million (about US$3.2 million) has receivedan unqualified audit
opinion dated October 18, 1999, from an international accounting firm. The Log Exporting Monitoring
Programcontinues inoperation.

         The project objectives are dependent upon the technical strengths, rather than the financial
management capabilities o f OEC and FA. The project design places project financial management with an
independentPMU, which is to become familiar withthe special requirements of an internationally assisted
project, including procurement and management of loan funds. The financial role o f OEC and FA in


                                                      - 67 -

connection with the Project would be confmedto expenditures for small payments for some provincial
activities unsuitable for payments directly from the PMU. Advances to OEC and FA for this purpose will
be made from GOPNG counterpart funds. As described inthe next section, the PMU capability to
undertake its financial management role i s to be established under an action program. There isjudged to be
no undue control risk inrelyingupon OEC and FA for the restricted financial role they are to undertake
under the Project

Programof Action to establishadequateProjectFinancialManagementCapacity(other than CTF).

          Giventhe above situation, Government has agreedthat an adequately staffed ProjectManagement
Unitwouldbe created, withthe functions discussedearlier, to assure implementation support, and an
adequate financial management capacity for the Project. As noted earlier, this Unitwould be responsible
for budgeting, contracting, payments accounting, disbursements andcontrol o f bank accounts, but not for
implementation o f the main project activities. The financial management burdenupon the Forestry
Authority and OEC would thereby be kept to a minimum.They would certify payments andmanaging
small advances. Despite the weaknesses mentioned, their capacity to undertake these restrictedfinancial
responsibilities is considered adequate.

          A programo faction is beingimplementedto ensurethat that the PMUwould be able to promptly
establish an adequate financial management system. This program o f action i s phased inorder to cover the
four financial management areas mentioned inpara. 2 above. The objective i s to equip the P M Uwith tools
to rapidly establish the required financial management systems for the Project. These tools would cover
project management, contract andprocurement management, disbursements and cash flow management,
general ledger accounting, and requiredreporting to the Project Oversight Committee, GoPNG, the Bank
and GEF. Inaddition, they would support preparationo f annual budgets to GoPNG and reimbursement
claims andor Special Account reconcilations to the Bank so as to facilitate the timely flow o f funds. All
procurement andcontract expenditures and monitorable outputs are to be linkedto financing sources, and
cash flow forecasts would be generated for Bank and GEF financing, as well as for counterpart
requirements.

          The systemwould from the outset produce Project Management Reports (PMR) inaccordance
with the Bank's recommended formats for expenditures (1-Aand 1-B),andprocurement and contractual
payments (3-A to 3-D), together with Special Account reconciliation reports, listings o f expenditures for
disbursement applications, and reports o f achieved contract deliverables and relatedpayments. The
contracted consulting firm has built and tested the budgeting, procurement, contract management and
output reporting section o f the system, andthe detailed functional specifications for payments, funds
management, and accounting. However, despite being financially sound at the time o f contract signing,
following September 11,2001 events the firm has gone out o f business.Inthese circumstances, installing
the completed sectionsof the systemwould have the project exposed without technical support. While there
i s a possibility that another firm will be available to complete and support the system, the discussion that
follows indicates an alternative process to meet the project's financial management needs on the assumption
that a successorfirm is not able to be mobilizedintime to meet the needs.

         The first stage of the actionprogram would establish the PMU organization and key staff, and
introduce the first two areas o f the project financial management agenda: planning and budgeting, and
initial procurement. This stage would be undertaken by the Project Manager and the Project Procurement
Adviser. The Project Manager i s inpost, as o fAugust 30, 2001, and it was agreed at negotiations that the
Procurement Advisor andthe Project Accountant will be inpost prior to effectiveness, in order that they
may undertake a number o f actions required by effectiveness.


                                                       - 68 -

         Inorder to support the PMUinits task of establishing the financial management system, the
project provides funds for computer purchase, software training and support, employment o f a qualified
accountant andexperienced procurement officer, and ongoing monthly support from a local accounting
consulting firm. Duringa second stage, the Project Accountant, with assistancefrom a consultant familiar
with the Bank'srequirements, would establish spreadsheet registers andreports that would implement the
financial record keepingand management and Bank reportingrequirements. The financial management
action planprovides for an accounting consulting firm to be recruitedto produce a financial procedures
manual, covering the organization structural, responsibilities, separation o f duties, procurement, custody o f
assets etc. The firm would review the procedure manual o f OEC as a basis for adoption or modificationby
the Project ifjudgeddesirable. It would also conduct training, scheduled for the first quarter o f 2001, inthe
procedures for staff at all levels, includingmanagers, o f the PMU, and coordinators and selected staff in
the ImplementingAgencies.

         Upon completion o f this training, the computerized spreadsheet registers and reports would be
activated, prior to effectiveness (initial hardware having beenpurchased under local shopping), and staff
would be trained inits use. The objective would be for the first set of PMRs, including schedulesto support
disbursementsunder traditional Bank procedures, for the periodto June 30,2002. Initially, traditional SOE
procedures will be used, however, within a year from project effectiveness date, a determinationwill be
made on adaptation o f the PMR-basedprocedures. The project provides continuing support by an
accounting firm, o f about one month a year or about two days a month, to help ensure that financial
procedures operate and end-of-month financial management reports are prepared as planned.

         AccountingPrinciples andAudit: The PMUwould maintainthe project accounts on a cash
receipts and expenditures basis, but would also maintain records o f contractual claims not yet paid, and o f
the contingent liabilities outstanding under contracts. Inaddition, it would maintain records ofproject
assets. Special purpose project financial statements, ina format acceptable to the Bank, would be prepared
for the information o f the Government, the Bank and GEF, which would summarize receipts and
expenditures and cash balances, andthe situation o f disbursementsandthe Special Accounts. These
accounts would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audited statements
will be h i s h e d to the Bankwithin six months ofthe close ofthe financial year. The audit opinion would
incorporate separate opinions on expenditures and the Special Accounts.

         Concurrent with the actions discussed earlier, forward planning for audit would take place. The
project manager would contact the selected independentauditor, with a view to having the intemal control
procedures contained inthe financial procedures manual reviewedat an early stage, as a separate exercise
prior to the first audit. The project manager would also seek to establish with the independentauditor a
timetable for audit work to be conducted by the independent auditor. The format of the required annual
project financial statements, together with details o f the Bank's requirements for audit, was provided to the
Government during negotiations.




                                                     - 69 -

Summary Action Plan: The above agreedactions are summarized inthe table below:

                                   Project FinancialManagementAction Plan



                                                                         .
                                  Action                                 ---t--
                                                                              Agency




I.Preliminary

1. Approval o f Specification for Computerized System                          Bank         1 30-Nov-1999 (done)




11. Organization and staffing

(a)       Project Management Unit                                              P&M           130-Sep-2001 (done)

(b)       Appointment o f Project Manager                                                     30-Aug-2001 (done)

(c)       Appointment o f Project Accountant                                                  Prior to effectiveness

(d)       Appointment o f Procurement Specialist


111.InternalControl& AccountingProceduresfor PMUand LDOU

(a)       Appointment o f accounting consulting firm to provide
end-of-month support and develop a financial procedures manual for the         P M U             28-Feb-2002

Project, reflecting the computerized system as necessary, and setting out
responsibilities and procedures for procurement, contracting, authorizing
expenditures, payments, cash management, the custody and registration
o f assets, vehicle log books, and rules for personnel and payroll
procedures
(b)       Training in financial procedures                                   Accounting           12-Mar-2002
                                                                          consultants    (to
                                                                              be hired)

(c)       Install spreadsheet registers and reports based on detailed
functional specifications and train staff, satisfactory to the Bank        Financial system       3 1-Jan-2002
                                                                             consultants

(d)       Arrange for the independent auditors to review the financial
procedures manual and internal controls prior to the first audit.                                30-NOV-2002

IV. Operations

                                                                         p
(e)       Produce first set o f PMRs,                                           P M U        I    28-Feb-2002

V: Audit

(f)       Appoint independent accounting firm to audit financial
statements in accordance to terms o f reference acceDtable to the Bank                         31-December-2002




                                                          - 70 -

B.THE CONSERVATIONTRUST FUNDand its FinancialManagement Arrangements

         This section firstly paraphrasesthe draft documents that would set up the Conservation Trust
Fund.Itthen givesa brief initial assessment ofhow they impact upon the proposed Project, andindicates
the next steps to be undertaken at part of an Action Planto complete project preparation. Itthen considers
the documents from the point of view of financial management, and outlines further steps that wouldneed
to form part o f the initial work program for the establishment phase o f the CTF.

The Trust Deed

         The PapuaNew Guinea Conservation Trust Fund(CTF) has been established by a trust deed
executed between The Nature Conservancy (the Settlor) and Papua New Guinea Conservation Trust Fund
Limited (the Trustee Company TC). The Nature Conservancy i s to settle a nominal s u m o f PGK 1,000 on
                                  -
the TC, to hold on trust on the terms o f the trust deed. The trust deedprovides that the primary purpose of
the CTF is to exclusively operatefor charitable, scientific and education, andto provide financial support
for conservation-oriented projects and activities. The CTF is to consist o f the initial settled sum, donations
givento the TC to bepaidinto the CTF, and income or property from investments. The TC must seek to
ensure that the Fundis recognized as a charitable trust fund under PNG and other tax laws.

         The TC must adopt an investmentpolicy with investment guidelines andreview it every twelve
months. Investments are to be consistent with the policy, unless the terms o f a Donation Agreement require
otherwise. The TC must engage one or more asset managers with expertise ininvestmentsinthe domestic
andintemational markets, who will helpprepareandreview the investment guidelines, advise the TC on
investments, andmake investments on behalf o f the TC.

         The CTF is to be spent on supporting Conservation-oriented projects andinmeetingliabilities and
expenses. Other than requiredotherwise by specific terms o f a DonationArrangement, support can be by
way o f grant without or without conditions, by direct or indirect investment, by loans with or without
security, and providing resources, guarantees, or other financial support.

         The TC is to adopt a program and program budget for each financial year, setting out the kinds o f
projects and activities to be supported during the year, estimates o f income andexpenditure, andallocation
for each kindo fproject or activity.

         The TC must as soon as practicable, adopt a FundOperations Manual (FOM), setting out amongst
other things, (a) procedures for handlingdonations, for assessing donation proposal, and a fund seeking
strategy; (b) the criteria for selecting fund managers and other expert advisers; (c) the spending rule
conceming the proportion o f fund income available for expenditure; (d) the investmentstrategy, and (e) a
numberofother operating policies andprocedures, includingindependent audit, andthe organizational
structure. A draft Manual has beenpreparedand cleared by the Bank.

         The TC must eachyear cause to be conducted a review o f its operations by a qualified person, and
each thirdyear by an independent person to ensure conformity to the Trust Deedand appropriate CTF
govemance. Projects must be monitored, and stakeholders involved, as far as practicable, inan open
transparent and accessibleway. A Stakeholder General Assembly is to be heldannually, accounts are to be
kept andaudited, andan annual reportprovided to stakeholders within six months ofthe end o fthe
financial year. Corrupt practices are forbidden, andconflicts o f interest are defined, andmust be disclosed.


                                                     - 71 -

The Settlor may remove and replace the Trustee Company, agree to proposed amendments to the trust
deed, andterminate the Fund. Inthis event, after paying expenses and liabilities, donations are to be
returnedas entitledby donation arrangements, andany surplus distributed to other similar bodies with
similar objectives to the CTF.

The Trust Company Constitution

         The constitution of the TC is the document requiredfor the purpose o fregistrationo fthe TC
under the PNG Companies Act 1997. The TC is to have one ordinary share, nine directors, initially those
selectedby the Settlor, who mustbe resident inPNG, but not an elected member o f parliament, provincial
assembly, or local level government, a public servant, or a constitutional office holder. Remuneration o f
Directors i s to be fixedby the Board at amounts consistent with practices for voluntary service to
charitable organizations. The constitution also sets out detailedrules prohibitingloans to directors, defining
directors' material interests and duties, boardpowers, meetings, andproceedings. It also provides that the
Boardmust adopt a Funds Operations Manual as requiredby the Trust Deed.

The OperationsManual

         The Operations Manual is an elaborate document, settingout detailedrules andprocedures.
Separate board committees cover financehnvestment, grants, development (fund raising), andnominating
(of directors). Organizationally, under the Executive Secretariat, are the financial service, the grant
program service, and the support service.

         Detailedprovisions cover: (i)   the CTF organizationalstructure, (ii) reception and handlingof
                                                                                 the
donations, (iii) administration and financial management, procurement policy, accounts receivable and
payable, travel policy, other operating procedures, and rules regarding employees; (iv) investment policy,
(v) grant program policies andprocedures, including monitoring and evaluation, and formats for submitting
grant proposals.

OverallAssessment and Next Steps

         The Trust Deed and Constitution were preparedby a large law firm, and the Operations Manualby
the CTF Advisor. The documents are well preparedand comprehensive.

         The introduction o fthe section on the reception andhandlingof donations acknowledges the GEF
Grant that i s part o f the proposed Project, andnotes that it consists o f both a Sinking Fundelement o f
USS5 million and an Endowment Donation o f US$10 million. An advised sinkingfund may be usedfor
both CTF establishment expenses and the grant program, as set out inthe agreement with the donor, inthis
case GEF.An advised endowmentfund provides that the earnings from the endowment would be usedfor
specific purposes andareas linkedto the mission o f the CTF and determinedby the donor. The
understandings between GEF and the PNG CTF, reflecting some detailed provisions recommended during
appraisal, are set out inmemoranda o f understanding discussed at negotiations. These memoranda
concerning the operation o f the trust fund will become effective prior to Boardpresentation

FinancialManagementofthe Fund

        The trust deed, constitution, and fund operations manual provide a soundbase for the
implementationo f detailed financial management, includingprocurement andaccounting systems, by CTF.
Their establishment and implementation forms an important part o f the Commencement Activities


                                                     - 72 -

sub-component o f the Conservation Trust Fundcomponent.

         The structure of CTF has beenfully developedbynegotiationdate, including: i)clearly defining
the timetable for the Establishment and Commencement phases of the CTF; ii)appointment of CTF board
membersina transparent process; and iii)recruitment ofthe CTF advisor. Insubsequentappointment
rounds, steps will be taken to enhance independence o f the CTF board by considering inclusion o f
additional members, such as Transparency International, Attomey General Office, NGOs,and a reputable
private/law firm.An independentmechanism will be establishedto provide on-going monitoring o f the use
o f CTF fund, consistent with its constitution. This could include establishment o f an independent
three-member audit committee o f the CTF board, with two outside members. The work o f the committee
will be assistedby an independentaccountant firm, which would conduct quarterly reviewsof the use o f
CTF funds. An arrangement will be made for the annual audit o f the CTF by an independent accounting
firmacceptableto the Bank.

         SummaryAction Planfor the ConservationTrust Fund: the critical actions to mobilizeand
manage the Conservation Trust Fundthrough the first year or so of its operation as discussed above have
been agreedby the Govemment as follows:

                                Key Actions Relatedto the ConservationTrust Fund


                                         Action                                               Agency          Date
 I.Legal
I(a) Submit draft trust deed, constitution andoperations manualto Bank for review  I                    I  Completed     I
                                                                                      ~~    ~~


 (b) Bank comments                                                                            Bank        3 1-Mar-2000
                                                                                                          (completed)

 (c)  Registertrust company                                                                    CTF
I(d) Signtrustdeed                                                                 I           CTF      I                 I
 (e)  Sendconformedcopies to Bank                                                              CTF
 (0   Boardto adopt Operations Manual                                                          CTF

 11.Organizationand Staffing

                                                                                               CTF        (Completed)
I(g) Recruit CTF Advisor

 (h) Recruitother staff                                                            I    CTF Advisor     1By effectiveness I
 111.Operational
 (i)Initiateestablishmentphase                                                          PMUICTF          By effectiveness
                                                                                              Advisor
 0) Initiatecommencementphaseactivities                                                        CTF        3 1-June-2002
 IV.Audit
IAudit of accounts as at 31-Dec-2002 to stakeholders& Bank by 30-Apr-2003          I           CTF      I 31-Dec-2002    I

AccountingPrinciplesandAudit

        The CTF would maintain its accounts on a cash receipts and expenditures basis. Under the draft
Trust Deed,the CTF Annual Financial Report must be audited by independent auditors, and made
available to stakeholders within six months o f the end o f a fiscal year. It was agreed at negotiations that the


                                                          - 73 -

BankandGEFwouldreceivea copy ofthis reportwithin this time frame.

..............................................
' Membersof the Boardwould consist of one well knownandrespectedpersonfrom the privatesector
  andtwo governmentemployeesplusthe PMUProcurementOfficer. The Boardwouldbe Charedby
  the PMUProcurementOfficer
' Costsshownastotalsinthefollowingsectionsmayvarydueto roundingfactor.
                                                            a
' This amountexcludes additionalfundingwhichcouldbecomeavailableas endowmentgrantsthrough
  cofinancinginthe projectyears 4,5 and6.
' Includingtechnicalassistance,training,workshops,seminars,andothercontractedservices,
  Includingthe one percent (1.00?40)Front EndFee.




                                                       - 74 -

                                 Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
              PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT

   Project Schedule                                             Planned                          Actual
   Time taken to prepare the project (months)               12                                36
I1 Appraisal
   First Bank mission (identification)                      09115/1997                        09/15/1997
            mission departure                     II        04/15/1998             II          01/11/1999    II
   Negotiations                                             04115/ 1998                        10/09/2001
   Planned Date of Effectiveness                            11/28/1998                         0313112002

Preparedby:
NationalForest Authority, Office o f Environmental and Conservation, Department o f Treasury and
Corporate Affairs.

Preparationassistance:
Japanese PHRD grant ($750,000) and GEF PDF Block B grant ($300,000)

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
I          Name                                             Soecialitv
  James J. Douglas                         Forestry
  Glen Barry                               PNG Forest and Environment Specialist
  Kathleen S. Mackinnon                    Sr. Biodiversity Specialist, ENVDR
  Anita Gordon                             Consultant, NGO and Media
  Bruce M.Harris                           Sr. Social Scientist, Social Assessment and Participation
  Charles DiLeva                           Environmental Lawyer
  BehdadM.H.Nowroozi                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  Carlos R. Escudero                       Operational Lawyer
  Kathleen Mikitin                         Audit Senior
  Robin Broadfield                         Sr. Regional Coordinator
  Andrew Bond                              Sr. Biodiversity Specialist
  Kathryn Cherrie                          Program Assistant
  BrendaPhillips                           Program Assistant
  Patricia Miranda                         Operational Lawyer




                                                    - 75 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
            PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
        A. Project Preparation and Appraisal Documents
         "Papua New Guinea Government's Project Implementation Plan"-April,    1999
         "Some Issues o f Law andPolicy Relating to Landowner Organisation andRepresentation
        Mechanisms", Kathy Whimp-September,          1998
         "Conservation Area Mechanisms inPapuaNew Guinea", Kathy Whimp-September, 1998
        "Detailed Description o f Activities for Landowner Component", Kathy WhimpSeptember,
         1998
        "Landowner Forest Decision MakingComponent-Component          Report", Hartmut
        Holzknecht-February,     1998
        "Papua New Guinea Conservation Trust FundDeed",The Nature Conservancy-April,        1999
        "Papua New Guinea Conservation Trust FundConstitution", The Nature Conservancy-April,
         1999
        "Conservation Trust FundFramework Document", The Nature Conservancy-August,        1998
        "Sustainable Forest Management Component Report", Paul Ryan-February,       1998iMarch 1999
        "Low Impact Harvesting, Timber Certification and Eco-Forestry", Paul Ryan-February,   1998
        "Implementing Best Practice Environmental Regulation inPapuaNew Guinea", Kathy
        Whimp-April, 1999
        "First-year Project Implementation Schedule", Robert Etheredge-November    1999
        "Six-year Project Implementation Schedule", Robert Etheredge-November     1999

B. Bank Staff Assessments
        "Social Analysis o f Rural Development Issues", Bruce Harris-March,   1999
        Project Concept Document-January,        1998
        GEF Proposal for Review-October,       1997
        "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement", Richard Scheiner-April,
        1999


C. Other
        "Papua New Guinea Government's Environmental Assessment"-April,       1999
        "Best Practices and Strategic Options for Knowledge Management", Jeff Kwaterski, Pact
        International-February,   1999
        "Best Practices and Strategic Options for Education", Dr.Larry Orsak-February, 1999.
        "GEF STAP Review"-October,         1997
        "Project Cost Tables" (Costab File: PNG-1O.TAB)-October      2001
*Including electronic files




                                                    - 76 -

                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                      PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
                                                              O7-NOv-2001
                                                                                                                        Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO69771      2000 GVERMNCE PROMOTIONADJUSTMENT LOAN               90.00       0.00                         0.00     35.00       35.00       0.00
PO66954      2000 PG-GASDEV TA                                     7.00       0.00                         0.00      5.69        0.23       0.00
PO60330      2000 Mining Sedor Inst. StrengtheningTA              10.00       0.00                         0.00      9.30        1.30       0.00
PO54238      2000 PNG-GAZELLERESTORATIONIt                        25.26       0.00                         0.00     21.65       12.39       0.00
PO55446      1998 EMERGENCY ELNINO                                 5.00       0.00                         3.50      0.24        3.74       0.24
PO04399      1993 PG-POPULATIONPROJECT                             6.90       0.00                         0.00      2.25        2.25       0.00
PO04392      1993 PG-EDUCATIONDEVELOPMW                           35.00       0.00                         0.03     13.72       13.76       6.80
PO04389      1992 OR0 SMLHLDROIL PALM                            27.00        0.00                         5.62      3.28        8.90      -0.75

                                                       Total:   206.16        0.00                         9.16     91.13       77.56       6.29




                                                         PAPUANEW GUINEA
                                                         STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                              MAY-2001
                                                          InMillions US Dollars


                                                                                Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                              IFC                                    IFC
     FY Approval               Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic

                                         Total Portfolio:            0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00


                                                                          ApprovalsPendingCommitment
     FY Approval             Company                                    Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic


                             Total PendingCommitment:                    0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                  - 77 -

                                                 Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                 PAPUA NEW GUINEA: FORESTRY AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
                                                              Papua       East        Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               New    Asia B      middle-
                                                              Guinea    Pacific      income        j  Development diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                                   5.1    1,853         2,046                            Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                690    1,060         1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  3.5    1,964         2,327                                   -

Average annual growth. 1994-00

Population (%J                                                    2.7        1.1            1.o
Labor force (%J                                                   2.3        1.4            1.3       GNI

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                                 per
                                                                                                      capita
Poverty /% of population below national poverty line)              38
Urban Dopulation f% of total DoDulationJ                           17        35             42
Life exDectancv at birth fvears)                                   58        69             69
Infant mortaiitv (per 1,000 live births)                           58        35             32
Child malnutrition /% of children under 51                         30        13             11                   Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)               42        75             80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 1 5 t )                             35        14             15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populationJ              80       119          114              ---Papua          New Guinea
                                                                                                    ~




    Male                                                           87       121          116                        Lower-middle-income arouu
                                                                                                             ~


    Female                                                         74       121          114

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1980        1990     1999         2000         I  Economlc ratios'
GDP (US%billions)                                      2.5        3.2        3.7            3.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                         25.2       24.4      17.4         15.4
Exports of aoods and servicesiGDP                    43.2        40.6      44.5         47.7        I                        Trade

Gross domestic savinasiGDP                            15.1       16.1      14.5         17.4                                   T
Gross national savinas1GDP                            19.0        9.0      15.8         15.8        ,I
Current account balancelGDP                          -12.2       -9.8       -5.0            1.1
interest DavmentslGDP                                  2.0        4.8        1.5            2.3     !Domestic                               Investment
Total debtiGDP                                        28.2       80.5      73.2         69.7        i
                                                                                                    I savings

Total debt servicelexports                            13.8       35.5        9.9        17.3
Present value of debtlGDP                                                                           I                          I

Present value of debtiexports                                                                       I                     indebtedness
                                         1980-90  1990-00        1999     2000      2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          1.9       4.1        5.4       -1.8            1.4               -Papua         New Guinea
GDP per capita                              -0.4       1.4        2.6       -4.4         -1.3                        Lower-middle-income group
                                                                                                                ~
Exports of goods and services                3.3       2.8       -4.4       -7.6         -4.3


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1980        1990     1999          2000
(% of GDPJ
Aqriculture                                           33.1       29.0      29.4         25.9         1                                                II
industry                                              26.8       30.4      38.4         43.6
   Manufacturinq                                       9.5        9.0        8.4
Services                                             40.0        40.6      32.2         3::;

Private consumption                                   60.9       59.0      64.5         63.2              -
General government consumDtion                        24.1       24.8      21.0          19.4        !.zo0
Imports of goods and services                         53.3       48.9      47.3         45.7                         -GDI            l O ' G D P
                                                                                                     1


                                                  1980-90    1990-00                               1
                                                                                                                                                      II
(average annual growth)                                                   lgg9          zooo          Growth of exports and imports (%)               I
Aaricuiture                                            1.8        3.9
Industry                                               1.9        5.6        2.5
   Manufacturina                                       0.1        5.3       -1.9         -7.0
Services                                               2.0        3.1        8.7

Private consumption                                    0.4        6.2      17.1
General aovernment consumDtion                        -0.1        2.6        0.9            3.9   1.20 1
Gross domestic investment                             -0.9       -0.7     -10.4          -6.1                     -Exports
                                                                                                   ~                                -Imports
ImDorts of goods and services                         -1.3        2.4        1.4         -5.6


Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) COmDaredwith its income-aroup averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                      - 78 -

                                                                                               Puma New Guinea

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1980   1990    1999   2000       Inflation (Oh)                                  1
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                20

Consumer prices                                    7.0   14.9    15.6     15
Implicit GDP deflator                       7.1    4.1   13.8    10.1     10

Government finance                                                          5
(% of GDP, excludes wants)
Current revenue                                  32.1    22.6    24.3        '
Current budget balance                             1.7     0.9    2.4    I
                                                                         ~           95     96      97      96    99
                                                                                   -GDP         deflator  *CPI            4I
Overail surplusideficit                           -3.3    -3.5   -1.5

TRADE
                                          1980   I990    1999   2000
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Totai exports (fob)                              1,196  2,019   2,214   I3 000  -
  Gold                                            412     639    627
  Copper                                          366     283    281
  Manufactures                                            400    581
Total imports (cif)                              1,363   1,525  1,502
  Food                                            222     272    250
  Fuel and energy                                  147    126     124
  Capital qoods                                   442     515    499

Export price index (1995=100)                       68      77     80    iI       94     95    96     97    96   99     00

Import price index 11995=100)                              102     94    I               Ea Exports       HImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                   75     86

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1980   1990    1999   2000
(US$ millions)                                                           , Current account balance to GDP ("h)
                                                                         I
Exports of goods and services             1,029  1,402  2,019   2,214
Imports of goods and services             1,322  1,510  2,140   2,111
Resource balance                          -293   -108    -121     103       15

                                                                            10
Net income                                -179   -103    -237    -240
Net current transfers                      161   -107     173     178        5

Current account balance                   -312   -317    -185      41        0

Financing items (net)                      243    418     190     100        5
Changes in net reserves                     69   -101       -5   -141      -10

Memo:
Reserves includinq qold IUS$ millions)                    205     296
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            0.7    1.o     2.5    2.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1980   1990    1999   2000
(US$ millions)                                                              Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       719   2,594  2,695   2,621
  IBRD                                      55    235     241     244
  IDA                                       55     115      97     92                       G:203     A 2 4 4


Total debt service                         150    553     211     407                                             39
  IBRD                                       6     28       46     44
  IDA                                        0       2       3      3

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                          279    304       95                                                   D 532
                                                                              F 1013
  Officiai creditors                        34     186     -26     32
  Private creditors                         30     49      -30   -109
  Foreign direct investment                 76     155    297
  Portfolio equitv                           0       0    232                                            E: 498

World Bank program
  Commitments                               30     67       0     107       4 IBRD                            E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                             15     64       8      43       B IDA
                                                                              --       D Other multilateral
                                                                                         -                    F .Private
  Principal repayments                       2      15      34     31       C. IMF                            G. Short-term
  Net flows                                 12     49      -26     12
  Interest payments                          5      15      16     16
  Net transfers                              8     33      -42     -4


DeveloDment Economics                                                                                                9113/01


                                                      - 79 -

                                                       Additional
                                                       Annex 11

                                  Social Analysis of Rural Development Issues

The social analysis i s intwo parts. The first discusses overall social andeconomic issues impacting on
rural development in PapuaNew Guinea, a Participatory Framework for implementation o f the Forestry
and Conservation Project andthe sub-projects to be funded inrural areas o f the country, and a
methodology for conducting social assessments in selectedareas where sub-projects will be implemented.
The second part o f the report i s a social assessment o f Kokoro Village. This provides example o f how
the general socioeconomic issuesplay out ina particular rural area and o fhow social assessmentmightbe
approached in a rural area o f PNG inwhich a sub-project might be implemented.

Part One: General Social Issues inRural Development and a Participatory Framework

Though rich innatural resources,the economic development o f PNGhas not ledto an improvedquality o f
life for its citizens, particularly its rural citizens. The country has failed to mobilize its basic assets for
development. These assets include fiscal, natural resources, human capital, social capital and land and
labor. The most critical social and economic issues facing the country are reflections o f these failures.

Major Social and Economic Issues Affecting Rural Development:

Governance: The state has consistently failed to mobilize fiscal resources andthe retums from natural
resources to benefit the population. The political systemreflects the social fragmentation o f the country.
The first past the post electoral system encouragespoliticians to respond to the narrow interests o fthe
small segment o f the electorate which voted for them. Political influence, rather than development needs,
pervades the distribution o f fiscal resources and rights to natural resource exploitation. Political influence
undermines the bureaucracy and government agencies. Nationalplanningis almost non-existent; where it
exists, implementation capacity is low. The rapid growth o f funds controlled by politicians in
discretionary ("slush") funds exacerbates the tendency towards patronage politics with a lack o f
transparency and accountability.

Decentralizationand Service Delivery: The decentralization reforms of the Organic Law o f 1995
devolved most responsibility for public services to the provincial andlocal level governments. However,
the fiscal andmanpower resourcesto carry out those functions have not beenforthcoming, so the human
capital o f the country remains poorly developed. Service delivery has continuedits almost two-decade
long decline. Health indicators, already poor, are deteriorating. Educational facilities and supplies in
poor condition and short supply. Infrastructure (notably transportation, but also communications, water
supply and physical plant) is either non-existent or inan advanced state o f disrepair. Poverty is at
unacceptably highlevels, andmost factors diagnostic o f greatest risk for poverty are associated with rural
residence. Rural income generating opportunities are woefully underdeveloped.

Social and Cultural Fragmentation: Social capital is poorly mobilized inPNG. Social and cultural
fragmentation at the local level prevents cooperative action among villages, limits the expression o f
unified demands from the local level to the formal government and contributes to the ability o f national
and provincialpoliticians to pursue patronage politics rather than an integrated strategy for development.
The key assets o f ruralpeople are land, still held incustomary tenure, and labor, but neither i s effectively
mobilizedbecause the fragmentary nature of demands andresponses means that social capital, human


                                                         - 80 -

capital, infrastructure and other assets which could enable full exploitation o f landand labor are all
poorly developed. Expansion o f local level social capital i s key to makingmore efficient use o f other
assets at both local and national levels.

GenderIssues: Women representhalfthe potential human capital o fthe country, but suffer from social
and cultural blockages to full participation. Women provide most o f the labor, inhousehold and
subsistence activities, are in inferior positions of authority to menand are subjects o f endemic domestic
and, increasingly, social violence. Women tendto be the producers while menare the transactors.
Though responsible for producing a majority o fthe wealth at the local level, women control little o f their
production.

A Participatory Frameworkfor Project Implementation

The project will support a variety o f local level sub-projects inrural areas o fPNG. These sub-projects
shouldbe designed and implementedinways which increasethe stock o f social capital at the local level
and improve the links between local andformal governmental institutions, thereby improving planningand
implementation andthe efficiency o f distribution o f fiscal resources. A participatory framework to
support this will include the following steps inproject identification andimplementation:

Social Mapping and Baseline Data Activities to provide information on key institutions, decisionmaking
individuals andbodies andhow they may play a role inthe development o f consensuson development
strategies.

Option Information and Awareness Buildingto inform people o f development options and lead to
consensusat the clan level on development strategies.

Multi-level ConsensusBuildingto develop consensus among several culture groups in a particular area
concerning development strategies.

Integration of Development Strategies andLocal Government Planningto bringarea development
strategies firmly into local government planningstrategies andimprove links between local and
government institutions.

Local Institution Capacity Buildingto give legal status to local CBOs andprovide them with institutional
development, management training and small scale enterprise training.

Sub-Project implementationto prepare, submit and implement locally designed and drivenprojects.

Social Analysis: Social assessment will be conducted in selectedareas where sub-projects are to be
implemented. This will consist of a baseline assessment, identification ofkey stakeholders andtheir
potential impact on the project, analysis o fkey formal andinformal institutions and the development o f
participatory monitoring and evaluationprocedures to provide ongoing information on project progress
and, ifnecessary, adapt project implementation or operation to meet changing circumstances.

Part Two: Kokoro Village Social Assessment

Introduction and Background

The social assessment o f Kokoro Village provides an illustrative view o f the situation and dynamics ina


                                                      - 81 -

rural area o f Papua New Guinea suitable as a locale for a sub-project under the proposed Forestry and
Conservation Project. Ths i s a rapid assessment, based on one week inthe Managalas Plateau and about
three days inthe village o f Kokoro.

Kokoro Village i s located ina highland plateau inOro Province, an area with considerable tropical
forestry resources and biodiversity. Access is by air or foot. The nearest airstrip i s at Itokama, five miles
distant. The Itokama-Afore Roadhas fallen into disrepair and no longer provides a linkto the rest o fthe
province, though it still serves as a foot track for travel among the villages o f the plateau.-

Phvsical and Social Structure of the Village

There are forty-three households with a total population o f 238 (130 male and 108 female). Houses are o f
bushmaterials, raisedon stilts. There is no electricity or runningwater. Women carry water from the
river, located about half a mile from the main village.

Village social structure is basedon a patrilineal clan system. Each clan consists o f several lineages and
each lineage o f several households. Inheritance is patrilineal, clans are exogamous with regard to
marriage andmarriage links are established with a number o f other villages on the plateau.

Subsistence and LivelihoodActivities

The garden is the center of Kokoro life. There are two gardens, a main one, located severalmiles from the
village on traditional land, and a smaller one planted near the village for daily needs. Gardening is time
and labor intensive. Women provide most o f the physical labor, including planting, tending and
maintaining, harvesting, and carrying produce from the garden to the village. Mendo much less work,
andoften go intothe bushto huntwhile the women are tendingthe gardens.

The gardenis culturally and socially significant.      The ground on which the gardenexists i s Papa Graun
(Father's Ground) becauseit was bequeathedto the present generation by the ancestors whose presence
ensures that the ground will be fertile for their descendants. Pattems o f land constitute a physical
genealogy o f the clans and the tribe,with locations anduse pattems reflecting social relationships among
villagers. The gardenprovides a variety o f foods, including yam, the basic food and central element inthe
extensive ceremonial exchange systemwhich binds Kokoro to other clans, villages and groups throughout
the plateau.

The main crops grown for income are chilies, coffee and okari nut. However, the deterioration o f the
transport system, notably the road, inrecent years means these activities are much less economic than they
were inthe seventies and early eighties.

Cash income levels are low, averaging probably about 100kina (about $50 US) per year. Cash needs are
also low, though significant enough to place a strain onmost households.

Public Services

The level o f service deliveryto the village i s low. The nearest clinic i s at ItokamaVillage, a two hour
walk, and rarely has significant supplies. The nearest primary school is also at Itokama. Supplies and
accommodations are substandard. The expense, combined with the distance and demands for children's
labor inthe gardens and village, result in only about half o f school age village children attending school at
any time.


                                                       - 82 -

Other services simply do not exist. Agricultural extension has not existed since the 1980s. The nearest
police station is a two day walk; there are nojudicial services on the plateau.



Stakeholders and Institutional Context

The main stakeholdersconcernedwith development inKokoroVillage are the formal government
institutions, representatives o f civil society, community based organizations, andthe traditional clan and
lineage based institutions o f the village (including households).

Formal government institutions are the national and provincial governments and the local government
council (LGC). Government's impact i s minor andhas dropped inrecent years. Today neither the
national nor the provincial levels have major impact at the village level. Services, primarily a provincial
responsibility, have declined, though minimal health and education services continue to be provided.

The LGC, based at Afore, has more impact since the councilors are infrequent contact with the people.
Still, villagers complain that the LGC has many plans, but no resources to cany them out. This i s largely
becausethe decentralization process, which includes large fiscal transfers to the provincial and local
levels, has not yet been implemented.

Civil society plays a larger role in the village. Outside NGOs have been active inthe area, helpingvillages
come to consensuson development strategies for the ten culture zones o f the plateau. NGOs were active
inthe struggle against declaration ofa Forestry Management Area, successhlly forestalling large-scale
logging operations inthe area.

The work o fNGOs has ledto the development o f community based organizations on the plateau. Kokoro
Village belongs to the Barai Non Formal Education Association (BNEA). BNEA has taken the lead in
information dissemination andawareness building, providing assistanceincash cropping initiatives and
helpinginthe buyingand sellingo fcrops incooperation with several CBOs from other culture zones.

The CBOs work with, and are based on, the clan structure o f the villages. The traditional clan system i s
still the basis o f social and political life inthe village. The absence o f outside securityAega1agents means
clans still are primary in dispute settlement and conflict resolution. Traditional methods o f discussion,
settlement andcompensation are almost ubiquitous. Clans play the primary role in significant events
(birth,marriage, death) andare the major vehicles for inter-village andinter-zone relations.

Major Social and Socioeconomic Issues:

Kokoro Villagers identifiedthe following as priorities for development intheir area:
           Maintenance o f the Itokama-Afore road link.
           Acquisition o f transportation, preferably a four wheel drive vehicle.
           Establishment of a hospital on the plateau.
           Establishmentof a wholesale outlet onthe plateau.
           Project assistancefor the women of the plateau.
           Doctors or other professional medical practitioners stationed inthe area.
           Wokabaut somil (portable sawmill) andtraining inits maintenance.
           Training inhow to organize and sell coffee.
           Cooperative marketing o fproduce andtraining inhow to do so.


                                                         - 83 -

FMradio for the plateau.
Airstripmaintenance for the Itokama Airstrip.
Improvements inthe education system, including literacy programs.
Coffee millslocated at strategic points on the plateau.
Micro-hydroproject to provide electricalpower.
Identification o f customary land boundaries.




                                            - 84 -

                                                 Additional
                                                 Annex 12

                             Papua New Guinea Conservation Trust Fund(CTF)

Supplemental Design Information

1. Introduction. The concept ofa CTF inPNGhasbeendiscussed since the early 1990s. In 1996,
The Nature Conservancy andthe UNDP-sponsoredBiodiversity Strengthening Programo fthe PNG
Office o f Environment and Conservation begancollaborating to develop a national consensus around the
creation o f a Trust Fundand its mission and operating plan. This has included very broad consultations
(over 500 meetings and interviewswith groups and individuals inPNG) as well as the preparation o f a
number o f key technical studes looking at legal, institutional and socio-political issues surrounding the
creation o f such a fund.

The overall scope ofthe CTF will cover forests and other areas such as marine sites. This annex outlines
the major design elements ofthe broader CTF -- including activities that will be funded by the GEF as
well as those fundedby other sources. The designelements inthis annex reflect the broad consultations
described above and agreement by the CTF Steering Committee, composed o f 14 leaders from key
governmental and non-governmental stakeholder groups. The Steering Committee assumedresponsibility
for directing the Trust Fundproject prior to the establishment of the Board o f Directors inMarch 1999.

The CTF Steering Committee andBoardof Directors will actively draw on the experiences of existing
CTFs, including reviewing in-depththe 1998 study by the GEF Evaluation of Experience with
Conservation Trust Funds, and adapting various design elements o f the PNG CTF as appropriate.

2. Goal andObjectives. The goal o f the Conservation Trust Fundi s to provide an ongoing and
reliable source of in-country funding for biodiversity conservation and sustainable development inPapua
New Guinea. Specific objectives include:
. to conserve -- and where necessary restore -- natural resource areas, particularly those that are national
   priorities ando f global significance interms o f biodiversity value;
. to strengthenthe capability ofresource owners to conserve andsustainably manage their ownnatural
   resources through education, training and other capacity-building activities built into projects; and
. to enhancethe knowledge and information baseneededto monitor andachieve sustainableresource
   management andbiodiversity conservation.

3. Linkagesto Other BiodiversityEnvironmentalStrategies. The CTF will establish particularly
strong linkages with the Ofice o f Environment andConservation (as described below). Inaddition, the
CTF will be appropriately integrated into relevant biodiversity/environmentalstrategies and programs,
such as: the National Forest and Conservation Action Plan (NFCAP), the Targeted Community
Development Program (TCDP), the Total Catchment Environmental Management (TCEM) Strategy, and
programs sponsoredby bilateral and multilateral agencies.

4. LegalInstrument. The Trust Fundwas established inApril 1999 as a tax-exempt, charitable body
under PNG law known as a "Trustee Company".          As requiredunder PNGlaw, the Trustee Company is
govemed by a Trust Deed (outlining the mission and essential design elements o f the Fund) and
Constitution (defining management structure and various rules under which the Fundshall operate).




                                                     - 85 -

5. Role of Office of Environment and Conservation (OEC). OEC serves as the leadgovernmental
agency within PNG on all conservation-related matters, including setting conservation priorities,
formulating conservation policies and implementing conservation programs. Thus, a strong cooperative
relationship will be developed between the OEC and the CTF: (i)      the OEC Director will hold an ex-officio
seat on the Board; (ii)  incarrying out its mission, the CTF will recognize andwork insupport ofthe role
o f OEC as the lead agency inconservation priority-setting; and (iii)  OEC-sponsored projects meeting
relevant criteria will be eligible for funding by the CTF.

6. Gove;rnanceand Structure. Some additional design informationon governance and structure issues
i s providedbelow:

(i)      Boardof Directors

Boardmembers are drawn from a wide range o f stakeholder groups, with members servingintheir
individual capacity with the sole objective o f achievingthe mission o f the Trust Fund. The Board will be
composed initially o f two ex-officio membersfrom Government Departments (who serve ina
representative rather than an individualcapacity), and approximately 8 private sector members serving
staggeredthree-year terms with three-year term limit. Board size may be expanded later, basedon
expertise andtechnical needs. Two sets o f provisional criteria have been developed for Board
membership:

Criteria set #1: For all Directors:
         Demonstrated commitment to the principles and mission o f the Trust Fund;
         Resident o f PNG; and
         Proventrack record o f distinguishedaccomplishment, integrity and experience in PNG.

Criteria set #2: Directors serving on the Board shall represent the following areas:
         Director o f OEC or successor agency
         Secretary o f Finance and Planning or successor agency
         Conservation planning, science or management (2 members)
         Community development
         Financialmanagement
         Private sector experience
         Management including project development and operations experience

The initial Board o f Directors was selected by the Settlor (The Nature Conservancy) inFebruary 1999, in
accordancewith the CTF's Constitution and inconsultation with the Steering Committee and an impartial
Selection Advisory Panel, following an open period o fnominations, including public announcementsand
a Stakeholders Assembly soliciting nominations. Thereafter, a transparent and participatory process will
beusedbythe Board to elect its own successors. Fixedterms andterm limitswill help to stimulate the
involvement o fnew members. The Boardwill take active measuresto ensure that interested stakeholders
have meaningful input into (i)   assessment o f Boardperformance; (ii)   Boardcomposition issues; and (iii)
the nominations process. One keymechanism for this will be an annual Stakeholders General Assembly.

The focus o f the Boardwill be on over-arching policies and priorities o f the CTF, financial management,
andfosteringpublic-private partnerships necessary to buildconsensusandraise funds. The CTF's
by-laws and other rules relatedto Board procedures will include strong provisions to reduce potential
conflicts o f interest. The Board will assure that priorities, procedures, and operating plans are reasonable


                                                      - 86 -

and transparent, and that the Management Unit carries them out efficiently.

(ii) ManagementUnit

Day-to-day management and administrationo f the Trust Fund's activities would be carried out by a
Management Unitheadedby an Executive Director appointed by and responsible to the Board. The Unit
would be responsible for activities such as: preparation o f annual work plans and budgets; development
andimplementationof systemsfor soliciting, receiving, reviewing,andrecommending proposals; and
regular reporting to the Board on program andproject implementation. The Management Unitwill be
kept relatively lean, and the percentageo fFundassets available for administrative costs will be capped
(e.g., 20% o f resources annually available). Instead o f buildinga large permanent staff for the Fund,
there will be a preference for reliance on short-term and consultant expertise, and developing expertise
within other PNG organizations that can be contracted to provide services. Rather than becoming an
executing agency itself, the Management Unitwill, as muchas possible, work through and with other
organizations inPNG.

(iii) TrustAdvisor(commencementphase)

An organization experienced inTrust Fundswill be contracted to serve as Trust Advisor duringthe
critical start-up phase. This will entail providing assistance inthe following areas:
         legal issues, taxation, financial management, personnel, information management, tracking
         systems, and other technical matters encountered duringthe start-up phase;
         liaison with major donors andproviding help insecuring additional financial contributions;
         supporting the establishment and capacity buildingo f the Management Unit;
         assisting with identification and resolution o f problems; and
         providing other appropriate support to the Board o f Directors and staff in carrying out their
         responsibilities.

(iv)     Technical Advisory Committees

Technical committees will be established to assist inreview and selection o f project proposals as well as
project oversight (plus any functions where the Board andor Management Unitrequire added technical
expertise).

7. Linkages. The CTF will establish strong, collaborative and synergistic linkages with the Office of
Environment andConservation (as described above) and other relevant bodies and programs, such as: the
Steering Committees o f the National Forest and ConservationAction Plan (NFCAP), the Targeted
Community Development Program, the Total Catchment Environmental Management (TCEM) Program,
the UNDP-sponsoredRamuCatchment Biosphere Reserve Initiative, the GEF Small GrantsProgram, and
other programs sponsoredby PNG government agencies and international agencies.

8. Constitutionand Trust Deed. The Constitution andTrust Deedwill serve as the principal legal
instrumentsofthe CTF. Together, they will include amongtheir provisions:

         definition o fthe Fund's mission, goal, and over-arching objectives;
         definition of the general categories o f activities to be supported, andeligible beneficiaries, with
         provisions for modification o f same by the Board;
         terms goveming invasion (i.e., drawdown) o f endowment principal;
         definition of the Trust Fund's other operative bodies, and the responsibilities andauthority o f


                                                       - 87 -

        each,
        elaboration o f Board procedures;
        requirements for annual audits o f operational, grant-making, and asset management programs;
        general procedures governing grant-makingprograms;
        a cap on the annual operating budget, and procedures for modifying the cap;
        procedures for modification o f the bylaws;
        provisions for overriding specific by-laws (Thiswill likelybe only through unanimous decision o f
        the Management Board, inorder to ensurethe maintenance ofthe endowment andintegrity ofthe
        Fund's original purpose); and
        provisions for the dissolution o f the Trust under extraordinary circumstances, and disposition o f
        assets in case o f dissolution. (The disposition o f the assets will be left to the discretion o f each
        donor).

9. Management of Trust Capital

The following steps will be taken to ensure responsible management o f the trust capital:
        Assets will be managed offshore by professional asset managers o f international standing, under
        discretionary contract, to invest funds inmajor intemational financial markets;
        Fundswill be transferred from offshore accounts to central fund accounts inPNGon the basis of
        definedspendingrules andannual expense and grant disbursementneeds,
        Conservative investment guidelines aimed at preservation o f capital and generation o f adequate
        income will be approved by the Board and serve as the basis for managing assets;
        Appropriate financial management and auditing controls will guide the management o f sinking
        funds andendowment income;
        As a private charitable body underPNGlaw, andwith amulti-stakeholder governance structure,
        the Trust Fundwill have sufficient checks andbalances built into its legal instruments to prevent
        any one stakeholder group from prevailing indecision-making;




                                                     -88  -

                                                    Additional
                                                    Annex 13

                                             EnvironmentalReview
Introduction

          The Environmental Review was prepared prior to the appraisal mission, and was finalized during
the mission and identifies thepotentialenvironmental risks andbenefits associatedwith the proposed
Forestry and Conservation Project. Herewith is an edited summary o f the review.

Without project situation EnvironmentalIssuesin PNG's Forest Sector
                               -

          As inmany countries, the nature, pace, and scope o f forest management inPNG is a controversial
topic. At the heart o f the controversy inthe PNG context are several key concerns. These include: (a)
lack o f transparency inthe process o f landallocation and award o f forest concessions; (b) lack o f clarity
inthe rules, regulations, obligations and rightsofforest companies vis-&vis locallandowners; (c)
allocation o f forest harvesting rightsinareas considered to be o f highbiodiversity or other ecological
service values; (d) lack o f meaningfulpublic consultationprocedures; and (e) no apparent adherenceto
basic environmental planning.

The environmental implications ofthese concernspotentially include:

     allocation o f forest areas to log harvesting or other forms o f land clearing without due consideration
     o f alternative values and services o f these lands such as for biodiversity conservation, watershed
     protection, erosion control, or other possible landuses;
     rapid allocation o f forest lands to commercial production without due consideration o f the actual
      ecological values provided by the forest;
      landuse decisions which do not incorporate the views anddesires o f local communities;
     introduction o f silvicultural practices which may be inappropriate (unsustainable) for the specific
     ecological context resulting inlong-term degradation o f the forest;
     forest harvesting relies on large scale commercial operations with out due consideration givento
      alternative small andmediumoperations which are less destructive;
      landowner initiated conservation areas and non-commercial forest management activities are
      frequently faced with significant obstacles;
     rapid expansion of logging operations without ability to enforce regulations on acceptable harvesting
     techniques or to monitor compliance with the harvesting code o fpractices and environmental
     legislation leadingto unnecessaryand avoidable environmental damage and destruction o f habitats.

          While at the level o f broad national policy, PNG is committed to sustainable management o f its
forest resources (and infact, this is a requirementunder the PNG constitution), it i s evident that inthe
past two decades sustainability has been compromised. In 1989 the Commission qflnquiw into the
Papua New Guinean Forestq Sector concluded that loggingpractices were causing irreversible damage
to forest resources, and impairing ecosystem functions. In 1991the GOPNG initiated the National Forest
andConservation Action Program, inconjunction with the Bank and other donors, to reverse these trends.
The Forest Act (1991 and amended in 1993) facilitates establishment of a sustainable forest industry.




                                                       -89 -

Project Objectivesand Components

         The Forestry and Conservation Project intends to assistthe Government o fPNGwiththe
implementation o f its national forest strategy. The Forest and Conservation Project's central objectives
will be to improve the environmental sustainability of forest harvests andto implementan effective
strategy to promote conservation areas and small-scale sustainable-use enterprises. Implementation of
independent inspection activities will be structured so as to allow monitoring o f improvements inforest
harvest techniques. Conservation goals will be measured by trends inproject numbers and area o f lands
that are under a conservation management regime.

         The project will address these objectives through four related components, which are described in
detail inthe Project Appraisal Document and Project Implementation Plan. Briefly, the components are:

    .... Landowner Forest Decision-Making
         Conservation Trust Fund
         Sustainable Forest Management
         Environmental Assessment andMonitoring

ExpectedEnvironmentalImpacts

         The PNG forest project is currently classified as a "B" category project under the terms o f World
BankOperational Directive 4.01. The project is not expected to have major negative environmental
impacts. Infact, the project's components will address many o f the problems that confront the
environmentally sustainablemanagement o f PNG's forest resource.

         Significant aggregate improvements in forest management, biodiversity conservation and
protected area establishment are expected. Areas that are to be managed for sustained yield natural
forestry are to be maintained in a condition that will lead to widespread forest regeneration, andnot to
follow-on deforestation after timber harvests. Culturally appropriate conservation, protected area and
community based sustaineduse policies and strategies are to be implemented. The project intends to
ensure that conservation i s integrated as a component o f sustainable forest management.

         Based on the information available to date, the review o f the PNG Forestry and Conservation
Project indicates that project actions will have beneficial environmental impacts primarily through its
components dlrected at improvingforest management, supporting forest protection programs, introducing
more sustainable andproductive forest management techniques, introducing more transparent
participatory management arrangements and supporting several biodiversity conservation initiatives.

         Ifsuccessful, theprojectwill movetheforest administrationalongway towards four important
goals. First, it will establish a more transparent decision making process andthus lead to increased forest
sector govemance. Second, it will help to ensure adherenceto principles o f environmental planning.
Third, it will improve opportunities for public input to the decisionprocess. Fourth, it will strengthen the
conservation capacity o f PNG. The global environmental objective i s to foster improvedmanagement and
conservation o fbiodiversity and important forest ecosystems inone o f the world's most important
remainingtropical rainforest regions. Doing so maintains option and existence values associated with
intact biodiversity stores and functional tropical ecosystems.

         Expectedmonitorable outcomes o f project activities would be: (i)   establishment o fpermanent
conservation areas inthe PNG context, andon customarily owned land, that are representative o f PNG's


                                                     - 90 -

biodiversity; (ii) maintenance of wide-spread and regenerating forest cover inmanaged forests, especially
inareas near sensitive conservation sites; (iii)  provision for conservation reserves within logging sites to
be incorporatedinto Forest Management Agreements;(iv) establishment of legal mechanisms and
financial instruments able to support landowner basedconservation and sustainable-use activities; (v)
increased landowner participation in, and benefits from, design and operation o f sustainable-forestry
enterprises.

         Environmental considerations are mainstreamed into virtually every component o f this project and
are integrated inplanning, design, implementation, andmonitoring activities both at the local and regional
scales. Project components are integrated into a comprehensive strategy to address forest sector issues.
Project components are oriented towards addressingmost o f the main environmental issues associated
with forest management. The review indicates that there are no major negative impacts arising from
project actions. Furthermore, the project is consistent with World Bank Operational Policies and
Directives for forestry activities and environmental assessment OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
4.36 and 4.04 (Natural Habitats).

         The preceding statements do not implythat the project is risk free. These conclusions are based
on assumptions regarding the effectiveness o f project components at addressing major issues. Ifthe
project i s ineffective at addressing the constraints o f the sector, the project risks further polarizing the
debate over the Bank's role inthe sector andthe overall commitment of government to reformin
the sector.

MitigationMeasures

          Table 1provides a detailed description o f project activities, the associated field activities,
potential environmental impacts, mitigation measureproposed and key assumptions which apply to each
project component. While the findings indicate that specific project activities will not have direct negative
impacts on the ground there are, nonetheless, environmental risks associatedwith the project. These risks
stem from the possibility that:

     .     the Bank's involvement inthe sector is perceivedby stakeholders as further entrenching the
           status quo which i s seen by NGOs to be a giveaway to large commercial interests;
           theproject fails to meet its objectives and a significant opportunity to promote the sustainable
           development o f the sector is lost;

     .    technical management options supported under the project do not meet their statedgoals;
           the project furthers the goals and aspirations o f a single constituency (i.e., timber industry

     .     interests) over the legitimate interests o f other groups;
          the project leads to delays inimplementationwhich undermines the credibility o f the government
           andthe Bank;

Alternatives to Project Design

         The altematives considered for this project included: the no-project scenario; a project narrowly
focused on institutional capacity buildinginthe NFA; a project with strong emphasis on commercial
plantations; and a muchbroader project focusing on a wider range o fnatural resource management issues
not limitedto forestry. With the possible exception o f the last option, none of these altematives would
have offered the potential for sustainable forest management, environmental planningandbiodiversity
conservation as the current design. The no-project and narrowly focused altematives would simply be
non-responsive to the urgent needs o f the sector. Similarly, a project focused on plantation activity would


                                                        - 91 -

serve the interests o f a limitedconstituency andinany case it i s not clear that sufficient private interest in
this type ofinvestment is available at this time.

Stakeholder ConsultationDuringPreparation

         The focus duringproject preparation has been working inclose consultation with all PNG forest
sector stakeholders; including government, local and intemational NGOs, landowners andothers.
Throughout the development o f the project concept, pre-appraisal and appraisal; dozens o f meetingshave
beenheldwith development partners. The project was not developed as aplanto be accepted or rejected
by stakeholders; rather, from the beginningthe project has evolved as ideashave beencontributedby
multiple parties. On some half a dozen occasions, draft project documentation has been widely
disseminated and comments received, leading to substantial adaptive development o f the project.

Summary

         The environmentalreview o fthe PNG Forest Conservation Project indicates that project actions
have potential beneficial environmental impacts by improving forest productivity, supporting forest
protection programs, introducing more sustainable andproductive forest management techniques,
reducing pressure on forest resources through participatory management arrangements and supporting
several biodiversity conservation initiatives. Environmental considerations are mainstreamed in almost
every component o f this project, and are integrated inplanning, design, implementation, andmonitoring
activities both at the local and regional scales. Project Components are oriented towards addressing most
o f the main environmental issues associatedwith forest management. The review indicates that there are
no major negative impacts arisingfrom project actions. The project is incompliance with World Bank
Operational Policies andDirectives for forestry activities andenvironmental assessment (OD/OP 4.01;
4.36 and 4.04).




                                                     - 92 -

Projectcomponent: Sustainable Natural ForestManagement

Project Activity      PotentialFieldAction          Natureand scope of potentialMitigationproposed Key assumptions
                                                    environmentalimpacts



Independent           e third party site              no negative impacts              monitor work and        recommendations and
inspection and        inspections o f forest        anticipated;                     effectiveness o f       findings o f inspectors are
reporting             operations;                                                    inspection teams;       respectedand acted upon:
                                                      potentially positive benefits
                                                    associated with improved
                                                    compliance, more consistent
                                                    application o f forest rules and
                                                    regulations;
Forest planning           forest inventory and      e no direct negative impacts of    monitor                  potential for positive
                      field data collection         planningare anticipated;         implementation o f      impacts assumes that
                                                                                     sub-component           information generated is
                          aerial and satellite        specific actions contained                             relevant to the landuse
                      remote sensing surveillance within a management plan may establish effective           allocation decisions;
                      o f field operations;         have environmentally             mechanism for
                                                    contentious elements (road       monitoring compliance information i s provided
                          forest map production     building land clearing,          with code o f practices; a timely manner;
                                                    logging,)
                          land suitability                                             ensure that              forest authority uses the
                      assessment                      potentially positive impacts managementplanning information for planning;
                                                    resulting from improved          procedures permit
                          preparation of            knowledge base, monitoring       adequate public            formulated plans actual]
                      management plans              capacity,                        consultation             get implemented;

                          improve information                                          EIA procedures to be     planning process must
                      systems                                                        determined for each      include steps to evaluate
                                                                                     management plan;         the environmental impact

Natural forest            Silvicultural practices -- long term sustainability o f      adherence to logging     recommended field
regeneration          selective removal o f weeds, regenerationactivities;           code o fpractice;        practices are proven to
                      pruning, thinning,                                                                      represent best practice foi
                      re-planting                     limited soil erosion potential; limited use o f         type o f forests;
                                                                                     agro-chemicals in
                                                      risk o finappropriate          weeding operations         field practitioners comp
                                                    silvicultural treatments;                                 with regulations
                                                                                       limituse of
                                                      non-point source pollution     mechanized land            monitoring capacity is
                                                    associated with agro-chemicals clearing                   sufficient to identify case:
                                                    used for weeding and other                                o f non-compliance;
                                                    land clearing practices;
Timber industry           adoption o f improved       no negative impacts              Monitor                  sanctions and incentive:
incentivesand         field practices by private    anticipated;                     implementation o f       are sufficient to modify
sanctions             sector;                                                        incentive programs       corporate behaviors;
                                                      anticipatedpositive impacts and sanctions
                          introduce performance     associated with improved field                              there exists political w i
                      bonds linked to compliance practices;                                                   to enforce sanctions
                      with logging code o f
                      practice;
                    1.    ranking o f corporations I                                 I                       I
                  /performance;




                                                            - 93 -

                                                               - -
[Forest Management     1.  establish set asides,     /*-&%egative impacts                                     /*set asides are endorsed
                                                                        __I          7performance
Area ConservationSet                                   anticipated                      monitoring;            and respected by forest
Asides                      field demarcation                                                                  management stakeholders;
                                                         potential positive impacts
                           management planning;        include greater consideration of                           monitoring system is
                                                       biodiversity in forest planning;                        capable o f identifying
                           enforcement of plan                                                                 non-compliance;
                         provisions                      larger and areas set aside for
                                                       biodiversity                                               sanctions andpenalties

I                        I                            I                                 I


 'rojectcomponent: Lani wner Forest Decision
 ictivity                    PotentialFieldAction Natureand scope of                   Mitigationproposed Key assumptions
                                                        potentialenvironmental
                                                        impacts
 mplementimproved              will lead to range o f     not able to determine          procedures must       1reform of decision making
 ,ystemsof resource          field activities;          impacts, a priori, as they     allow for EA of         mcesses will reduce
 lecision making                                        will relate to specific        proposed field          ncidence o f unplanned
                                                        recommendations which          activities generated    :xploitation;
                                                        derive from improved           from process;
                                                        processes;                                             1better decision making
                                                                                         monitoring or        dlincorporateawider
                                                                                       process                 .ange o f landand natural
                                                                                       implementation          iabitat concerns;
 kvelopmentoptions             long range                 not able to determine          as above              D That more informed
 ;tudy                       development options        potential impacts as they                              andowners will makebettei
                             defined                    will relate to specific          ensure that the full iecisions inregard to forest
                                                        recommendationswhich           range o f forest       sustainability .
                                                        derive from improved           management options
                                                        processes;                     and costs and benefits
                                                                                       o f each are presented.
                                                          possibility that mort
                                                        landowners choose large
                                                        industrial scale logging
 iwarenessand educatioi        training and other         unlikely to have any direct    as above (#1)         B as above (#1)
 naterials                   activities                 negative impact
 'olicy to permitclan          conservation area          unlikely to have any direct    as above (#1)         D as above (#1)
 )ased conservation          establishment on           negative impact;
                             :ustomaw land:
 Sstablishmentof large       B collective decision                                                             D areas identified will have
 :onservationareas           making to identify         removal o f areas from                                2iodiversity values;
                             specific initiatives       production forest status will
                                                        improvebiodiversity                                    D stakeholders will respect
                                                        protection and conservation                            :he defined management
                                                        efforts;                                               neas:


                                                                                                               B enforcement andprotectio
                                                                                                              neasures adopted will be
                                                                                                               :ffective at reducing
                                                                                                               xessure with the defined
                                                                                                               irea


                                                                                                               B penalties will be sufficieni
                                                                                                              ieterrent to inappropriate
                                                                                                              forest uses;




                                                              - 94 -

Project component: EnvironmentalProtection
Activity               Potential FieldAction         Nature and scope of          \litigation proposed    Key assumptions
                                                     potential environmental
                                                     impact
Technical assistance    fielding o f govemment         no direct negative           monitoring              institution i s effective at
for design and         environmental staff to        impacts;                     implementation          establishing its mandate;
implementation of      monitor and assess                                         progress;
environmental          compliance with                 potential positive impacl                            funding i s adequate;
institution            environmental regulations     resulting from improved
                                                     environmental due                                      mandate o f institution i s
                                                     diligence, oversight, and                            accepted andrespected buy
                                                     quality control on                                   other authorities;
                                                     environmental issues


Investigate feasibility conduct field research         no direct impacts            feasibility study TOR
of environmental                                                                  to include specific     That the government will
levies to recover costs                                impacts depends on fina    reference to the        allow revenues to flow
of operating                                         recommendations, nature      environmental           directly to OEC
institution                                          o f the levies to            implications o f such
                                                     implemented                  levies;




I
Pro'ect com onent: Conservation Trust Fi
Activity               Potential FieldAction Nature and scope of            Mitigation proposed          Key assumptions
                                              potential environmental
                                              impact
Establishment o f                                                           .
                                              1   Govemance and                Ensure those with             That a biodiversity
fund andits                                   operation will effect fund's biodiversity conservation     conservation trust fund i s
governance                                    effectiveness                 expertise and dedication     operable under PNG
                                                                            control the fund             conditions;

Fundingof activities      Establishment o f   .  Potential that too many    .  Screening during          .   That lack o f hnding is   i
related to             small scale            small activities will         grant-making process         constraint on sustained-use
biodiversity           community-base         cumulatively impact                                        forest activities with a
conservation           sustained-use and      biodiversity;                                              biodiversity conservation
                       conservation areas     1  Projects that do not                                    aspect
                                              completely incorporate
                                              biodiversity conservation




                                                            - 95 -

                                                   Additional
                                                    Annex 14

                                       Forest ProtectionPolicy Condition

The following is text of agreedrevisions to regulations on approval o f large agricultural projects which
invole felling o f natural forests:

AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS

      All proposals for large scale agricultural development (50 hectaresor more) which involve the
clearance o f forest, regardless o f to whom they are first submitted, to be directed to:

         (i)ThePNGForestAuthorityforitsevaluationandBoardendorsedreportontherequiredforest
             clearing;
         (ii)TheDepartmentofAgricultureandLivestockforitsevaluationandreportontheproposed
             agncultural development; and,
         (iii) OfficeofEnvironmentandConservationforitsevaluationandreportonthe
             The
             environmental impacts.


      The NEC to consider all three above reports before giving it's approval for the proposal.
         The proponent to show proofthat they can fund the agricultural development completely without
 reference, or the need to, sell or export forest produce to fund a project;

        The proponent o fthe agricultural development to lodge with the Forest Authority a performance
 bond o f not less than 15% o f the total agricultural investment. This bond i s to be usedto rehabilitate the
 areas clearfelled where the agricultural development does not take place or its considered by the
 Department o f Agriculture andLivestock to be likely to fail. Where successful development takes place
 the bondto be reimbursed:

        The Forest Authority and DepartmentofAgriculture and Livestock to coordinate and determine
 the most appropriate Timber Authority conditions; and

        Where a project i s approved, the issuance o f the requiredTimber Authorities under the Forestry
 Act to be subject to the conditions prescribedinthe Forestry Regulations, and to the Department o f
 Agriculture and Livestock's procedures for the evaluation o fprogress with the implementation o f the post
 forest clearance agricultural development work.

 NEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION


         The constructiono fnew public roads through forested areas not to be fundedby the logging o f a
         wide forest corridor;

         Forest clearance for new public road constructionto be limitedto a 40 metre wide corridor; and

        Before a timber authority is processed by the Forest Authority, the relevant Provincial
         Government must confirm inwriting that the proposed road is on the National and or Provincial



                                                      - 96 -

transport plan and that it agrees with the roadbeingbuild, andthat where it is to be responsible
that it can afford to maintain the road.

directed as follows:-

That the Forest Authority review the Forestry Regulations to ensure their consistency with the
above policies before they are Gazetted;
That the Department of Agriculture and Livestock prepare internal procedures for the evaluation
o f proposed Agricultural Development Projects, and for the evaluation of successful
implementation;
That the Department of Agriculture andLivestock finalise the preparation o f these procedures by
1 August 1996;
That no more Timber Authorities be issuedfor agricultural clearance or new public road
development untilthe above policies are inplace andare beingimplemented;
That consistent with NEC Decision No. 36/96,proposals currently under consideration will be
reviewedto ensure consistency with the above new forest protectionpolicy andalready existing
guidelines and procedures. Where they are not consistent, any formal or impliedapprovals for
these projects will be formally withdrawn. Specific proposalwhich will be reviewed are:
.    The Aitape forestry/oil palmproject
.    The Gunga-Aimbak road
     The GasmatmitmanRange road




                                            -97 -

         ii                                                    1            1          Additional
                                                                                         Annex 15

                                                           Annex 15: First Year Procurement Schedule
 I        1                                                    I            I            I                    I".

 ~   1;      rkName                                                Dur         Pre;        ~   Start          ~                      E.E
           1BORROWWGREEIIEYITO PRE-PROJECT                        U n k r                     Tue 7/17 01
          FIYAYCI\G                                                                                               71

          2 PROJECTYEGOTIATIO\S                                   0 days                      Tue 10 9 01
                                                                                                                          1019

          3 BOARD PRESEYTATIOY                                    0 days                     Thu I 1 29/01



 ,                                                                                                                         I *
       4  4 PROJECTEFFECTIVENESS                                  0 aki                       sun 3/31/02



       5  5 BUDGETINGANYDOPEWTlOiVALFUNYDING                    19.4 w b                      Tue 8128101
 I                                                                                                                   -                3131

                                                                                                                      "I9 4 w k i

 I
       6      5.1 EstablishExrcutingAgencyTrustAccount            4 a k i     3FSi2uks       Thu 12/13/01
              (EATA) inPNG Kina                                                                                                  I

       7      5.2 Budgetand approve fundingofProject              3 nkr         2SF           Tue9,18,01
              ManagementUnit                                                                                         n

       8      5.3 Establish Project OversightCammittce(POC)       6 wki         2SF           TW   w n i o i
                                                                                                                     =I

 '     9      5.4Appoint Members afPOC                            6nki          2SF           Tue 8128.01
                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                            i
   10         5.5 Appoint ComponentManagcrsin Implementing         Iu'k            3         Thu 11/29/01            -
              Agencies (IAr)                                                                                                   0

   11    I  . 5.6 Prepareaffi~esandtemporaryfumishingsto          4 a k r          7          Tue 10/9/01
              enableP W 10 functian                            I           I             I                    I         0

   12         5.7 ESTABLISH PROJECTIIANAGEMEhT                  14 3 w b                      Tue9111101              i 4 3hi
              UNIT

   13             5 7 IEmploy Project Manager(PM) aithin          4 wks         2SF           Tue 9,1 1/01                 1 . )


                  PMLI

   14             5 7 2 Appainment af Accountant,PTocurrmenr      2 wks      13FSc8 3 wki    Wed I2 5/01
                  Speciahstand Secretary far PMLI                                                                                c

   15     6 PROCUREMEYlPRELIIlI\ARlES                            11 H b                      Thu 11/29101           ,         w
                                                                                                                    1
  16          6 IPrepareTems ofRefrrenceforTechnica1              Xwki          3.13         Thu 11/29/01
              Arsistance andConnacted Services                                                                      ,          t
         I                                                                                                           . ,    .. +
  17          6.2Re\irwofTORr by Bankandissue'Xo                  3wkr            16          Thu 1U24.02           ,
              Obption".

  16          6 3 PublicatianafGenc~lProcurementUatlcem           Iwk           3 14         Ued 12/19/01           '
              'Dewlopmen1Business for ICE~onmcts
I                                                                                                                   I
  19      7 DETAUSBY CATEGORYAVD PROCUREIIENT                   49 6 r k r                    Tus7/17101
          IIETHOD
                                                               I
  20          7.1 CIVILWORKS                                    2 4 7 r l u                 Wed 12/19/01
                                                                                                                                          I

                  7.1.1Cwd Wol.lup~ckageswith\alw from          2 4 7 n b                   Wed 12/19/01
                  US50,OO and above(YCB)                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                      *" ''    i
  22                   7.1.1.1 Preparetechmcalspecificationsand   6wki          3.14         Wed l2'19i01        '..I'
                       compileSBDr

  23                   7.1.1.2 Pnorreviewofdocumentsby Bank       2uks           22          Ued 1/30'02
I                      andissue'No Objection"

  24                   7.1.1.3 lnvitationto Bid                   Iwk           4.23          sun 3/31/02
I

  25                   7.1.1.4Bidpenod                           4wkr           24SS          sun 3/3 1/02
                                                                                                                                              ,




                                                                                            - 98 -

 I                                                                                    ZOO2
   ID TaskName                                        Dur.     Pred.    start
   26          7.1.1.5 Bid opening                    Iday      25      Fn 4 26102




                                                                                       * --
                                                                                       617




 I
   36          7.1.2.5 Evaluationofbids by FCMTB     2*ks       35     Mon4/29/02



   37         7.1.2.6Award ofconsact to successful    3 u,ki    36     Mon5'13'02
              bidder

   38         7.1.2.7 Slgncontract                   Ouks       37      FnSr31102
                                                                                      5131




                                                                                      0




                                                                                          _ _




                                                                                      3

I             7.2.1.9 Signconnacr                    0 wks      40      Fn 6r21~02
                                                                                        6/21
  49
                                                                                      ~
                                                                                  -




                                                                     - 99 -

                                                                               Wed 12'19~01
           VALUEOF USS20,OOOUPTO USS100,OOO                                                   - 22 7 w
                                                                                                            a

                                                                               Wed 12i19i01
              campile S B h                                                                   I

                                                                               Wed 1/16:02
             Procurement Specialist                                                            O
                                                                             I
    53       1.2.2.3 Issue'WNa0bjectmn"to bldby           I %'k       52       Wed 1i23.02
             P W                                                                               0

             7.2 2.4 lnviratianto Bid                                           sun 3,31/02



             1.2.2.5 Bid period



             7.2.2.6 Bid opening                                                 Fn4/19/02



    57       7.2.2.7 E\aluatmofblds by FCMTB             2 u'ki       56       Mon4/22/02




                                                                                                            1


                                                                                            -                 5'

                                                                                              1 7 5 w k s




                                                                                                            18


                                                                                                  v      -
                                                                                                  T I
 I                                                                                                       1


                                                                                                 P  / I
 ~ 68        7.3.1.1CONTTUCTS WITHVALUE                1 7 w h                 Thu 2114102
             EQUALTO OR GRFATERTHAN
             US16100,000(QCBS)
   69            7.3.1.1.1 IAsandPMU preparecast        2wks      14.16.17     Thu2,14/02
                 estimates andbudget
 i                                                   II        II          II              I
   70 lI
      I
                 7.3.1.1.2Prepare"shorthst"affirms      2wkr        69SS       Thu2i14.02



                 7.3.1.1.3 PrepareRequest for           2wks        69SS       Thu 2/14/02
                 Proposals, Informationto Consultants
                 &Contract Farm
   72            7.3.1.1.4 Rev1ewand"No Objection"      3 u'kr    69,70,71     Thu 2,28i02
                 by IBRD to issueW P

  73             7.3. I.I.5 PMU issue FSP               4 wks        72        Thu3/21/02
I

  74             7.3.1 1.6 Recei\,eproposals           0 n,ks        73        Tue4/16/02

                                                                                                         -  6




                                                                             -100     -

                                       v'




I    EQUALTOOR GRE4TERTH4h         c
     USS100,OOO(CQ)




                              -101-

                           ....




                           .. .




I    I    I    I      I




                - 102-

  133          7.4.1.5 Bid opening                       lday      132     Wed 5115#02



  134          7.4.1.6 Eraluationafb~dsby F C m B        Zwks      133     Thu5/16/02



  135          7.4.1.7"No Objectidby Bank to award        Iwk      134     Thu 5/3U102
              contract

                                                       I       I        I
  136          7.4.1.8 Award ofcontract to successful    3 wks     135      Thu 6/6/02
              bidder




                                                                                       0


                                                                                       c




 144          7.4.2.6 Evaluationafbids by FCMIB          2 wkr    143      Thu4.25102



 145         7.4.2.7' n o 0bjcctian"by Bankto award      Iwk      I44      Thu 5/9/02
             contract
i            7 4.2.8 Award ofcontract to successful      2u'ki    145     Thu 5:16:02
 146 I       bidder                                   I       1         I             I
             7 4 2 9 Signcontract                                         Wed 5/29 02



         7 4 3 ALLCONTRACTS (SHOPPIVG)
         WITHVALUELESS THAY US%ZO,OOO



             procured,delivery schedule andquotation
             format




                                                                         -103-

-PO1-

                                                                                       Additional
                                                                                       Annex 16

                                                    Annex 16: Six.

 ID TaskName                                      Durallon        Predecessors        <
 1 PROJECT\EGOTIATIOhS                                 0 wks



 2  B04RDPRESENTATION                                 0 wks



 3  PROJECTEFFECTNEhESS                                0 days



1
 4  PMRBASED DISBURSEMENT                          44 8 wks



 5     Review lo datemine feasibility of adopting    M B w k s                   35s
       PMR based disbursamnl

 6  LA\DOW~~RFORESTDECISIOY-\IAKI\G                 313 6 **L.
    COllPOYEYT

17     DevelopmcntOptions Study                     311 6 vks




 8         DOS Strategy Adoption and LDOU            252wkr           35558dsyo
           Establishment

 9 I       Development of DOS methods and              39 wkr         ass159 days
           mechanisms                                                                I
           LDOU and DOS training                     152*XI           9SSi29days



           Implementation of DOS 1 activities        2 2 9 r k r i    055-6Odays




 12        DOS 2 Implementation

I
 13        Develop and distribute educational and    302                         35s
           information materials

 14        MOYITORIYGTARGET LDOU                        " V x r                     *
           established andDOS straleg) adopted

 15        \IONITORING                                  " V x r                     I
           TARGET Implementstionofeducntion
I          plan forlandowners
118    Strengthening of LsndoHnerRDpresentatIve      3 W w h
       Mechanisms

 17        Review and updating ILGlegislation        91 6 wks           ISSr2 wk6
           and regulations

 18        Drafting and publicabon of ILG              39 wkr                      17
           procedures manual

 19        Implementing new ILG regulation          1574wk            18F5112wXr



 20        Community training in ILGformation       1s74wk                     195s



 21        Landowner organization formation         193 4 wks         205s 36 wits



 22       VOYITORIVGTARGET Approvalof                   Ow-            1 7 F S ~ 4 w k
          necessaryenablingregulations                                                                  I

                                                                                                        ~
           \IOYITORIhGTARGFT.Presentation                                                            ....I
                                                        0 W b          22F56nh3
          of necessarylegulntion to Parliament                                                          i
~23
 24       IIOYITORIVGTARGET Workshopon                  0 w k         23FS+12wkr
          bestpracticesforlandowner
          organizations
 25       MO\ITORIhGTARGET Representative               0wkr         21SS*78 w b
          landownerorganuationsfunctroningm
          tQ%offorertr) prqectareas                                                               i



                                                                                        - 105 -

                                                                                                         i
                                                                                           ~
                                                                                         2002     2004
 ID TarkName                                       Duratlon       Predecessors        [
 26        \IONITORIYGTARGET Representatire               Owil       25FS+111 w l
           IPndownerorganizationsfunctioningin
           8Q%offorrstrv projectareas
127    LandGroupBaiedConsenation & Resource         2 9 7 5 r k *                                         I   I
       \Ianagement 4reas

 26        Design mechanizabons and legal basis          3SW*           3FS-4whs
           for land group based CMAs                                                                        . -
 29        Develop capacity in DEC lo help          1264w+s            285514W*s
           landowner grwps
                                                                                                              I
 30        Establish inilial canmunity based          235 w l         2955-52 w b                         b
           CMAs                                                                                               I

 31        \IOYITORIVGTARGET Legal and                    O w l       28FS*52w+r
           regulatory bails for establishment of
           landownermsnsgedC\I~s                                                                              I

 32        \IOYITORINGTARGET CMAprqectr                   0 wlu      3OSS-lM w l
           operatingin one majorwatershed
I                                                                                                         -
           \IONITORIYGTARGET ChIAprolects                 o w l     32SSr1375wb
           operatingin three majorwsterihedr

 34 COYSERVATIOYTRUST Fb\D                          31SlWk.




       EstablishmentAct~ltiei                           52xhs                                                 I
~35
 36        Establish administrative office               52 nil                     2




 37        Establish inveslment management and           39**.                 36SS
           financial audit system

 38    CommeneementActrvltles                       309 Ir*.




 39        Fund raising plan development and        'D46wks                        37
           implementation

 40        Utilize project grants /establish           l C 4 W b                   31
           demonstraton prqects

 41        Develop project appraisal and                 39 W l                      3
           monitoring capacity

 42        MOYITORINGTARGET.Boardof                       o w e        9 7 S S 1 6 W l
           Trusteesappointedandoperating

 43        MOYITORINGTARGET Legal                         o w u        I,SS*BI*XS
           instruments,operationalmanual and
           procedureiapprocedandappraisal
 44        MOWTORIYGTARGET TwenQ                          O W k      10ss-120wkr
           demonstrationprojectsunder
           Implementation
 45        CTF Endowment                            i s s a w * s



 46             Endowment fund establishment             2 6 W        4455 1 3 ~ x 1



 47             Endowment fund capitalization       1568wxI           46SS113whr




 48             Endowment management and            1695wka           47SSl3wir
                monitoring activities

 49             \IOYlTORIYGTARGET GEF                     O    W      47SS*13wkr
                endowmentfundsm place

 50             \IONITORINGT~RGET~Additlonnl              0 *is      49SS*l41 Whf
                donorendowmentfunds m place




                                                                                       - 106 -

                                                                                 -a
 ID TaskName                                       Duration       Predecessors Q
 51 SUST-\IY~LEFOREST~lAYAGE\IEYT                      191wX.                    0


 52    Impro\edForestOperatlons, Inrpectron,snd     r ) 7 1 * * s                0
       \lo",torl"g

 53         Reviewof FMAs forestpermns forest       1%6*s               35SL4*6   I
           operations and monitoring systems

           Actions to establish more efficient      2W6v.b            63SS191 wkr

   I        monitoring system and its
            implementation
 55         Performance bond destgn and approval

   I
 56         lmprovej sanctioning capability by

   I                                                             1
           GoPNG induding performance bond
           application
 57         Implement sanctions and performance     2328n*S
           bond

            Review and approval of new system far        67*                 515s c
           forest charges

 59        Implementation of new forestcharges      2328*                   U S 5
           system
1
I                                                                              -
           MONITORIVGTARGGT Fifteenforest                 0 wls                15
 6o        operationsre\~wed

 61         \IOVITORINGTARGET New forest                  O * c r              15
            revenuesystems approved

 62        ~IOhITORINGTARGETUpgrsded                      OwXr       595511C4irk
           inspectlonandmonitoring pracedurerm
           30%of forest opcrstions
 63        MONITORINGTARGET Yewmeentires                  0 *cr                82
           andloggingcodesapproved


I          #ONITORIYGTARG~Upgraded                        O     W
 64        Inspectionandmonitoringproceduresm
           SO%of forest operations
 65    ForestPlnnning                                  188vk.                    0


 66        Strengthening environmental GIs             1cdirXs          35s14whS e
           capacityin DEC

 67         Improve protocols and NFScapability to                           6655 =
           use environmental GISdata

 68        Envirmmental GISdata integration in      2758**s          665S*22rka
           forestryplanning

 69        Establish guidelines forconservation         62*          56S5*13 wka
           set asides

 70        Recalculatun ofMCand cming cycles        1 5 6 8 * b             69%



 71        Research into forest management and      2e48*s                  695.3
           silviculture

 72        Strenutheninq NFS forest manaqement        285   *               69%
           planning and upgrading nationai
           provincial and project plans
           Review and improw FMAdocument




           operptionsicapabllrt)m DEC andm FS

           %IONITORINGTARGETApprorecF\lA
           b) ForestrvBoard




                                                                                   -107-

 '                                                                                  -                           2004
   ID TarkName                                       IDuratlon     1 Predecessors    Q:    2 Q3 Q4 Q1 QZ Q3 Q,q?$zqE
            #O~VITORIYGTARGET:New FMA                       0-           75ss+65*
             appliedto sll new proposals                                                  'T
 177         MOYITORIVGTARGET VewiWC and                    O   W        73FSi5uhr
             sihieultural prescriptions appliedm aU
            new operations
  78        MOVITORIYGTARGET NewMC and                      0 w b
            rilvreultural prescriptions appliedIall
            operstrons
  79     PortHsnestForest\Ianagementand                297 8 wk.
         Plantations

  80         Review regeneration trials to date and    2 9 7 6 M          3sSi4n*5
            establish further trials

  81        Refine and dissemnate natural              2828 **I          8055131 nnr
            regeneration treatment presuiptions

  82        Agreements training and                    262 8uhr          8055131&a

I            mplementation of regeneration pilots

  83        Expansion of regeneration program          1 3 0 8 M S      8255*130*Ics
            beyond pilots
I           Establish and staff plantation                 5 2 M         3FS-12M

  84        investment promtion unit

  85        Plantation development strategy paper          65*          84SS-25 *IxI
            completed

  88        Plantations rehabilitation and             2298 Wxs         65SS135 *XI;
            establishment of demonstrations

  87        Development of plantation promtion           'm   *          88Ss*x *xr
            prospectus and investor solicitation

            hlOYITORIVGTARGET Regeneration                  O    M       87SS-9wb
            regulationr and guidelines developed
~


  89        \IOVITORIVGTARGET Plantation                    0 W b              885s
            strateg) study andsite identifieahon
            completed
  90        hlOYITORIVGTARGET.Fes~b~~N                      O    M      88SSL61*
            stud) sndprospeetuscompleted

                                                                                          -,
  91        \IOYITORIVGTARGET Regeneration                  Q*
            regulations andguldcllnes appliedto all
            forest operations
' 92 EVVIROYMEVTAMSSESSMEVT AYD                          332wks                      I
     1                                                                                             I
      MOYITORIYG
                                                                                            .. I
                                                                                               ,     I . '
  93     EnYirOnmDntalAssessment, Monitoringand        301 )wk.                                      I
         Regulation                                                                       -I         II
                                                                                          -
  94        Complete and enact regulations under                                                   ..   ,..I.
                                                           52wb                  35s                 ,I
                                                                                                     ( .
                                                                                                   .II

I           Environment Bill
                                                                                                     4   . '
~           m;Zyand   finalize forestryenvironmental      65rir                  3SSI
                                                                                               I

            Deliver awareness training on              2094wkr          95SS11wX1              El
            environmental regularitow systems
                                                                                                   +-
                                                                                               I

     I      Design new permits system and build         e54wh3                 965s            L
            permits database                                                        I                I
  98        Review options, draft and approve                                              ^ "


                                                                                               I
            regulations to implement users fees                                                            '

  99        Develop and implement accounting and
            management system for fee collection

  100       Develop criteria and approach for
            review of existing forestryprcyects
            permits system




                                                                                       -108   -

-601-




    --

                                                   Additional
                                                    Annex 17

                                    SupervisionPlanto Mid-term Review
As notedunder item5 of C.ProjectDescriptionStudy, inthe maintext ofthis document, the Quality
Enhancement Review, carried out for this project inFebruary 2000, strongly recommended that, giventhe
highriskenvironment inwhich this project is to be implemented,it requires:

         I'..intensive supervision, beyond that requiredfor conventional investment operations,
         particularly during thefirst threeyears of theproject implementation period. ''

The QER recommended that a specific annex be appendedto the Project Appraisal Document, detailing
specific milestones, priority areas for supervision, a supervision plan, and proposals for the use o f trust
funds and cooperative arrangementswith other donors to implement enhancedsupervision. It further
recommended that some specific mentionneeds to be made o f the resourcesthat the project will provide to
enhanceenvironmental assessment and monitoring and evaluation inthis area. It also proposed that the
Bankneeds to go beyondconventional Bank practice, by defininganexit strategy with trigger points and
indicators specified for this project, inview o f the highrisks associatedwith its implementation.
The table below outlines a planto monitor the project up to the point where amidterm reviewwill be
carried out. Inthis case, the MTR will be donejust prior to the time when the major hnding component o f
the GEF, to establish the endowment phaseo fthe Conservation Trust Fund, will be due. This is also
about the time when most components o f the project have completedinitial legal and regulatory reforms,
staffing and training, and also extension and training for recipients o f project outputs (primarily
landowners involvedinthe formation o f new landowner units), and shouldbe ready to proceed to scaling
upof field implementationof all project components. Itthus representsa convenient point at which to
apply the exit strategy recommended by the QER. The design outline for the MTRitselfi s intendedto
provide not only a broad assessment o f how well the project is progressing, but also to inform a decision
bythe Bankandthe Government onwhether to proceedwiththe project.
This decision will be basedon three critical performance indicators:


1.     Any evidence of significant financial or procurement mismanagement inthe project;
2.     Any failure to implement a major project component element, or to implement it at an unacceptable
       level o f performance.
3.     Failure to comply with loan covenants.
The reasona decision to close the project would be taken ifeither of these manifest is implied inthe highly
integrated and interdependent nature o f this project, as described at various places inthe main text o f this
document. A major failure inany component would compromise the performance and sustainability o f the
project as a whole, and would therefore be unacceptable. This i s not to suggestthat the MTR might not
suggestmajor restructuringo fthe project ifthis isjudged as beingneededat the time: but there is a
qualitative difference between the conditions under which that judgement would be made (for example, it
may well eventuate becausecircumstances inthe sector have altered in unanticipated ways during the
course o f the project) and the fundamental problems o f commitment andaccountability that would
underlie a decision to terminate the project.
The costs ofthe supervision process outlined here will be high: far higherthan is the norm for Bank
projects. Total cost o f supervision for the first 30 months after effectiveness as estimated at $325,000
andinvolve 45 weeks o f staff and consultants' time. At the time ofwriting o fthis document, a global



                                                      - 110-

reviewo fthe Bank's performance inthe forests sector since issue of the Bank policy on forestry was in
progress, andthe review o f implementationo f the policy by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department
had already concluded that one o f the major reasons for the poor performance o f Bank forest projects was
the lack of effective supervision ofimplementation. Another conclusion which was beginningto emerge
from the policy andimplementationreview processwas that Bank interventions inthe forests sector were
likely to become more complex and less reliant on individual, stand-alone field investments, andthe strong
implication i s that these newer forms o f intervention will require more analysis o f the ESW type to
formulate effectively, andthen more monitoring andsupervision under implementation. The benefit likely
to be achieved, however, i s that Bank forest interventions will become muchbetter designed, better
integrated with other activities o f the Bank and other donors and stakeholders, andmore effective
especially indeliveryo fthe Bank's overriding goals o fpoverty alleviation and sustainable development.
This PapuaNew Guinea project has many ofthe features which will be recommended for the Bank's new
approach inthe sector, andmay therefore be seen as a precursor o f others that may soon follow for
presentation to the Board.
An effort will bemade to obtain external support for the supervision andmonitoring effort neededfor this
project, in two ways:


1.    A searchfor trust fund and other sources of support which would cover the costs o f consultants,
      workshops andother expenses will be made when the project is approved for implementation. An
      approach to the UNDP will be made inthis regard;
2.    The task team will seek out opportunities to combine supervision and monitoring activities for this
      project with thoise for programs and projects being implemented by others in PNG. The Australian
      aid agency, and the European Union are preparing major interventions inthe sector, andhave
       coordinated so far with the Bank in this. There may even be opportunities for joint supervision o f
      these activities by all agencies involved, which would leadto cost savings andefficiencies: the
      Australian agency has expressedsome interest inthis idea already.




                                                     - 111 -

   Supervision         Monitorables/Focusof Mission              Expertise      Duration     EstimatedCost
     Mission                                                     Required                   (staff/consultant
                                                                                           time & travel etc)
 1. Effectiveness Project Management:                       - TTLiforest        3 weeks  - fares, subsistence
      review      - P M U &POC operating;                     policy and                    etc: $15 000
 (3 months after                                              economic                   - staff/ consutants'
  effectiveness)  -- first A W P and budget prepared;
                      financial management system,            specialist;                   time: $23 000
                      hardware, manuals etc inplace;        - financial mgt and 1week
                  - bids, contract for initial goods          procurement
                      purchase completed.                     specialist;       1week
                  LDOU:                                     - forest
                  --- LDOUstaff employed;                     management
                     initial TA in place;                     specialist
                     DOS strategy paper done and
                      training for D O S under way.
                  Conservation TrustFund:
                  - CTF staffing complete and training
                      under way.
                  Sustainable Forest Management:
                  - review o f FMA and operational
                      processes initiated;
                  -- forest revenue study initiated;
                      regeneration systems assessed.
                  Environment Assess & Monitoring:
                  -- monitoringiassessment system
                     legal and policy reviews initiated;

                      designed.

2. Early          Project M a nagement:                       TTL;              2 weeks  - fares, subsistence
implementation    - Project management and                  --landowner         1week       etc: $15,000
review                coordination operationally              specialist;                - stafficonsultants'
(6 months after       effective;                            - finanical         1week       time: $20,000
effectiveness)    - project monitoring and reporting in       management and
                      place;                                  procurement
                  - procurement and TA recruitment            specialist
                      satisfactory;
                  - financial management and
                      accounting satisfactory.
                  LDOU:
                  -- DILGSlegislation
                        O related activities underway;
                                       review initiated;
                  - strengthening GIS capacity inOEC
                      underway.
                  Sustainable Forest Management:
                  - establishment o fplantation
                      investment and promotion unit
                      initiated.




                                                      - 112-

                                                   Additional
                                                    Annex 18

                                        Public Participation Summary

Participatory Approach The Forestry and Conservation Project by its nature will be heavily reliant upon
participationby landowners, civil society groups (especially the various church groups, which are highly
involved and influential in PNG) and NGOs, andprogressive elements inthe forest industry sector. It i s
expected that the project will set intrain a long term set o f changes inthe means by which stakeholder
groups become involvedinthe use and management o f forests: inone component        -  the Conservation Trust
Fund-longevity is actuallymandated inthe designofthe financing arrangements,which will guarantee
that this non-govemment facility will be capable of supporting landowner activities within its terms o f
reference into perpetuity.
For these reasons, the preparation phase o f the project has reliedheavily on participationby stakeholders
- especially those inthe civil society grouping -inthe formulation o fbasic objectives anddesign o f the
project. The implementationphase o fthe project has very specific measuresincorporated(especially
within the Landowner Decision Makingcomponent) to bringbroad groups of stakeholders into the
implementation management andplanningprocess: for example, a number o fregional workshops, leading
to a national level conference on landowner representation and decision-making issues i s programmedinto
the implementationschedule for the project.

ConsultativeProcess During Preparation.


0   General project development consultations within PNG. Meetings and discussions on the broad
    objectives o f the project, and the options for its implementation were heldwith a large number o fNGO
    groups, landowners representatives, church groups, women's organization and other elements incivil
     society during the preparation o f this project -many o f them inmultiple meetings especially
    throughout 1998 and 1999.Inaddition to consultations organized andattended by members o f the bank
    project team, both the PNG Country Director, and the Regional Vice President for East Asia and the
    Pacific have had meetingswith NGO groups on the project inPNG. Networks established during the
    operation o f the Bank supported Targeted Community Development Programwere utilized, to broaden
    the focus of groups involvedbeyondthose conventionally associatedwith forest issues. Attachment 1
    to this annex provides examples o f this process, documenting four meetingsheldinNovember 1998:
    three with NGO and civil society groupings (inPort Moresby, Lae and Madang), and one with forest
    industryrepresentatives. Inaddition to such larger meetings -o fwhich there were about ten duringthe
    course o f project preparation - the project team met withmany more stakeholders on an individual and
    small group basis: many participants inthese smaller encounters were groups who had beenat the
    larger meetings, andwere following up on more specific issues andconcerns. Correspondence anda
    continuous dialogue with some o f these groups ensued, andcontinues to the present.

0   Specific designconsultations. Attachment 2 to this annex lists the titles of some o fthe working
    papers prepared for the project which dealt specifically with landowner participation issues. These
    papers were prepared by experts with long experience inlandowner affairs in PNG- the major papers
    among these were authored by a PapuaNew Guinea citizen. Heavy reliance was placed on field visits
    and discussion with landowners inthe preparationo f these papers.

0   The ConservationTrust Fundpreparation. The Bank contracted The Nature Conservancy, an
    international environmental NGO with extensive experience inthe design andmanagement o f



                                                      - 113 -

     conservation trust funds to design the CTF inPNG, andto manage the process o f early establishment
     so that it would be ready to beginutilizing GEF grant funds allocated under the project for project
     work with landowners. The terms o f reference for TNC requiredmajor consultationwith a broad
     group o f stakeholders throughout the preparationprocess, and TNC has achieved this through
     working with a core group o f national NGOs inPNG, and utilizing their networks to develop ideas
     and receive feedback on the nature, management and operation o f the Fund. This consultation process
     i s documented inthe progress reports provided by TNC throughout the preparation. As a result, the
     CTF now has an initial Board, comprisedprimarily ofNGO andother civil society representatives,
     andits deed, constitutionand operational manual have beenwritten, approved and disseminated
     widely inPNG.

0    ProjectConsultationsOutsidePNG.A number ofbriefingsandgroup consultations with
     international and regional NGO groups have beenheld throughout the preparation process with these
     groups. GreenpeaceInternational, WWF, The Nature Conservancy, Conservation international,
     World resources Institute and others have met with the project team, and the PNG Country Director,
     on several occasions inWashington. There have beenmeetings on the project with these andother
     groups at regional level (including Australian andNew Zealand NGOs) inAustralia and New
     Zealand, attended by project team members, andthe PNG Country Director.
Disclosure WithinPNG. Duringthe consultations and discussions outlined above, the project team
utilized a detailed summary of the project design andcomponents, and, with the agreement o f GOPNG,
distributed this widely to all groups. The environmental review was also usedanddistributed inthe same
way, when it became available in 1999.

Transparency and Consultative Process During Implementation. At the national level, the project
Oversight Committee will have NGO representation on it. As a result ofprevious and current
requirements o f the Bank implementedunder structural adjustment operations inPNG, the PNG Forestry
Boardnow has NGO representation on it, and will soon be governed by regulations requiring the Boardto
disclose all deliberations of the Boardrelating to allocation o f forest resources, so that civil society
groupings will have timely access to this material. Inaddition, the Forestry Boardwill soon replace the
forest industry representative on that board with a representative from the broader PNGprivate sector    -
either the Chamber o f Commerce, or the Business Council: the intention beingto expose a wider grouping
o f the private sector to forest sector issues, and to draw more interest from responsible members o f that
community in sustainable forest investment.

Withinthe project, there will be support for participation o f landowners andcivil society groupings
representingtheir interests inall components o fthe project:
0    extension, workshops and consultations will be supported on the central issue o f landowner
     organization and representation inthe resource use decision making area, within the Landowner
     Forest Decision-Making component -infact, these are a central element o f the strategy o f
     implementationo f that component;
0    the Conservation Trust Fundcomponent, as will be evident from the above andmore detailed
     description o f it elsewhere inthe document, is entirelybased incivil society management, andhas
     major provisions for constant consultation and interactionwith landowners and others inall aspects o f
     its activities;
0    landowners and their representatives will participate increasingly inthe management and monitoring
     o f ongoing andnew forest operations in PNG, both through specific measures designed to include
     them inthese processesintroducedinthe Sustainable Forest Management component, and also as
     measuresimprovingtheir capacity to negotiate with industry and govemment agencies through the


                                                       -114-

     Landowner Forest Decision-Making component come into effect.
0    specific support is provided for engagement o f landowners inenvironmental monitoring, under the
     Environmental Assessment andMonitoring component;

Project Monitoring and Evaluation. As can be seen from Annex 1to this project appraisal document,
there a number of specific participation outcomes includedfor evaluation as key performance indicators in
this project: delivery oftraining on the development Option Study methodology to landowner
representatives; preparation and submission o f legislation to simplify and strengthen the process o f
incorporation o f landowner representative groups; achievement of effectively representative landowner
organization in20% of major forest resource project areas by midterm review, and *0% by project close;
a range o f specific targets relating to implementation o f CTF financed landowner projects by midterm
andproject close; increasedinvolvement oflandowners inthe Forest Management Agreement negotiation
process; andachievement o f at least 20 pilot community managed environmental assessment programs.

Attachment I

        EXAMPLES OF PAPUANEW GUINEA CONSULTATIONS ONWORLD BANK
                                FOREST & CONSERVATIONPROJECT
                                          (FROMNOVEMBER 1998)




1. PortMoresby and Other NGOs

Date:              11111198
Venue:            World Bank Office, Islander Hotel, Port Moresby
ChairedBy:        The World Bank
                 Jim Douglas, Task Manager
                 Anita Gordon, NGO Liaison
                 GlennBarry, Consultant

TheMeeting:         This was a spiritedgathering of a numberofPort Moresbybased andNGOs from other
parts of the country including Manus and Morobe provinces, many o f whom had participated inprevious
rounds o f consultation on the forest project. The discussion dealt with some o f the issues underlyingthe
vulnerability o f forests inPNGincludingpopulation, agriculture.

They then talked at length about the possibilities for more sustainable forest use and alternative
livelihoods that the project could help deliver. This included downstream processing that they could
imagine coming out o f the World Bank Forest and Conservation Project. Several people had examples o f
where this is already happening inPNG, i.e. the start up of local industries like furniture making; that
there is realpotential for this kindof industry; there i s already experience through TCDP, The Targeted
Community Development Program o fpeople inMilneBay makingboats. It was suggestedthat the
Conservation Trust Fundwould be the ideal vehicle for opportunities for small scale operations. Start up
capital could also be obtained through IFC which funds small scale operations. Other participants saw
the possibility o f marketing PNG eco-labeled timber in the West; Church representatives saw the real
possibility o f spreading the sustainability message through the pulpit- a Church lesson in"real
stewardship".

Other IssuesRaisedon the Project:


                                                     - 115-

        Small Scale Logging-that this notbe stressed as an answer to large scale logging as it could be
        just as destructive.

..      MoratoriumonLogging- that this is needed ifthe project is to work.
        Options they should be thepriority; people shouldknow what options are available.
                  -
        The Needfor CapacityBuilding that this would be a critical element inthe success ofthe
                                            -
        project.


2. Forest Industries:

Date:               11/10/98
Venue:              PNGForest Authority Boardroom
Chair:             Thomas Nen, PNG Forest Authority
World Bank: Jim Douglas, Task Manager
                   Anita Gordon, NGO Liaison
                   Paul Ryan, Consultant

The Meeting:        This was an opportunity to meet with representatives o fthe Forest Industry Association
(FIA) and anumber ofother industrypeople, as well as a number ofothers involvedinforest projects,
and forest research inPNG. Jim Douglas explainedthe Bank's involvement inthe forest issue, and said
that interms o f the Bank's Forest andConservation Project, he would be looking to work with industry on
this, to get their support. Hemade it clear that the forest program was lookingto the future, a future in
which forests would play a much different role than now. He cited carbon offset as an example, saying
that ifit were to happen, it would revolutionize forest use and forest economy.

The FIA presentedhighlights from a paper -"Draft Comments on the World BankForestry and
ConservationProject", which was as much a litany o f complaints about what the FIA considers the
Bank's pressure on them as a critique o f the Project. The FIA representative raised a number o f concems
including: that the move to "independent audit" meant sidelining the NFB and NFS; that the project
summary maligns industry by suggesting it doesn't play ball. (Jim Douglas said he would remove that
reference inthe document); that although small scale use and forest development i s fine, would it be
sustainable once the original finds runout; although log export accounts for the bulk o f forest activity,
shouldn't ignore growing processing sector, and industry investment inreforestation; that Bank's moves
(VAT andprocessing tax) adversely affected any future growth inthose sectors. One participant said that
the forest industry has taken a lot out o f PNG andhasn't put a lot back in; and also pointed out when
TNC wanted to join the FIA, the organization refused them membership. The World Bank team reiterated
that it very much wanted industryto be on board vis-a-vis the Project.

Other Issues RaisedontheProject:

         Role of NGOs need more detailon how NGOs would be involved; should be a review o fNGO
                           -
         capacity and the ability to buildcapacity; a problem that few conservation NGOs left inPNG.
         The Needto Builda Climate of Trust in PNG.The project document doesn't tell how this is
         going to happen.
         The DevelopmentOptions Study is the most important element o fthe project; ifcarbon offset
         becomes a reality, this would be really big; would like to see the development options study
         enlarged and emphasizedmore.
         ILG's (IncorporatedLandGroups) Problemwill be identifyinglegitimate ones; also may not
                                                 -


                                                    - 116-

          make sense to work with small groups, small ILG's; should work with larger groupings.


3. MorobeProvinceNGOs and Other Groups

Date:              11/12/98
Venue:             Lae IntemationalHotel, Lae, Morobe Province
Chair:             Village Development Trust - VDT
World Bank: Anita Gordon, NGOLiaison
                  Paul Ryan, Consultant
TNC:              Wep Kanawi, PNG Coordinator


The Meeting:        Lae has the strongest and most active focal point o f civil society inPapua New Guinea.
The Morobe Kibungis made up o frepresentatives o funiversities andschools, NGOs, business leaders,
women's groups, community council leaders, professionals, service clubs and others. After introductions,
the Bank team described why the Bank got involvedwith the program -the Bank's mandate for poverty
reduction, natural resource management; inPNGthe World Bank had always worked at the macro level
on forest issues; there was now understanding that change must also happen at the local level as well ifit
i s to be effective. Wep Kanawi o f The Nature Conservancy described the Conservation Trust Fundin
piginand with descriptive drawings and diagrams.

The greatest concem that emergedfrom the gathering was that the entire Bank project with the trust fund,
not become another "cargo" grab; that people would get something for nothingwithout stringent criteria
attached; that it would simply become a free-for-all. Both Bank andTNC made clear that this would not
be the case. Ths was not going to move faster than it was able to cope; that there would be strong criteria
for access to the trust fund; but on the other hand it wouldn't be so difficult that it would runthe risk o f
becoming paralyzed.

A numbero f questions were raised about the government fundedpoverty alleviationprogram, the
Targeted Community Development Program (TCDP) and how it could interact with the Bank Forest and
Conservation Project. It was decided by the Bank team after this meetingto invite Jean Kekeo, the
consultant heading the TCDP to attend the next consultationmeetinginMadang.

Other IssuesRaisedonthe Project:
          Independenceofthe Trust Fund-concem that the trust fundbe independent o f government
          control.
          Tranparency- that criteria beclear to those NGOs and community groups working withthe
          project so that they don't mislead their constituents.
          Capacity-that before any money goes to anyone capacity be enhancedto deal with such
          projects.
          Lack of ConservationEthic inPNG-the needfor environmental education inschools to make
          something like the Bank project work.


4. MadangProvinceNGOs and Others.

Date:                11/16/98



                                                     - 117-

Venue:              Madang Resort Hotel
Chair:              Ivan Mullel,Madang Provincial Government
World Bank:        Anita Gordon, NGO Liaision
                   GlennBarry, Consultant
TNC:               Wep Kanawi, PNG Coordinator
TCDP:              Jean Kekedo, Consultant

The Meeting:       The meetingwas organized with the assistanceo f IvanMullel ofthe Madang provincial
government. This i s an area that has seen some o f the worst forest degradation in PapuaNew Guinea, so
there was keen interest ina program which offered altematives for livelihoodthat were altematives to
losing their forests. Numberingalmost 60 people, the group was made up o f a broadrange o f government
representatives (mainly forestry andcommunity workers), NGOs, community council presidents, women's
groups, andother members of civil society including people who described themselves as "grassroots".
Afterpeople introducedthemselves, Bankrepresentatives described the project andWep Kanawio fTNC
described the Trust Fund, how it would work and how it fit into the greater project context.

As inthe previous consultative meetings inPort Moresby andLae, there was greater interest in the Trust
Fundand how it would work than inthe rest ofthe Bank project. The majority of the questions centered
on the Trust Fund-how it would operate; who would be eligible; would it be free o f government
interference; how easy would it be to understandthe rules o f the game. They made it clear that they
simplywantedto improve their lives; that they hadheardenough talkingover months and years on
"awareness" andwanted to see the cold hardcash that they could use to improve their quality o f life.
They specifically wanted to know how soon they would see this project happen. There were a number o f
technical questions interms of asset/fund management, operations manual, shareholding, government
policies linkingthe CTF programs to priority needs etc.

Provincial forestry officials were not entirely sure how the overall project was going to affect or improve
their capacity to performtheir duties on the ground. Great care was taken to explain the design and
operation o f the project and CTF in pigin, using illustrative drawings and diagrams.

Other IssuesRaisedon the Project:

         The Needto ImproveLives       -  There was a desire to see this as a vehicle to improve the lives in
         rural communities rather than structural or other improvements.
         A Voice on the Board-Participants stressed the need for a strong community development and
         awareness voice on the Board o f the CTF.
         PotentialConflict ofInterestof BoardMembers The issue ofpossible conflict o finterest in
                                                              -
         Boardmembers being associatedwith NGOs which would seek fundingfrom the CTF was raised
         by quite a few people. The recordwas set straight on this and it appearsto have beenaccepted.
         PossibleGovernmentInterference-How would themoney inthe Trust Fundbe protected so it
         wasn't grabbed by government.
         The Needfor SimpleLanguage-Any application andcriteria and descriptions shouldbe in
         simpleEnglishor pigin.
         Incorporated LandGroups (ILGs) That Aren't Authentic -What canbe done? this theme ran
         through all the meetings held.




                                                     - 118-

Attachment 2


      PROJECTWORKING PAPERS INVOLVINGMAJOR CONSULTATION WITH
                      LANDOWNERSAND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS


1. SOME ISSUES OF LAW AND POLICYRELATINGTO LANDOWNER ORGANISATION
AND REPRESENTATIONMECHANISMS
Kathy Whimp,Legal Consultant, September 1998

2. LANDOWNER FORESTDECISION-MAKING COMPONENT REPORT
Hartmut Holzknecht, Landowner Specialist, 1998

3. WORKING PLANSON CLAN BASEDPARTICIPATION, CONSERVATION AND
LANDOWNER GROUPS
Hartmut Holzknecht, Landowner Specialist, 1999




                                             -119-


MAP SECTION


