                          PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                  NEGOTIATION STAGE

                                                                           Report No.: AB7161
 Operation Name                   Financial Sector and Investment Climate Reform and Modernization
                                  Development Policy Loan (INDONESIA FIRM-DPL)
 Region                           EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Sector                           Financial Sector, Poverty Reduction.
 Project ID                       P130150
 Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
 Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND CMEA
 Date PID Prepared                September 7, 2012
 Estimated Date of                September 20, 2012
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board          November 20, 2012
 Approval

I. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The proposed Indonesia Financial Sector and Investment Climate Reform and Modernization
Program (FIRM), in the form of a USD 100 million single tranche IBRD variable spread loan, is
designed to support the Government of Indonesia in its ongoing efforts to promote the development
of its financial sector and accelerate investment for accelerated economic expansion and poverty
reduction. Indonesia has proven itself as a major developing economy, making efforts over the last
decades to develop strong macroeconomic fundamentals and a robust financial sector. Indonesia’s
economy demonstrated this resilience through the recent volatility in financial markets and a slowdown in
growth in the developed countries, culminating in positive growth of above 6 percent in 2010 and 2011.
Moving forward, the Government of Indonesia is committed to turn Indonesia’s economy into one of the
world’s top ten largest by 2025. A strong financial system that accelerates and supports private sector
growth is thus vital to Indonesia’s continued competitiveness and the Bank and other development
partners support these efforts.

Indonesian authorities have already taken several positive steps in order to enable the financial
sector to provide the kinds of products and services that can cater to the demands of the vast
majority of Indonesia’s population and its real sector at competitive prices, as well as accelerating
investment for growth. These reforms have been taken in financial system stability, financial sector
diversification, financial inclusion and investment climate regulatory reform. Specifically, the
government has been working to create a robust financial sector safety net to improve both crisis
prevention and management. Further, in an effort to gradually reduce the dominance of the banking
sector, the MOF issued a Capital Markets and Non Banking Financial Sector Master Plan 2010-2014,
which provides a working guideline for financial sector diversification. Additionally, the GOI has
recently launched a number of efforts to increase access to a broad array of financial services to the poor
and underserved, including preparation of a National Strategy for financial Inclusion for implementation
in the medium term and scaling up its flagship People’s Business Credit program as a way to expand
access to credit.

The FIRM Program is intended to complement the ongoing Indonesia DPL series, which supports a
core reform program in the economic ministries. In accordance with the FY09-FY12 CPS, the DPL
series has been at the center of WBG support in strengthening Indonesia’s central government institutions
and systems, a key cross-sectoral engagement theme under the CPS. The latest installment of the series
was DPL-8, a USD 400 million loan, approved by the Board on November 22, 2011. In light of the
Government’s deepening engagements with the Bank on several priority areas, it requested a series of
thematic DPLs in 2012, rather than a single, multi-sectoral operation in order to most effectively align the
program with its medium term development plan. Additionally, the FIRM program builds directly on the
                                                                                                          1
USD 2 billion PERISAI DPL-DDO (approved May 2012) with its focus on enhancing financial crisis
preparedness. The FIRM Program focuses on enhancing institutional and structural reforms specific to the
financial and private sector.

II. Proposed Objective(s)

The main objective of the proposed loan is to assist the Government in promoting the development of a
sound, efficient and inclusive financial sector and accelerate investment in order to achieve its economic
expansion and poverty reduction goals. To date the government’s focus on maintaining and strengthening
the stability of the financial system of the last decade has had demonstrable success. In 2011 Indonesia’s
financial sector has only suffered relatively minor affects from the ongoing Eurozone crisis and financial
market volatility.

Despite this stability, however, Indonesia’s financial sector requires continued deepening, widening,
and efficiency, in order to remain supportive of competitiveness and growth goals. Today
Indonesia’s financial sector remains bank-dominated, and as such, financing is dominated by short-
maturity financial instruments, typically time deposits. The amount of long-term financing needed by
corporations, infrastructure and SMEs remains very limited acting as a drag on growth. In addition, much
of the population does not have access to appropriate financial products and services1. MSMEs are
important for Indonesia, as they contributed to 60 percent of GDP and provided 97 percent of total
employment in 2010, and to grow further they need adequate access to finance.

The policy package is thus expected to cover the following priority areas:

           (i)      reinforcing financial sector stability,

           (ii)     promoting financial sector diversification,

           (iii)    enhancing financial inclusion for underserved groups and the poor, and

           (iv)     supporting investment climate regulatory reform.

III. Preliminary Description

In financial sector stability, the FIRM DPL will focus on supporting the establishment of an effective
financial sector regulatory and supervisory framework, enhancing crisis preparedness and strengthening
the deposit insurance system to enhance confidence in the sector.

In financial sector diversification, the FIRM DPL focuses on a set of priority actions to address
strengthen non-bank financial institution development, including the need to improve the corporate
governance and transparency of Indonesia’s capital markets and improve the overall soundness of the
insurance industry.

In financial inclusion, promoting policy coordination and developing innovative financial products are
the primary focus. The Government has launched major initiatives on a number of fronts to promote
financial inclusion, including the development of the first National Strategy for Financial Inclusion and
the FIRM will support this effort.

Regards promoting investment climate regulatory reform, the FIRM DPL will concentrate on
supporting GoI reforms related to policy coordination for regulatory reform and contract enforcement.

IV. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


1
    Less than 50% population has access to formal financial services
                                                                                                        2
The proposed policy actions under this operation are expected to have positive poverty and social
impacts and to have no significant negative environmental effects. Specifically, the operation
promotes overall financial sector stability by improving the authorities’ ability to prevent and handle
financial crisis. Indonesia’s experience during the Asian Financial crisis in 1997/1998 took a huge toll on
the poor and vulnerable, massively increasing the poverty rate and reducing jobs. The GOI has made
important strides since that time in establishing financial sector stability, and the FIRM DPL aims to
further bolster these efforts. The focus of the operation also on promoting financial inclusion and
diversification is expected to have positive poverty and social impacts, increasing employment
opportunities, income and enhancing social protection through savings and other financing products
targeting the poor. Without inclusive financial systems, poor individuals and small enterprises need to
rely on their personal wealth or internal resources to invest in their education, become entrepreneurs or
take advantage of promising growing opportunities. The investment climate reforms are also expected to
help create equal opportunities for businesses and improve the overall ease of doing business, thereby
promoting job creation and inclusive growth.

V. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                              ($m.)
Borrower                                                                             0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                100
         Total                                                                       100

VI.      Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Alexandra Drees-Gross
Title: Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Tel: 62-21-5299 3129
Fax: 62-21-5299-3111
Email: agross@worldbank.org
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Ayu Sukorini
Title: Director of Loan and Grant
Tel: 62-21-345-9616
Email: ayu_sukorini@dmo.or.id


VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                                                                         3
