                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003179



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-82060)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF USD100 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                      FOR A

      FINANCIAL SECTOR AND INVESTMENT CLIMATE REFORM AND
         MODERNIZATION (FIRM) DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                   June 25, 2014




Financial and Private Sector Development Department
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2014)

           Currency Unit = Rupiah (IDR)
             USD1.00 = IDR 11,823

                 FISCAL YEAR
             January 1 – December 31




Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenberg
Country Director:          Rodrigo Chaves
Sector Manager:            Hormoz Aghdaey
Task Team Leader:          Carlos Pinerua
ICR Team Leader            Dara Lengkong




                                                  i
                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA        Analytical and Advisory       IMF        International Monetary Fund
           Activities
ADB        Asian Development Bank        INSTANSI   Institutional, Tax Administration,
                                         DPL        Social and Investment
                                                    Development Policy Loan
AusAID     Australian Agency for         KUR        People’s Business Credit Program
           International Development
           (now Department of Foreign
           Affairs and Trade, DFAT)
Bapepam-   Indonesia Capital Market      LPS        Indonesia Deposit Insurance
LK         and Financial Institutions               Corporation
           Supervisory Agency
Bappenas   National Development          MPFTIC     Multi Partner Facility for Trade
           Planning Agency                          and Investment Climate
BI         Bank Indonesia                MoF        Ministry of Finance
BKPM       Indonesia Investment          MP3EI      Masterplan for Acceleration and
           Coordinating Board                       Expansion of Indonesia’s
                                                    Economic Development
BPR        People’s Credit Bank          MSME       Micro, Small and Medium
                                                    Enterprises
CAR        Capital Adequacy Ratio        M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
CMEA       Coordinating Ministry for     NBFI       Non-Bank Financial Institution
           Economic Affairs
CPSPR      Country Partnership           NPL        Non-Performing Loan
           Strategy Progress Report
DDO        Deferred Drawdown Option      NSFI       National Strategy for Financial
                                                    Inclusion
DPL        Development Policy Loan       OJK        Indonesia Financial Services
                                                    Authority
FIRM DPL   Financial Sector and          PERISAI    Program for Economic Resilience,
           Investment Climate Reform                Investment and Social Assistance
           and Modernization                        in Indonesia
           Development Policy Loan
FKSSK      Financial System Stability    PKH        Assistance for Poor Households
           Coordination Forum
FSAP       Financial Sector Assessment   RPJMN      National Medium-Term
           Program                                  Development Plan
FY         Fiscal Year                   SECO       Swiss State Secretariat for
                                                    Economic Affairs
GDP        Gross Domestic Product        TF         Trust Fund
GoI        Government of Indonesia       TNP2K      National Team for the
                                                    Acceleration of Poverty Reduction
IBRD       International Bank for        UKP4       The Presidential Working Unit for
           Reconstruction and                       Control and Supervision on
           Development                              Development
IDR        Indonesian Rupiah             USD        United States Dollars
IFC        International Finance
           Corporation



                                                                                         ii
                                                         INDONESIA

           FINANCIAL SECTOR AND INVESTMENT CLIMATE REFORM AND
             MODERNIZATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN (FIRM DPL)



                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A.     Basic Information....................................................................................................... iv
B.     Key Dates ................................................................................................................... iv
C.     Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... iv
D.     Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ v
E.     Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
F.     Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v
G.     Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. vii
H.     Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vii


Main Document
1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ................................................ 4
3.     Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6.     Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 20
Annex 2. Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR ................................................................ 22
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 23
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 24




                                                                                                                                     iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                   Financial sector and
                                                                   Investment climate
Country:             Indonesia             Program Name:
                                                                   Reform and
                                                                   Modernization DPL
Program ID:          P130150               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-82060
ICR Date:            06/25/2014            ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: DPL                    Borrower:
                                                                   INDONESIA
Original Total
                      USD 100.00M           Disbursed Amount:      USD 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 100.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
    Process            Date           Process          Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept
                   06/04/2012     Effectiveness:          12/14/2012      12/14/2012
Review:
Appraisal:         09/10/2012     Restructuring(s):
                                  Mid-term
Approval:          11/20/2012
                                  Review:
                                  Closing:                12/31/2013      12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               Moderate
Bank Performance:                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                      Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory  Government:             Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing
                         Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                          Satisfactory
Performance:                           Performance:


                                                                                          iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                      QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                Rating:
     Performance                              (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at                     Quality of
                         No                                None
any time (Yes/No):                      Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                   30                30
Capital markets                                           10                10
General finance sector                                    50                50
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                     10                10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                      5                5
International financial standards and systems              10               10
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                 30               30
Other Financial Sector Development                         15               15
Regulation and competition policy                          40               40

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                 At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:      Axel van Trotsenburg             Pamela Cox
Country Director:    Rodrigo A. Chaves                Stefan G. Koeberle
Sector Manager:      Hormoz Aghdaey                   Hormoz Aghdaey
Program Team Leader: Carlos Pinerua                   Alexandra L. Drees-Gross
ICR Team Leader:     Carlos Pinerua
ICR Primary Author: Dara Lengkong

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the operation is to promote the development of a sound, efficient and
inclusive financial sector and support improvements in the investment climate in


                                                                                    v
Indonesia to help the Government of Indonesia (GoI) achieve its medium-term economic
development and poverty reduction goals.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original
approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator       Baseline Value
                                             approval         Target      Completion or
                                           documents)         Values       Target Years
                 Capital adequacy ratio (capital over risk weighted assets) of the
Indicator 1 :
                 consolidated balance sheet of the banking sector as a whole.
Value                                   +/-2% of 17.6%
(quantitative or 17.6%                  (17.95%/17.25% N/A               18.13%
Qualitative)                            )
Date achieved 06/30/2011                12/31/2013         12/31/2013 12/31/2013
Comments         Achieved. Banks were well capitalized, with overall CAR at 18.13 % as
(incl. %         of end 2013, significantly higher than regulatory requirements and
achievement) providing the necessary buffer against.
Indicator 2 : Non-performing loans of the banking sector as a whole.
Value
                                        Around 3.8% or
(quantitative or 3.8%                                      N/A           1.77%
                                        less
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2011                12/31/2013         12/31/2013 12/31/2013
Comments         Achieved. Non-performing loans remained reasonably low, at 1.77
(incl. %         percent as of end 2013, the continued decline of which is notable given
achievement) the increased financial market volatility in Indonesia in 2013.
Indicator 3 : Share of NBFI assets to total financial system assets.
Value
(quantitative or 20%                    22%                N/A           24%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2011                12/31/2013         12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments         Achieved. Latest data as of end-2012 indicated achievement of target,
(incl. %         with share of NBFI assets to total financial system of 24 percent. End-
achievement) 2013 data are not yet available.
                 Number of households that have received PKH transfers through bank
Indicator 4 :
                 accounts.
Value
(quantitative or 1.1 million            1.4 million        N/A           N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2011                12/31/2013         12/31/2013 12/31/2013
Comments         Not evaluable/final data are not available. An analysis of the PKH
                                                                                       vi
(incl. %           indicated that bank accounts were the least effective means for PKH
achievement)       transfers. This led the Government to postpone the pilot PKH.
                   Annual disbursement of the KUR program to micro and small
Indicator 5 :
                   enterprises.
Value
(quantitative or   IDR 20 trillion       IDR 25 trillion    N/A            IDR 41 trillion
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011             12/31/2013       12/31/2013 12/31/2013
Comments           Achieved. The performance of KUR program performance was solid,
(incl. %           with total annual disbursement of IDR 41 trillion, reaching about 10
achievement)       million borrowers (almost a double increase since July 2011).
                   Number of days to enforce a contract, according to the Doing Business
Indicator 6 :
                   Report.
Value
(quantitative or   570                   500                N/A            498
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011             12/31/2013        12/31/2013 12/31/2013
Comments           Not achieved. The reduction in number of days to enforce a contract was
(incl. %           entirely due to data adjustments, and not attributed to any underlying
achievement)       reforms within the sector.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target        Formally    Actual Value
                                          Values (from           Revised     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                            approval             Target     Completion or
                                          documents)             Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 : N/A
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                        IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

                                                                                             vii
1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1.   Context at Appraisal

1.1.1. Economic Context

1.      Indonesia has made remarkable progress in terms of robust growth and
macroeconomic stability. During the decade of 2002-11, output growth was strong
and consistent, averaging 5.5 percent, grounded on increasing private sector
investment, strong domestic consumption and generally sustainable external
surpluses. International commodity demand was supportive, leading to a significant
expansion of the non-tradable sectors. External imbalances had declined rapidly as
corporate and financial sector balance sheets were repaired. Higher revenues,
combined with restrained expenditures, contributed to low fiscal deficits.
Nevertheless, financial markets remained vulnerable to changes in international
investor sentiment. Challenges also remained within the fiscal and monetary policy
framework, particularly with regards to managing inflation and dealing with
inefficiencies in key public spending, such as fuel subsidies.

2.      The stability of the financial system has been maintained and
substantially enhanced, although developmental challenges remain. The banking
sector was at the heart of Indonesia’s 1997-98 economic and political crisis, and
turned out to be the costliest bank restructuring program at that point in time globally,
during which well over half of all banking assets and loans were declared as losses.
Since then, the banking sector has been transformed and the Government has focused
on enhancing its stability. Such efforts have paid off substantially, as demonstrated
during the more recent 2008-11 global financial crisis, wherein Indonesia’s financial
sector experienced relatively minor impact from the Eurozone troubles and financial
market volatility. However, the financial sector overall remains small, dominated
primarily by banks, and highly concentrated, whereas the non-bank financial sector is
under-developed. Much remains to be done to enable Indonesia’s financial system to
support the needs of its growing economy, and achieve its poverty reduction and job
creation goals.

3.      At the time that the FIRM DPL was presented to the Board, major
financial sector reforms were underway, as the Government was focused on
creating a more dynamic, inclusive financial sector and competitive investment
climate. The most significant reform was the enactment of the Indonesia Financial
Services Authority Law in October 2011, which established a new integrated financial
regulator (Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or OJK), was the most important change in the
financial sector supervisory and regulatory framework since the 1997-98 financial
crisis. At the same time, the Government also began to focus on a set of second
generation reforms aimed at deepening the financial sector and expanding access of
financial services to the poor, including the development of the first National Strategy
for Financial Inclusion (NSFI).




                                                                                       1
1.1.2. Political Context

4.      While political stability has paved the way for reform-oriented policy-
making in general, concerns have emerged over ad-hoc protectionist tendencies
in some recent policy measures. Following a decade of relatively successful political
and institutional reforms, Indonesia has emerged as a highly competitive and
decentralized electoral democracy. Despite some continuing political tensions, the
administration maintained its coalition structure and consensus-oriented approach
overall. However, concerns over some controversial policy moves, such as the
elimination of foreign majority ownership of mines, the banning of rattan exports to
protect domestic furniture makers, the restriction on imports of horticultural products,
and the tighter rules on establishing retail and restaurant franchises to promote
domestic businesses have emerged. Such policy measures have only intensified in
advance of the 2014 elections and have been viewed widely by the private sector and
many stakeholders as detrimental to Indonesia’s investment climate.


1.1.3. Strategic Context

5.       The 2009-2012 Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (CPSPR)
identified private sector led growth as the first of its five core engagements. This
is a key area supported under the FIRM DPL that aimed to develop a strong financial
system and investment climate that accelerates private sector growth and increases
competitiveness. The FIRM DPL also focused on strengthening Indonesia’s
institutions, a key cross-cutting theme of the CPSPR, by building the capacity of key
institutions to improve financial system stability, deepening the financial sector and
support private sector development through a conducive investment climate. Among
the key institutions involved in its design were the Coordinating Ministry for
Economic Affairs (CMEA), the Ministry of Finance, OJK, Bank Indonesia, the
Indonesia Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS), the National Team for the
Acceleration of Poverty Reduction (TNP2K) and the National Development Planning
Agency (Bappenas).

6.     Following the deployment of single multi-sectoral DPLs since 2003, along
with the DPL DDO contingent budget support facilities, 1 the FIRM DPL
emerged as one of three sectoral DPLs that were requested by the Government
in 2012. While the core DPL program had demonstrated a solid track record in key
reform areas, given the deepening engagements in several priority areas, the
Government requested a series of three sectoral DPLs in 2012: (i) the INSTANSI
DPL that focused on strengthening public financial management and enhancing
poverty alleviation efforts to improve the quality of spending; (ii) the Connectivity
DPL that supported reforms to reduce domestic logistics costs; and (iii) this FIRM
DPL that focused on the financial sector and investment climate. Such a sectoral
approach was envisioned to maximize synergies across the Bank’s program in
Indonesia, further strengthen institutional ownership over the multi-faceted reform
programs and improve the targeting of complementary technical assistance programs.


1 The Public Expenditure Support Facility (PESF) DPL-DDO and the Program for Economic
Resilience, Investment and Social Assistance (PERISAI) DPL-DDO were approved in 2009 and 2012,
respectively.

                                                                                             2
7.     The FIRM DPL was designed as a one-year, stand-alone operation, as
opposed to a multi-year programmatic series, given the transitional period for
the establishment of OJK. The operation was originally intended to be a multi-year,
programmatic series, similar to the INSTANSI and Connectivity DPLs that were
prepared just ahead of the FIRM DPL. However, the Government then requested a
one-year, stand-alone approach, as it did not want to formally commit to a follow-on
operation before OJK had been fully established. However, an outline of a second set
of proposed actions was prepared to lay the groundwork for a potential follow-on
operation. Indeed, this substantially helped shape the follow-on FIRM DPL that was
requested by the Government at the end of 2013.


1.2.       Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
           Approved)

8.      The objective of the FIRM DPL is to promote the development of a
sound, efficient and inclusive financial sector and support improvements in the
investment climate in Indonesia to help the GoI achieve its medium-term
economic development and poverty reduction goals. The Government had
previously articulated its vision to turn Indonesia’s economy into one of the world’s
ten largest by 2025 through the Master Plan for the Acceleration and Expansion of
Indonesia’s Economic Development 2011-2025 (MP3EI). A sound and well-
functioning financial sector and an enabling environment for business are expected to
contribute to the achievement of the MP3EI goals. The key outcome indicators are:

       •   Capital adequacy ratios of banks are maintained or stabilized at the current
           level (around +/- 2 percent of 17.6) as of December 2013.
       •   Non-performing loans are stable or at around 3.8 percent or less at end 2013.
       •   The share of non-bank financial institution (NBFI) assets to total financial
           system assets is 22 percent as of the end of 2013.
     •     The number of households that have received PKH transfers through bank
           accounts is 1.4 million as of the end of 2013.
     •     The annual disbursement of the KUR program to micro and small enterprises
           is IDR 25 trillion (USD2.6 billion) as of the end of 2013.
     •     The number of days to enforce a contract has been reduced to 500 according
           to Doing Business as of the end of 2013.

1.3.       Revised PDO (as Approved by the Original Approving Authority) and Key
           Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

N/A.


1.4.       Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

9.         The FIRM DPL operation has four main pillars:
     •     Reinforcing financial system stability, through reforming the financial sector
           supervisory framework, strengthening the legal and institutional framework

                                                                                           3
           for financial crisis preparedness and enhancing the strength of the deposit
           insurance scheme;

       •   Promoting financial sector diversification, through strengthening the
           protection of investors and customers in the financial sector, and enhancing
           the soundness and capacity of the insurance sector;

     •     Enhancing financial inclusion, through promoting policy coordination,
           developing innovative financial products targeted to the poor, and
           strengthening monitoring and evaluation systems; and

     •     Supporting investment climate regulatory reform, through improving
           policy coordination and strengthening contractual enforcement mechanisms.

1.5.       Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

N/A

1.6.       Other Significant Changes

N/A



2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

2.1.       Program Performance

10.    Building upon the momentum in Government reforms within the
financial sector in particular, the FIRM DPL was delivered in a swift manner.
This was a notable achievement, particularly given that this was the first operation to
be jointly developed with the newly appointed Board of OJK. The operation was
completed in about five months after the concept review. The following are the
supported prior actions that had been completed prior to negotiations.


                                      FIRM DPL
                            Prior Actions                                   Status
 Pillar 1: Reinforcing Financial Sector Stability
 1. The Financial Services Authority (OJK) Board of                        Fulfilled
     Commissioners has been appointed in accordance with the
     Indonesia Financial Services Authority Law and the Financial
     Services Authority (OJK) Preparation Team has prepared a
     comprehensive organizational plan.
 2. The Ministry of Finance, Bank Indonesia and Deposit                    Fulfilled
     Insurance Corporation (LPS) have signed a memorandum of
     understanding on information sharing and coordination in
     order to improve crisis prevention and management.
 3. The Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) Board of                       Fulfilled
     Commissioners has issued a directive to adopt a differential
     premium rate system.

                                                                                       4
 Pillar 2: Promoting Financial Sector Diversification
 4. The Capital Markets and Financial Institutions Supervisory                Fulfilled
     Agency (Bapepam-LK) has strengthened the protection of
     investors through separation of accounts of brokers and
     investors under Regulation No. V.D.3.
 5. The Capital Markets and Financial Institutions Supervisory                Fulfilled
     Agency (Bapepam-LK) has prepared a draft revised regulation
     to strengthen the financial soundness of insurance companies
     and improve corporate governance, which has been issued
     under a Minister of Finance Regulation (PMK No. 53/2012).
 Pillar 3: Enhancing Financial Inclusion
 6. National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty Reduction                   Fulfilled
     (TNP2K): (i) has issued the Indonesia National Strategy for
     Financial Inclusion, including the preliminary action plan; and
     (ii) has implemented a pilot project to provide conditional cash
     transfers through bank saving accounts for beneficiaries of the
     Conditional Cash Transfer Program (PKH).
 7. Bank Indonesia has prepared recommendations for revised                   Fulfilled
     guidelines for “no frills” savings accounts (Tabunganku).
 8. The Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs (CMEA)                     Fulfilled
     Policy Committee on the People’s Business Credit Program
     (KUR) has prepared standard operating procedures that outline
     mechanisms for supervision of the program.
 Pillar 4: Supporting Investment Climate Regulatory Reform
 9. The Committee on the Masterplan for Acceleration and                      Fulfilled
     Expansion of Indonesia Economic Development 2011-15
     (MP3EI) has issued an action plan for priority regulatory
     reforms envisioned under such masterplan.
 10. The Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs (CMEA) has                Fulfilled
     prepared recommendations for the establishment of a small
     claims court through revisions to the relevant legal framework.

2.2.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation

11.     The design and implementation of the FIRM DPL program overall was timely
and satisfactory, on account of the following key factors that affected implementation
in a positive and conducive manner:

       •   Strong government ownership and continuity. The FIRM DPL was
           designed to be aligned with the major reforms taking place within Indonesia’s
           financial sector at the time, as more emphasis was made on creating a more
           dynamic, inclusive financial sector and competitive investment climate. As
           such, the operation benefited from the Government’s reform momentum and
           also helped support the policy dialogue in key areas. The most critical reform
           was the launching of a major restructuring of financial sector regulation and
           supervision effort, through the establishment of OJK. At the same time, a set
           of second generation reforms were also launched with the aim of deepening
           the financial sector and expanding access of financial services to the poor. The
           operation’s close alignment with such critical reform momentum helped


                                                                                          5
           ensure strong government ownership and continuity over the path of reforms
           supported by the FIRM DPL operation.

       •   Stable financial, economic and political environment. Since the 1997-98
           Asian financial crisis, Indonesia had undergone extensive “crisis recovery”
           reforms and a smooth political process that helped put in place a more stable
           financial, economic and political environment overall. Such stability was key,
           as it allowed the Government to move forward with difficult medium-term
           reforms aimed at reinforcing financial sector stability, promoting financial
           sector diversification, enhancing financial inclusion and, to a lesser degree,
           supporting investment climate reforms, i.e., the four policy pillars of the
           operation.

       •   Extensive Bank technical assistance program and strong country
           presence. The World Bank has maintained a broad TA program in Indonesia,
           designed to support the Government’s financial sector development, and solid
           in- country presence. Most of the team members were based in the field office
           and were therefore able to maintain continuously close policy dialogue with
           government counterparts. This helped to build the necessary relationship with
           OJK, a key institutional stakeholder that had just recently been established. It
           also helped to ensure the relevance of the program design and more effective
           program implementation, wherein any potential issues were identified and
           addressed in a timely manner. Furthermore, a large programmatic trust fund
           supported by SECO provided significant resources for the TA program,
           complementing the FIRM DPL operation.


2.3.       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

12.      The M&E framework for the operation was well designed and
implemented. Again, the program benefited from the solid presence of Bank team
members in the field, which allowed continuously close monitoring of the supported
reform actions. Complementary technical assistance and analytical and advisory
activities (AAA) also helped facilitate the M&E of the design and implementation of
the reform agenda. Specific, quantifiable indicators were identified for each of the
four pillars, with clear baseline and target data, which altogether formed a program
results framework that was monitored by the Bank team in collaboration with GoI
counterparts.


2.4.       Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

13.     The Government has requested a follow-on US$500 million FIRM DPL
operation that is to be presented to the Board in early July 2014. The follow-on
operation builds on the indicative areas of reform identified in the first FIRM DPL.
Essentially, the second operation aims to consolidate and deepen reforms along the
same objectives and pillars as the first, with the exception of the investment climate
pillar, where increasing concerns over the protectionist tendencies of some recent
investment climate policies are deemed too risky for support by Bank management
and staff. Nevertheless, business regulation and investment climate issues continue to

                                                                                         6
be an important reform support area for the Bank, with continuing assistance through
other instruments, such as technical assistance and AAAs.

14.    Significant synergies also exist with numerous other follow on World
Bank technical assistance programs. It is noteworthy that the FIRM DPL operation
was also complemented and followed up by significant technical assistance programs
that support financial sector development in general. These include the Indonesia
Financial Sector Strengthening TF, the Indonesia Financial Inclusion Support
Framework Country Support Program and the MPFTIC program for the investment
climate reforms.


3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

15.     Out of the four main pillars of the FIRM DPL, three were related to the
financial sector, demonstrating the sector’s policy importance, as reflected in the
2010 joint IMF-World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)
report. The financial sector pillars were well-aligned with the Government’s efforts
to bolster stability and also deepen the financial sector, marked by the establishment
of OJK and the issuance of the National Strategy for Financial Inclusion. The
operation was also designed to directly address some of the recommendations
identified in the FSAP, particularly those in the areas of: financial crisis prevention
and management; strengthening the regulatory environment; improving the soundness
of the insurance sector; improving corporate governance in the capital markets; and
improving market infrastructure to extend the reach of banking services. The
preparation of a follow-on operation reflects the continued importance of tehse
reforms in the government’s policy agenda.

16.     In contrast, and in hindsight, the alignment of the investment climate
pillar with the Government’s reform momentum was relatively weak. During
preparation, the Government had specifically requested inclusion of the investment
climate pillar in the operation. The Bank team recognized the risks inherent within the
proposed investment climate pillar and, after considering the potential risks and
benefits, and the feedback from management, decided to accept the Government’s
proposal. Two prior actions were then identified for the investment pillar (i.e.,
issuance of the MP3EI regulatory reform action plan and establishment of a small
claims court), which were initially envisioned to help the Government in advancing
smaller, sub-set policy reform areas that would help promote a more conducive
investment climate overall. However, as the operation evolved, the two investment
prior actions proved to have relatively weak relevance to the key investment climate
challenges in Indonesia. Moreover, the investment prior actions were not designed to
address the risks inherent within Indonesia’s investment climate, particularly with
regard to the emerging protectionist tendencies of policy-making. As a result, this
component has been dropped from the follow-on operation, recognizing that the
policy risks at this point exceed any potential benefit.



                                                                                     7
17.     The depth and breadth of the overall Bank program, as well as the
continuously strong in-country presence, also increased the relevance of the
operation as a whole. The operation built upon and expanded the previous core DPL
series, which had historically included a range of financial sector and investment
climate reforms. It also built on the PERISAI DPL-DDO that aimed to enhance the
Government’s crisis preparedness to address the potential adverse impact of financial
markets volatility.


3.2.    Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Policy Area 1: Reinforcing Financial Sector Stability
Objective: To improve financial system stability through effective supervision and
regulation.
Rating: Satisfactory

18.     In accordance with the OJK Law of October 2011, the OJK has now been
established as an independent institution responsible for the regulation and
supervision of financial services. Following the appointment of its Board of
Commissioners and preparation of a comprehensive organizational plan, OJK fully
took over the regulatory and supervisory authority for capital market and non-bank
financial institutions in January 2013, and for the banking sector in January 2014. The
establishment of OJK proved to be smooth and timely, as demonstrated in practice
through issuance of key regulations on the non-bank financial sector 2 within the first
year of its establishment. Such institutional establishment is indeed critical as it
provides the groundwork necessary for more effective regulation and supervision, a
key financial sector reform-deepening area. Nevertheless, a significant institutional
development agenda remains, particularly with regards to delivering improved results
in line with OJK’s institutional mandate.

19.     The Indonesian authorities have made good progress towards establishing
a comprehensive crisis management framework. The National Crisis Management
Protocol provided mechanisms for improved crisis prevention and management,
which helped address gaps in the legal and regulatory framework for financial system
monitoring and surveillance. Such a protocol is especially important given the
multitude of such tasks and agencies involved, including the Ministry of Finance,
Bank Indonesia, LPS and OJK. The Financial System Stability Coordination Forum
(FKSSK), mandated by the OJK Law, has also been established as a new body
responsible for maintaining financial stability. FKSSK members include the Governor
of Bank Indonesia, the Minister of Finance, and the Chairmen of OJK and LPS.
Although the effectiveness of the application of the overall crisis management
framework still needs to be confirmed, it is encouraging to note that the relevant
authorities have undertaken a series of crisis simulation exercises to test the protocols,
and used the findings to modify the arrangements.



2Examples include the OJK Regulation No. 4/POJK.05/2013 regarding Fit and Proper Tests for
Primary Parties of Insurance, Pension Fund, Multi-finance and Guarantee Companies; OJK Regulation
No.2/POJK.04/2013 regarding Share Buy Backs for listed companies under significant fluctuating
market condition.

                                                                                                8
20.      The LPS directive on the technical design for a differential deposit
insurance system helped facilitate policy discussions and consensus-building
within the authorities, which would ultimately contribute towards financial
system stability and effective crisis management. At present, LPS guarantees
deposits or savings up to a maximum amount of IDR 2 billion. The LPS directive on a
differential premium rate system entails imposing higher premiums on banks that are
rated as having higher risks. Such a system is expected to encourage banks to avoid
paying higher premiums through better risk management, thereby ultimately
contributing towards financial system stability and effective crisis management. This
is an important policy reform area that is also consistent with the FSAP findings,
which recommended LPS to move towards a more transparent, market-based ceiling
rate on insured deposits, and also suggested the measure of a differentiated cap for
different bank structures. The new differential rate design has significantly helped
facilitate the policy discussion and consensus building, particularly between LPS and
the Government. The design is expected to be formalized soon through a government
regulation.

21.      Prior actions supported under the first pillar of the operation represent
key reforms aimed at strengthening financial services regulation and
supervision, improving crisis management protocols and putting in place a risk-
based deposit insurance system. Altogether, these are key elements underlying
Indonesia’s achievement in improving its financial system stability, notwithstanding
the external risks in international financial markets that remain. The improved
stability has been demonstrated particularly through the following key banking sector
soundness indicators: (i) Banks were well capitalized, with the capital adequacy ratio
(capital over risk-weighted assets) of the consolidated balance sheet of the banking
sector as a whole remaining at 18.13 percent as of the end of 2013, significantly
higher than regulatory requirements and providing the necessary buffer against
vulnerabilities to changes in investor sentiments; (ii) Non-performing loans remained
reasonably low, at 1.77 percent as of the end of 2013, the continued decline of which
is particularly notable given the increased financial market volatility in Indonesia in
2013.

      Figure 1: Indonesia banking capitalization and non-performing loans
                19                                                              10
                                                                      18.13
                                                                                9
                18
                                                                                8
                               17.42                         17.43
                18                       17.18                                  7
                17   16.76
                                                                                6
        CAR %




                                                                                     NPL %




                                                                                5
                17                                                              4
                                                   16.05
                          3.20      3.31
                16                                                              3
                                              2.56
                                                        2.17
                                                                  1.86     1.77 2
                16
                                                                                1
                15                                                              0
                     2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013

                                           CAR        NPL




                                                                                             9
22.     However, the financial system remains vulnerable to a variety of risks.
For instance, the financial system is still heavily dominated by the banking sector,
accounting for about 80 percent of financial system assets as of the end of 2013. The
system is also highly concentrated, with the top three state-owned banks accounting
for one-third of banking assets and deposit base. Significant gaps also remain within
the crisis management framework, which undermines the tools necessary for effective
bank resolution. Nevertheless, the authorities are aware of the gaps and have been
working to address them. The establishment of OJK, for instance, is a key reform
effort to help improve the effectiveness and quality of financial sector regulation and
supervision overall.


Policy Area 2: Promoting Financial Sector Diversification
Rating: Satisfactory

23.      Regulatory protection of stock market investors has been improved to
help strengthen corporate governance and transparency of Indonesia’s capital
market, thereby promoting diversification of the financial sector down the road.
The FIRM DPL supported the issuance of the Bapepam-LK regulation (Regulation
No. V.D.3) that required the separation of accounts of brokers and investors, and the
establishment of sufficient authority and measures to monitor implementation. This
regulation promotes further development of the capital markets, as it allows investors
and authorities to access better quality information on securities portfolio and trading
activities, thus enhancing risk-management practices. Ultimately, the regulation is
expected to promote investor confidence and more diverse and liquid investment
activities in the capital markets by facilitating improved corporate governance and
transparency and thereby promoting the diversification of Indonesia’s financial sector
that is still dominated by the banking sector.

24.     Regulatory enhancement of insurance companies’ financial soundness
and improved corporate governance of the insurance sector overall help
strengthen the regulatory framework for the insurance industry, thereby also
promoting diversification of the financial sector. The operation also supported the
issuance of a revised Ministry of Finance Regulation (PMK No. 53/2012) that
improves the measure of risk-based capital for insurance companies. 3 The regulation
entails an increase in the minimum capital requirements of insurance companies,
which could promote the consolidation and strengthening of the insurance industry,
possibly through mergers, acquisitions and partnerships with better-capitalized
foreign insurers. Ultimately, the regulation is expected to foster a more diverse and
financially sound insurance industry.

25.     While the two prior actions under this pillar represent significant reform
efforts within the capital market and insurance sector, much remains to be done
for further development of the non-bank financial sector. Latest data as of the end
of 2012 indicate that the NBFI sector accounted for only 24 percent of total financial

3 The revised regulation: (i) required higher capital for companies offering investment products; (ii)
increased the type of investible assets; (iii) introduced limitations on business operations and corporate
actions for companies unable to meet the minimum capital requirements; and (iv) clarified limitations
of investment of affiliated parties.

                                                                                                       10
assets. This is a substantial increase from that of 20 percent as of the end of 2011, but
still remarkably low compared with other countries such as Malaysia, South Korea
and Brazil. In order for Indonesia to mobilize savings adequately to serve its
investment needs, a more diversified set of financial products is needed to help firms
and households reduce vulnerabilities and manage financial risks more effectively.
This entails further development of various players within the NBFI industry, such as
insurance companies, pension funds, mutual funds, finance companies, securities
companies and pawnshops.


Policy Area 3: Enhancing Financial Inclusion
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

26.     The National Strategy for Financial Inclusion proved (NSFI) to be a key
strategic tool for the Government, as it establishes financial inclusion as a
national priority. Developed by a multitude of government agencies, 4 the strategy
marks a critical milestone for policy deliberation and consensus over a key emerging
national priority. Such an achievement is widely viewed as exceptional in Indonesia,
particularly considering the country’s large, diverse and dispersed population overall,
and the bureaucratic complexities. Aimed to provide greater access to finance for all,
the strategy substantially emphasizes financial services access of the underserved,
particularly the three segments of population (low-income poor, working poor and
near-poor) and three cross-cutting categories of people (migrant workers, women and
people living in remote areas). Initially used as a strategic tool to provide a consistent
framework and clear guidance on financial inclusion, the strategy was widely
disseminated and proved to be exceptionally useful in helping to lay out common
ground among the various policymakers and financial institutions, both public and
private.

27.     The criticality of the strategy is expected to continue throughout the
medium run, as it facilitates the development and adoption of a long-term
perspective for government policies and support for financial inclusion
initiatives. Going forward, implementation of the strategy and development of an
underlying action plan may remain challenging, as there is a strong need to establish a
clear coordinating structure within the bureaucracy. Furthermore, given that analysis
of the underlying PKH pilot indicates that bank accounts are the least effective means
for PKH transfers, the Government decided to postpone the pilot project until the
problems could be adequately addressed. Hence, achievement of the fourth indicator
within the results framework could not be measured.

28.    The uptake and usage of the ‘TabunganKu’ low-cost savings accounts
have been promoted through clearer guidelines. Given the high demand of the
unbanked Indonesian population for low-cost savings products, in 2010 Bank
Indonesia, together with 70 commercial banks and more than 1,000 rural banks
(BPRs), introduced a low cost savings account called TabunganKu which entails no
monthly administration fees, and only require low opening and maintenance balances.
However, a lack of awareness and several restrictive features have created entry and
usage barriers to potential and existing customers, and led Bank Indonesia to issue

4   Including the Vice President’s Office (TNP2K), Bank Indonesia, OJK, CMEA, MoF and Bappenas.

                                                                                             11
revised guidelines for TabunganKu to all bank providers, which are expected to
encourage domestic savings. The issuance of better guidelines represents an important
step towards bringing the poor into the formal financial sector, as it helps improve the
accessibility and usage of the savings accounts further, particularly for the unbanked
population, who are predominantly the poor.

29.     The effectiveness of the KUR program has been significantly enhanced
through strengthened standard operating procedures for supervision. As
highlighted in the 2010 evaluation of Indonesia’s flagship people’s credit program
(known as the Kredit Usaha Rakyat, or KUR), the program played a substantial role
in increasing MSME access to credit. Significant operational and policy reforms had
been made to improve effectiveness of the program, such as increasing the number of
participating banks, increasing the maximum loan size, extending loan tenors and
increasing guarantee coverage for prioritized sectors. These reforms were also
complemented by the FIRM DPL prior action of putting in place stronger M&E
mechanisms. This was crucial to the effectiveness of the program, as it helped provide
continuous and substantive feedback to the KUR Policy Committee on
implementation challenges, and allowed it to take timely and informed actions to deal
with emerging key policy issues. Altogether, the reforms resulted in a much more
solid lending performance overall, with KUR credit reaching almost 10 million
borrowers as of the end of December 2013 (almost doubling since July 2011) and
total annual disbursement of IDR 41 trillion (much greater than the previous target of
IDR 25 trillion). The high quality of the portfolio was also maintained with an
average NPL of 2.6 percent (compared with the banking sector’s NPL of 1.8 percent).


Policy Area 4: Supporting Investment Climate Regulatory Reform
Rating: Unsatisfactory

30.     The FIRM DPL operation did not result in meaningful outcomes on key
investment climate policy issues. Business environment reforms had featured
prominently in the Government’s Medium-Term Development Plan (RPJMN) 2009-
2014 and the MP3EI, as these reforms were expected to facilitate business start-ups,
encourage investments, increase employment, and enhance FDI inflows in general.
The FIRM DPL attempted to support the Government’s reform efforts in this regard,
such as through the development and issuance of the MP3EI regulatory reform action
plan. Although it is noteworthy that the action plan underwent the significant process
of policy deliberation and consensus building, with the involvement of various
government stakeholders, it does not appear to have resulted in a more systemized
and prioritized approach towards amending the relevant laws and regulations. Further,
this particular action potentially overlaps with other MP3EI-related policy actions
supported under the Connectivity DPL. Overall, significant concerns remain
particularly with regard to ad-hoc and nationalistic tendencies surrounding
Indonesia’s investment climate policy actions.

31.    The establishment of a small claims court is a continuing, medium term
reform process, the impact of which cannot yet be determined as it extends
beyond the DPL timeframe. The FIRM DPL operation supported the Government’s
pursuit of improved contract enforcement through the preparation of
recommendations for the establishment of a small claims court through revisions of

                                                                                     12
the relevant legal framework. This action was designed to help build policy-consensus
over the importance of establishing such small claims court, as it would not only
improve the ease of doing business, but also provide more efficient and affordable
legal services for businesses and individuals and help reduce the backlog of cases
faced by the court system in Indonesia. Clearly, this is a medium-term agenda that
would need to be pursued on a continuing basis, beyond the timeframe of the FIRM
DPL operation. While it is noteworthy that the Doing Business Survey’s number of
days to enforce a contract has been reduced from 570 to 498 as of the end of 2011 and
2013, respectively, such an improvement was attributed entirely to data adjustment
made in the Doing Business Survey, as opposed to any substantial underlying reform
in Indonesia’s investment climate.

32.    Although the Doing Business target indicator was not achieved, the
reform to improve enforcing contracts was continued under a much broader
reform initiative to improve the ease of doing business. The action plan issued on
October 25, 2013, consisted of 17 actions across eight “Doing Business” areas
(aligned to eight of the ten indicators in the World Bank Group’s “Doing Business”
country rankings) and is expected to be implemented in 2014. To ensure
implementation of this policy package, and signify good coordination of these
reforms, the Government has established a joint monitoring team with different
government agencies, including the Presidential Working Unit for Control and
Supervision on Development (UKP4). The private sector has responded favorably to
the announcement of the (domestically focused) policy package, emphasizing the
urgency of such reforms.


3.3.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

33.      The solid results achieved under the financial sector pillars, particularly
the highly satisfactory financial-inclusion pillar, compensate for the
unsatisfactory investment climate pillar, thereby warranting a satisfactory rating
for the FIRM DPL overall. The financial stability, diversification and inclusion
pillars were highly relevant in the context of the emerging government financial
reform momentum and the recommendations highlighted in the FSAP report. The
critical nature, the focus of prior actions and the intended outcomes under these pillars
were also ensured, as they were technically underpinned by key analytical pieces
produced by the Bank and other partners. Altogether, the financial sector prior actions
resulted in generally positive outcomes and contributed significantly to the
Government’s efforts towards the development of a sound, efficient and inclusive
financial sector. Although performance of the investment climate pillar was
unsatisfactory, due to design and implementation issues, this is adequately
compensated for by the solid performance of the financial sector pillars, particularly
the highly satisfactory financial-inclusion pillar. An overall satisfactory rating is
therefore justified for the whole FIRM DPL operation.


3.4.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts



                                                                                      13
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

34.    The 1997-98 Asian financial crisis highlighted the strong link between
financial sector stability and poverty, particularly in Indonesia. Indonesia’s poor
and vulnerable households were especially hurt during the crisis. The cost of
managing Indonesia’s crisis amounted to roughly 50 percent of GDP and an estimated
10 years of consistent progress in fighting poverty were lost in the wake of the crisis.
Formal sector employment rates also fell steeply as many households fell into
poverty, and 23 percent of Indonesia’s population was below the poverty line by
1999. Since then, the Government has made important strides towards establishing
economic recovery, with particular attention on improving financial-sector stability.

35.     The FIRM DPL helped address the issues of poverty and social
development by contributing to the creation of a favorable economic
environment for growth and poverty reduction. More specifically, prior actions
under the four pillars benefited poor and vulnerable groups. Prior actions under Pillar
1 in particular helped create a more sound and stable financial system, which is a
prerequisite for economic growth, job creation and poverty reduction. Prior actions
under Pillar 2 helped improve governance of the capital market and insurance
companies, thereby promoting stability, growth and the availability of more diverse,
non-banking financial products for all, including the poor. Prior actions under Pillar 3
specifically helped to expand the poor, vulnerable groups and women’s access to a
full range of financial services.

36.     The FIRM DPL also aimed to help directly address the challenges that
women face in accessing financial services. The National Strategy for Financial
Inclusion (NSFI), one of the prior actions supported by the operation, includes a
number of programs that are expected to respond to the particular demands of women
for financial services, such as support for financial literacy training for migrant
workers. Another significant initiative is the effort to bring poor women into the
financial system through the PKH program, where women heads of households
receive conditional cash transfers through savings accounts. Going forward, the NSFI
also provides an opportunity for the Government to directly incorporate these issues
into its agency-level programs as the agencies finalize their legally-binding action
plans for the implementation of the strategy. Key performance indicators are expected
to capture gender aspects to the extent possible for various programs at the agency
level. Some agencies, such as the National Agency for Protection and Placement of
Indonesian Overseas Workers (BNP2TKI), which is responsible for implementing
migration policy, already target women in its programs and currently monitors gender
aspects of its work.

(b) Policy Dialogue and Coordination

37.    The FIRM DPL was instrumental in serving as a forum for policy
dialogue between the various government stakeholders and development
partners. Many reform areas supported by the DPL—such as the National Strategy
for Financial Inclusion—involved a wide range of line ministries/agencies and/or
government stakeholders, including CMEA, the MoF, the newly established OJK,
Bank Indonesia, LPS, TNP2K and Bappenas, all with a diverse, varied set of priority
focuses, together with institutional authorities and capacities. The FIRM DPL

                                                                                     14
provided a useful forum for the necessary, multi-stakeholder policy discussions and
consensus-building. CMEA played a strong leadership role in the coordination and
oversight of the reform agenda overall and the prior actions. Other development
partners, such as IFC, IMF, SECO, AusAID and ADB also appreciated the FIRM
DPL’s role in serving as an effective forum for harmonizing development=partner
support to the financial sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)

N/A


4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

38.      Overall, the reform agenda supported by the FIRM DPL program was
strong, with a solid track record and government ownership. The supported
reforms built substantially on reforms that had been supported through previous DPL
series and/or other technical assistance and AAA. This reflects the broad consensus
that has emerged among both high level policymakers and technical staff of key
institutions on the criticality of financial-sector stability, as well as the need to
promote financial inclusion and deepening and reform the business environment.

39.     Reinforcing Financial Sector Stability (Moderate): In general, Indonesia’s
financial sector stability has been achieved with support of the DPL-supported prior
actions, particularly through relevant reforms within the financial sector supervisory
framework, the financial-crisis preparedness framework and the deposit-insurance
scheme. These signify critical policy measures that are unlikely to be reversed.
However, Indonesia’s financial sector, like those in other emerging markets, remains
vulnerable to investor sentiment and international financial market volatility.
Particularly, negative sentiment could result in sudden capital outflows that have the
potential to rapidly undermine the stability of the financial sector.

40.    Promoting Financial Sector Diversification (Moderate): The DPL-
supported regulatory reforms in the areas of capital market and insurance represent
extensive policy deliberation and consensus building process, involving multiple
government stakeholders, which are unlikely to be reversed.

41.     Enhancing Financial Inclusion (Moderate): The National Strategy for
Financial Inclusion and stronger supervision of the KUR program also represent
extensive policy deliberation and consensus-building processes, involving multiple
government stakeholders. Endorsed at the highest level of government authorities, the
NSFI also involved various private stakeholders and was widely disseminated. For
this reason there is only moderate risk that such reforms will not be sustained beyond
the DPL timeframe, regardless of the establishment of a new government
administration.

42.    Supporting Investment Climate Regulatory Reform (Substantial): As
discussed in previous sections, Indonesia’s investment climate policy-making in

                                                                                   15
general remains prone to ad-hoc protectionist tendencies. These appear to have only
intensified as elections draw nearer, with neither of the presidential candidates
signaling any departure from such positions.


5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

43.      The Bank worked closely with the various government counterparts and
other development partners in identifying reforms and monitoring progress. The
solid Bank work program, along with the strong in country presence, also helped
facilitate policy-dialogue and better-targeted complementary technical assistance and
AAA, which helped enhance quality at entry. The Bank also adequately identified and
evaluated the risks inherent in Indonesia’s investment climate overall, and then
decided to include the investment pillar as requested by the Government, after
considering the potential risks and benefits. The Bank then also intensified technical
assistance activities to key ministries on investment-climate issues (e.g., through
MPFTIC and other programs), in attempt to enhance synergies and lower the risks.

44.     The operation was also well-coordinated with other Bank DPL programs
in Indonesia. Specifically, the Bank was moving concurrently in preparing three
sectoral DPL operations (FIRM, INSTANSI and Connectivity DPLs) designed to
address key priorities across the different government reform programs, which
provided more leverage for the Bank to gain government buy-in to the whole DPL
support. Close collaboration with other development partners, including the
Government of Japan, through JICA, ADB and AusAID, also helped to ensure a
harmonized approach towards policy-based lending and reduced the Government’s
transactional costs.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

45.     Given the nature of a DPL operation, all prior actions were fulfilled prior
to Board presentation. Nevertheless, supervision was performed in the context of
assessing the impact of the measures supported in this operation and, more
importantly in a continuing strong policy dialogue, which has now resulted in the
design and preparation of a follow-on FIRM DPL operation focusing on financial
sector development exclusively.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                                                                   16
46.     The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, particularly with regards
to the solid engagement and policy dialogue with the various government
stakeholders and development partners. This helped to ensure the development of a
strategic reform agenda and support program that are highly relevant and deliver
positive results towards achievement of development objectives.


5.2.   Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

47.      The success of the FIRM DPL was attributed to the Government’s high
level of commitment and ownership over the reform agenda. The operation
involved a notably wide number of government agencies and institutions (BI, MoF,
CMEA, Bappenas, TNP2K, BKPM, and LPS) and thus required a high degree of
commitment and ownership, as well as policy coordination. This was done effectively
overall as a result of high level Government support for the DPL. CMEA under the
Deputy for Fiscal and Monetary Policy, in particular, played a key role in convening
the forum for policy dialogue between a wide range of government stakeholders,
facilitating effective and efficient discussions, monitoring the reform progress and
taking any necessary follow-up actions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

48.     The DPL involved the MoF and CMEA as the two implementing agencies
and also included other key government stakeholders, including OJK, Bank
Indonesia, LPS, TNP2K and Bappenas. Overall, these agencies demonstrated
strong institutional capacities and performed relatively well in ensuring successful
implementation of their respective policy reform areas. Despite its recent
establishment, OJK in particular performed well and assumed its supervisory and
regulatory roles and responsibilities in a timely manner. The greater challenge lies
more in coordinating and overseeing these multiple government agencies, which was
successfully managed by the CMEA (as discussed above).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

49.    The overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory. Particularly
noteworthy is CMEA’s strong leadership in coordinating and overseeing the design
and implementation of policy actions, which involved multiple line ministries and
agencies. The successful design and implementation of the operation would not have
been possible without the strong leadership of CMEA and the MoF.




                                                                                  17
6.     Lessons Learned

50.     The evolution of the core DPL program into three sectoral operations
resulted in increased government ownership, a deeper Bank engagement on key
topics, and an improved focus on the Government’s most current priorities.
Since 2004, the Bank has supported a multi-sectoral DPL program in Indonesia with
considerable success. However, in 2012, the Government requested a shift towards a
sectoral approach. In response, the FIRM DPL was one of three operations to be
presented jointly to the Board in November 2012, along with the INSTANSI and
Connectivity DPLs, and proved to be an effective strategy to advance the
Government’s reform program.

51.    The extensive financial sector analytical work that was completed prior to
the DPL was a critical element in identifying the reform program. In particular,
the Indonesia FSAP (2010) and the Indonesia Access to Finance Report (2009)
provided strong analytical underpinnings for the DPL and also helped to build
consensus among technocrats and policymakers on specific reform measures well in
advance of the DPL. To a large extent, it was this advanced dialogue that allowed the
DPL to be prepared in a relatively short amount of time.

52.     The presence of a strong government counterpart to serve as coordinator
was an important success factor in a loan involving multiple institutions. In this
case, CMEA played a strong leadership role in convening and overseeing policy
discussions that involved the MoF, OJK, Bank Indonesia, LPS, the NaTNP2K and
BKPM. Strong ownership from CMEA and the MoF was also important in securing
support from Bank Indonesia and LPS, in particular, as they were formally
independent agencies outside of government and also new to the DPL process.
Eventually, these institutions recognized the benefits of being part of the process and
participated actively in the DPL coordination meetings.

53.     The operation would ideally have been designed as a programmatic series
with a multi-year results framework. A multi-year programmatic approach entails a
longer-term mapping out of reforms that can deliver more meaningful outcomes, and
are in better alignment with the GoI's own strategic plan (RPJMN). Unfortunately,
this approach was not feasible at the time, given that the Government was in the midst
of establishing OJK and therefore unwilling to commit to a second operation during
the transition period. Despite this, the Bank prepared the FIRM DPL as a stand-alone
operation, but outlined the next step of reform measures. These helped to form the
basis for the successor operation, but a programmatic approach from the start would
still have been optimal from both the Government and Bank perspectives, and eased
the preparation of the follow-on DPL.

54.      While the FIRM DPL included a well-structured results framework, a
clearer justification of the selection of outcome indicators and greater
government participation could have improved the impact assessment. While
adequate overall, the monitoring system could have discussed the nature and
justification of the chosen outcome indicators more thoroughly and also included
sources of information to be used for evaluation. Closer collaboration with the
Government, including the different line ministries/agencies, throughout the
preparation phase could have improved monitoring and evaluation of the operation by

                                                                                    18
both the Bank and the Government, and further strengthened alignment with the
Government’s own programs.


7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
      Agencies/Partners

55.     The Bank appreciates the comments provided by CMEA on this ICR Report,
as outlined in Annex 2.




                                                                           19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

        Names                   Title             Unit     Responsibility/
                                                             Specialty
Lending
Alexandra Drees-Gross   Senior Financial        EASFP    Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
P.S. Srinivas           Lead Financial          EASFP    Financial and
                        Economist                        private sector
Carlos Pinerua          Country Sector          EASFP    Financial and
                        Coordinator                      private sector
Djauhari Sitorus        Senior Financial        EASFP    Financial sector
                        Sector Specialist
Yoko Doi                Senior Financial        EASFP    Financial sector
                        Sector Specialist
The Fei Ming            Private Sector          EASFP    Private sector
                        Development
                        Specialist
Neni Lestari            Financial Sector        EASFP    Financial sector
                        Specialist
I Gede Putra Arsana     Financial Sector        EASFP    Financial sector
                        Specialist
Della Y.A.              Private Sector          EASFP    Private sector
Temenggung              Development
                        Specialist
Shireen El-Wahab        Financial Sector        EASFP    Financial sector
                        Consultant
Greg Elms               Senior Private Sector   EASFP    Private sector
                        Development
                        Specialist
Erly Tatontos           Program Assistant       EASFP    Coordination
Titis Arum Pusparesmi   Program Assistant       EASFP    Coordination
Ashley D. Taylor        Senior Economist        EASPR    Country economist
Timothy H. Brown        Senior Natural          EASIS    Environment
                        Resources
                        Management
                        Specialist
Mark Hagerstrom         Country Program         EACIQ    Country program
                        Coordinator
Mariangeles Sabella     Senior Counsel          LEGES    Legal
Melinda Good            Senior Counsel          LEGES    Legal
Ria Nuri Dharmawan      Associate Counsel       LEGES    Legal
Supervision/ICR
Carlos Pinerua          Country Sector          EASFP    Task Team Leader
                        Coordinator


                                                                            20
Alexandra Drees-Gross   Senior Financial    EASFP   Financial sector
                        Specialist
Dara Lengkong           Senior Financial    EASFP   ICR Primary
                        Sector Specialist           Author
Djauhari Sitorus        Senior Financial    EASFP   Financial sector
                        Sector Specialist
Neni Lestari            Financial Sector    EASFP   Financial sector
                        Specialist
I Gede Putra Arsana     Financial Sector    EASFP   Financial sector
                        Specialist
Connor P. Spreng        Senior Economist    EASFP   Private sector
Della Y.A.              Private Sector      EASFP   Private sector
Temenggung              Development
                        Specialist
Erly Tatontos           Program Assistant   EASFP   Coordination




                                                                       21
Annex 2. Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR


On June 17, 2014, the World Bank team met with the Deputy for Fiscal and Monetary
in the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs to share a copy of the draft ICR,
discuss key findings and seek comments. The Deputy suggested that the following
key points be highlighted as the Borrower’s comments on the draft ICR.

   1. The Government in general would appreciate to be involved more closely
      throughout project preparation phase, not only in the identification of prior
      actions, but also in the development of results framework indicators and other
      aspects of the program, as detailed throughout the PD. While CMEA and the
      MoF had typically received the Program Document (PD) just before loan
      negotiations, this should be done much earlier in any future operation, so that
      the relevant line ministries/agencies (e.g., OJK, BI, TNP2K, LPS, etc.) could
      also review and provide substantive inputs to the PD and overall program.

   2. The unsatisfactory achievement of the investment climate pillar was
      acknowledged, which appears to have stemmed from the preparation phase of
      the operation. The Deputy noted that CMEA had initially requested inclusion
      of the pillar, yet identifying critical and well-developed prior actions under the
      pillar turned out to be a challenge. The Deputy also pointed out that the prior
      action of the MP3EI regulatory action plan may have been more appropriately
      supported under the Connectivity DPL that focused on enhancing national
      connectivity, which was prepared around the same time as the FIRM DPL. It
      was appreciated that this pillar is no longer supported under the second FIRM
      DPL.

   3. Although the initial rationale for establishing the FIRM DPL as a freestanding
      DPL (i.e. OJK’s transition phase) was generally understood, a multi-year
      programmatic approach should be explored more thoroughly in a follow-on
      operation. Such programmatic approach entails a more comprehensive and
      longer-term mapping out of reforms, which could help to ensure better
      outcomes and better alignment with the GoI's own strategic plan (RPJMN).




                                                                                     22
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents

•   Program Document, Financial Sector and Investment Climate Reform and
    Modernization (FIRM DPL), December 6 2012, Report No. 73186-ID

•   Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for Indonesia FY2009-2012

•   Indonesia: Financial System Stability Assessment, September 2010, IMF Country
    Report No. 10/288

•   National Strategy for Financial Inclusion in Indonesia

•   Doing Business Reports 2011 and 2013




                                                                               23
MAP




      24
