 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14675

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 03/25/2015

                 Country: Indonesia
                           Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes     No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P130150                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Financial Sector and            Project Costs (US$M):                    100.0                100.0
                           Investment Climate
                           Reform and
                           Modernization
                           Development Policy
                           Loan
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                     100.0                100.0
       Sector Board:       Financial Systems            Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Practice
             Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                11/20/2012
                                                                  Closing Date:            12/31/2013          12/31/2013
         Sector(s):          General finance sector (50%); Banking (25%); Capital markets (25%)
         Theme(s):           International financial standards and systems (40%); Other Private Sector Development
                             (20%); State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (20%); Micro; Small and
                             Medium Enterprise support (20%)
Evaluator:                    Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                       Coordinator:
Lev Freinkman                 Jorge Garcia-Garcia Lourdes N. Pagaran            IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD, page 36), the objective of the Financial Sector and Investment Climate
    Reform and Modernization (FIRM) Development Policy Loan (DPL) was “to promote the development of a sound,
    efficient and inclusive financial sector and support improvements in the investment climate in Indonesia to help
    the Government of Indonesia (GOI) achieve its medium-term economic development and poverty reduction
    goals.” The Loan Agreement (LA) does not contain an explicit statement of project objectives.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:
The policy areas included into the Program Document of the FIRM DPL were the following:

    (i) Financial sector stability . The focus of the program was to improve financial system stability through effective
    supervision and regulation. The primary emphasis was on institutional strengthening of key regulatory agencies
    and improving inter-agency coordination, specifically to provide for (a) establishment of a new powerful
    independent institution (OJK) responsible for regulation and supervision of all financial services; (b) setting-up a
    comprehensive financial crisis management framework, based on clearly spelled-out rules for monitoring,
    prevention, and information sharing; and (c) strengthening a regulatory framework for deposit insurance system.

    (ii) Financial sector diversification . The program aimed to accelerate the development of non-bank financial
   institutions (NBFI), especially within the capital markets and insurance sector. Historically the financial sector of
   Indonesia has been dominated by commercial banks, which hampered adequate mobilization of savings and
   financial risk management. To address this structural deficiency and facilitate diversification, the program
   promoted steps aimed at (a) strengthening governance and transparency requirements for capital market
   participants; and (b) improving regulation of the insurance sector to advance financial soundness and corporate
   governance of insurance companies.

   (iii) Financial inclusion . The program objective was to increase availability of financial services for the poor and
   underserved. The primary tool for this was the preparation of a National Strategy for Financial Inclusion (NSFI) as
   a framework document to guide and coordinate actions of various stakeholders across the government. In
   addition, the program supported several specific interventions to enhance financial inclusion, including: (a)
   broader usage of ‘TabunganKu’ low-cost savings accounts; (b) expansion in the small business credit program
   (KUR); and (c) a pilot scheme for disbursement of government conditional cash transfers (PKH) via bank
   accounts.

   (iv) Investment climate . The program also supported government policies intended to improve the overall
   business environment and strengthen economic competitiveness. It focused in two specific areas: (i) improving
   policy coordination and regulatory certainty by developing a Government regulatory reform action plan, and (ii)
   strengthening institutional arrangements for contract enforcement through modification of the judiciary procedure
   to allow for small claims courts and specialized commercial courts.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The program was appraised on October 9, 2012, approved by the Board on November 20, 2012 and became
   effective on December 14, 2012. The original loan amount of US$100 million was disbursed in full upon
   effectiveness. The original loan closing date, December 31, 2013, remained unchanged.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of Objectives : High

   The objectives of the FIRM DPL were fully consistent with the key priorities and expected outcomes of the current
   World Bank Group Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, Fiscal Years 2013-2015) for Indonesia. The FIRM DPL
   was explicitly mentioned in the CPS in the section on financial sector support within the first CPS Pillar. Under the
   same Pillar, the CPS also underlined a need for investment climate reforms to encourage growth in private
   investments. Furthermore, the current CPS clearly states that one of the key outcomes of CPS implementation
   would be the preservation of financial sector stability, deepening of financial markets, and enhanced access.

   The reforms supported under the FIRM DPL were also well aligned with the objectives of the Government’s own
   longer term development strategy, the Master Plan for “Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesia’s Economic
   Development 2011-2025” (MP3EI), launched in May 2011. The Master Plan also prioritized the role of the private
   sector as a key driver of economic development and growth. In this context, the Government emphasized
   strengthening and diversification of the financial sector, in particular on its ability to operate in a sustainable
   manner in a challenging external environment. According to the ICR, improving economic competitiveness by
   creating a healthier business climate was one of Indonesia’s national priorities for 2010-2014 as stated in the
   Government’s earlier development plan (RPJMN). This also reflected a broader concern about impact of
   administrative barriers on private sector investments (Indonesia was ranked quite poorly by the IFC’s Doing
   Business -- 129th in 2011).

b. Relevance of Design:

    Relevance of Design: Modest

   The causal chain of the operation, as it related to the design of the first three pillars (financial sector reforms),
   was generally convincing. It was linking fiscal and policy support from the Bank to a) the improvements in
   capacity of various financial sector regulators, and b) reduced barriers for expansion in up-take of several
   financial products that mostly bring benefits to the lower-income groups. These regulatory improvements in turn
   have a direct link with improvements in expectations and perceptions of market participants, which in turn have
   supported strengthening financial market confidence, enhancements in financial inclusion, and deepening and
   diversification of the financial system.

   At the same time, the project design shows a significant weakness related to the weak alignment of the
   investment climate pillar with the Government’s reform momentum. The investment climate prior actions did not
   directly address the core problems of domestic business environment, such as e.g. high administrative barriers
   for new entry. Instead, under the Pillar 4, the project intended to reduce those regulatory barriers that were seen
   as important to facilitate FDI inflows. But the project design underestimated the risks associated with the
   emerging protectionist and nationalistic pressures in Indonesia, which ultimately undermined the government’s
   interest in the FDI-facilitating reform agenda (ICR, paras. 16 and 30). It is worth noting that originally the Bank did
   not plan to include the investment climate pillar into the FIRM reform program, being concerned about associated
   risks, but later it agreed to do this at the Government’s request (ICR, para. 43). In hindsight, the inclusion of this
   pillar seems to be a mistake. The follow-up DPL operation did not contain this pillar and had an exclusive focus
   on the financial sector, the area where the Government has shown strong reform ownership.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

    Objective 1: Promote the development of a sound financial sector – Substantial

   The Authorities took further steps to strengthen the regulatory framework in the financial sector. The new
   regulator of financial services, OJK, fully took over the regulatory and supervisory authority for capital markets
   and non-bank financial institutions in January 2013, and for the banking sector in January 2014. The Financial
   System Stability Coordination Forum (FKSSK) has been established as a new body responsible for maintaining
   financial stability. Bank Indonesia has enhanced the regulatory framework for the banking sector through
   issuance in December 2013 of Regulation No.15/12/PBI/2013 addressing the issue of minimum capital adequacy
   for commercial banks. The Deposit Insurance Regulator (LPS) has made steps to strengthen its compliance with
   the International Association of Deposit Insurance core principles. Specifically the new system of differentiated
   premium rates has been adopted in 2013. Several of these reforms were undertaken as part of the preparation of
   the follow-up Bank operation, Financial Sector Reform and Modernization DPL.

   This regulatory progress has had a positive effect on market participants’ confidence and investment practices,
   which brought broad-based improvements in the indicators that reflect health of the banking sector. Capital
   adequacy ratio (CAR, capital over risk weighted assets) of the banking sector as a whole has increased from
   17.6% in mid-2011 to 18.13% at the end-2013 against the DPL target of 17.25-17.95%. The share of
   non-performing loans fell to low 1.77% at the end-2013, against the DPL target of 3.8%.

   According to the IMF (Art. 4 Report, Dec. 2013, pp. 18-19), Indonesia’s financial soundness indicators generally
   improved and compared favorably to its major peers. The banking system appears sound as a whole, with
   systemic risk remaining low. The FKSSK plays the central role in guiding crisis management responses through
   the established rules of coordination across various regulators. However, Indonesia’s financial sector remains
   vulnerable to various risks and there are still significant gaps within the crisis management framework (ICR, para.
   22).

   Objective 2: Promote the development of an efficient financial sector – Substantial

   The Government has taken steps to improve efficiency of the financial sector, in particular by advancing
   diversification of the sector and strengthening the regulatory framework for its non-bank segments. Specifically
   the new comprehensive regulation (PMK No. 53/2012) for insurance companies was made effective on January
   1, 2013. The regulation entails an increase in the minimum capital requirements for insurance companies, which
   would promote consolidation and strengthening of the industry, which historically has been quite fragmented and
   under-capitalized. In addition, in January 2013 the Government enacted a new law on Micro Finance Institutions
   (Law No. 1/2013). These regulatory changes helped to improve market perceptions and encourage additional
   investment leading to the accelerated development of non-bank financial institutions (NBFI): the share of NBFI in
   total financial assets is estimated to reach 24% as of December 2013 (WB staff estimate reflecting the latest data
   available) against the baseline of 20% at the end of 2011 and the DPL target of 22%. Still the share of NBFI in
   Indonesia remains quite low compared to the peers, such as Malaysia.

   Objective 3: Promote the development of an inclusive financial sector - Modest

   The authorities have continued their work to finalize the preparation of the National Strategy for financial inclusion
   and a new Presidential Decree formalizing the Strategy is expected to be issued shortly. Meanwhile, various
   government stakeholders have rolled out their own plans to implement policies aimed at enhancing financial
   inclusion in their respective areas of responsibility. Specifically, in July 2013 the Financial Services Authority
   (OJK) has issued Regulation No.1/POJK.07/2013 on consumer protection in the financial services sector. The
   dedicated financial consumer care center was established and made operational since 2014. On November 19,
   2013, the President of Indonesia issued the National Strategy on Financial Literacy, and the financial literacy
   program has been launched under the OJK’s guideline. Furthermore, in December 2013 Bank Indonesia issued
   the revised guidelines for “no frills” savings accounts (TabunganKu, introduced in 2010) to promote the uptake. At
   the end-2013, the number of TabunganKu accounts reached 10.6 million (as reported by the Bank’s project team
   based on data from Bank Indonesia). The performance of small business credit program (KUR) was also solid,
   with total annual disbursement of IDR41 trillion in 2013 against the DPL target of IDR25 trillion (as more
   information was available to potential borrowers through a more effective outreach campaign).

   However, no progress occurred regarding disbursement of government social transfers (PKH transfers) through
   the recipients’ accounts in commercial banks. The PKH bank account pilot was completed as planned in
   2011-12, but the expansion beyond the pilot was postponed by the Government. This is because, partly due to a
   poor pilot design, the pilot did not prove itself successful (ICR, para. 27, with further clarifications provided by the
   team). So the FIRM target of 1.4 million households obtaining their transfers via PKH bank accounts as of
   end-2013 was not achieved, as there was no pilot expansion in 2013.

   Objective 4: Support improvements in the investment climate - Negligible

   The FIRM DPL did not result in any meaningful outcomes on key investment climate policy issues (ICR, para.
   30). The DPL supported the preparation of the regulatory reform action plan (MP3EI Plan), but the necessary
   internal policy consensus about deregulatory agenda was not achieved. Furthermore, there was some
   backtracking in 2013-14 on regulatory policies in certain sectors, such as mining.

   Overall, Indonesia’s investment climate did not show any broad-based improvement in recent years. Its overall
   Doing Business ranking has improved from 129th in 2011 (according to DB2012 publication) to 114th in 2014
   (per DB2015), but this development was driven by a major change in one single area of business environment -
   ‘Getting a credit’: the country’s ranking there has improved by 55 positions – from 126th in 2011 to 71th in 2014.
   This advancement is another reflection of broad and rather successful financial sector reforms Indonesia has
   undertaken since the late 90s, and which were partially discussed under the FIRM Objectives 1-3 above. In most
   other areas of investment climate, monitored under the DB indicators, including starting a business, registration
   of property, and enforcing contracts, Indonesia’s global rankings remain practically unchanged.

   The reforms in the area of contract enforcement were specifically supported under the investment climate Pillar of
   the FIRM, which intended to facilitate the establishment of small claim courts through revisions to the relevant
   legislation. In the event, implementation of this reform did not go beyond the recommendations stage, and,
   according to the team, there is no immediate prospect for the recommendations, issued as part of FIRM prior
   actions, to have a positive effect on actual dispute resolution practices. The respective DPL target was to reduce
   the average number of days to enforce the contract from 570 in 2011 to 500 in 2013. The actual number for 2013,
   according to the respective DB report, is 498. However, this reduction was entirely due to the change in
   methodology used in the DB survey, and could not be considered as an indication of improvements in dispute
   resolution practices due to a reform effort (ICR, para. 31). Moreover, DB data suggest a further deterioration of
   the situation: the global ranking of Indonesia on the ‘Enforcing contracts’ indicator has deteriorated from 156th in
   2011 to 172th in 2014.



5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The outcome rating of the program is moderately satisfactory reflecting high relevance of objectives, modest
   relevance of design, substantial achievement for the first two development objectives, the modest rating for the
   third objective, and negligible progress for the fourth objective (investment climate). The program helped the
   borrower to make substantial progress in the areas of financial sector’s stability and diversification, as well as of
   financial inclusion. Indonesia’s financial soundness indicators have improved. The core weakness of the program
                                     th
   results relates to the design of 4 Pillar: the design overestimated the government’s commitment to advance
   reforms in the investment climate, while the prior actions did not provide for sufficient reform momentum in the
   event of weak reform ownership.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Indonesian authorities have established a solid track record in the area of financial sector reforms and the
   risk of policy reversal there is considered to be low (ICR, para 39). The performance of the financial sector has
   improved in recent years, while the authorities’ regulatory capacity strengthened. According to the IMF, the
   banking system appears sound as a whole. However, Indonesia’s financial sector, like those in other emerging
   markets, remains vulnerable to external shocks and international financial market volatility. Moreover, important
   gaps still remain in the crisis management framework, including those related to the bank resolution (ICR, para.
   22). According to the IMF, there are also concerns over the existing regulatory framework, in particular with
   respect to robustness of loan classification and provisioning standards. In this sense, the reform agenda in the
   financial sector is far from complete, which justified overall Moderate risk rating for development outcomes under
   project Objectives 1-3.

   The FIRM DPL did not achieve anything among its investment climate targets, and thus there is no risk of losing
   any substantial project’s achievement under project Objective 4. Therefore, this situation does not influence the
   overall risk to development outcome.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The team worked closely with the Government and other partners to put together a comprehensive package
   aimed at advancing broad financial sector reforms. The operation was built upon a strong reform momentum
   in this sector and reflected the lessons learned under the earlier DPL series, which historically supported
   policy packages covering both financial sector and investment climate reforms. The preparation of the FIRM
   was completed in less than six months after the concept review reflecting both availability of deep
   sector-specific knowledge and strong Government ownership (ICR, paras. 10 and 43). The policy package
   was built on strong analytical foundation, including FSAP (2010) and number of more-focused analytical
   reports and assessments (PD, paras. 107-110). Furthermore, the FIRM preparation was supported by
   technical assistance programs coordinated with the development partners, including Governments of
   Australia and Switzerland.

   However, there were two moderate shortcomings in Quality at Entry. First, there was a significant disconnect
   between prior actions and the agreed PDO indicators (as discussed below in section 10a). Second, as
   discussed above (Sections 3b and 4), the team underestimated the risks associated with the proposed
   investment climate reforms, and did not offer adequate prior actions to lock-in the reform momentum in this
   area. In addition, a minor deficiency of project design relates to insufficient preparation of the pilot to disburse
   the PKH social transfers through bank accounts, which later resulted in the Government’ decision to postpone
   the expansion of this activity beyond the pilot stage.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank continued with the intensive program of policy dialogue and technical assistance in both FIRM
   policy areas after project approval. These activities were directly linked to the preparation of the follow-up,
   much larger DPL (USD 500 million), approved by the Board in July 2014. As explained by the team, the Bank
   technical and policy support during the supervision stage included, among others, undertaking a gap analysis
   in NBFI supervision; providing recommendations on integrated supervision models; support for a series of
   crisis simulation exercises to strengthen crisis prevention and management. This work benefitted from the
   solid presence of Bank team in the field.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government has shown a high level of commitment and ownership to the preparation and
   implementation of broad-based reforms in the financial sector. There has been effective policy coordination
   across the Government (including financial sector regulators that are formally independent from the
   Government) as well as monitoring of reform progress (ICR, para. 47). This ongoing commitment is further
   demonstrated by the successful preparation of the follow up DPL in July 2014. However, the Government’s
   performance was clearly unsatisfactory with respect to the investment climate objective. First, the
   Government insisted on inclusion of investment climate reforms into the DPL program against the team’s
   judgment. Second, it failed to deliver any meaningful progress against its original commitments to improve the
   business environment. When it comes to the investment climate agenda, the Government lacked coordination
   and discipline in formulating and implementing its policy.



  Government Performance Rating :                               Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Two main implementing agencies for the FIRM, Ministries of Economic Affairs and Finance, performed
   relatively well in coordinating and overseeing activities of various government agencies involved in the
   implementation of financial sector reforms. The new Financial Services Authorities (OJK) performed
   especially well in assuming its new regulatory responsibilities (ICR, para. 48). However, the government
   agencies were unable to fix the problems blocking implementation of investment climate reforms.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The main weakness of the project M&E design relates to the apparent gap between the prior actions and
   selected monitoring indicators. Most prior actions did not provide for actual policy change, but only for some
   preparatory steps to lead to particular policy reforms in the future, as they were formulated in terms of preparation
   of various drafts and recommendations. In this situation, and given that the project was not part of the
   programmatic series, it would have been desirable to have separate monitoring indicators to track the pace of
   implementation of respective policy reforms after the project was approved. This would have been an appropriate
   way to monitor the operation and find out if it brought about any ultimate policy change. In the event, it did (for the
   financial sector), but this reform success cannot be directly attributed to this loan under the selected project result
   framework.

   The six indicators selected for tracking progress with program implementation did not cover policy and regulatory
   reform developments. Instead their focus was on monitoring changes in the performance of specific segments of
   the financial sector, as well as changes in the contract enforcement mechanisms. Baseline data were provided in
    the Policy Matrix in Program Document (Annex 2).

    In addition, as mentioned in the ICR (para. 54), the development of the M&E indicators could have been done in
    closer cooperation with key government counterparts. This would have resulted in more ownership and perhaps
    bring better alignment of the project results framework with the Government’s own performance targets.


b. M&E Implementation:

     M&E Implementation was limited. The team did not produce any supervision reports, as those are not required
    for stand-alone DPLs per the OPCS guidelines. The ICR reports status of selected indicators as of end-2013, the
    project closing date. The data for Indicator 4 (the number of PKH bank accounts) were not reported, as they were
    not collected in 2013 (as the PKH pilot was discontinued).


c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR does not provide any evidence of utilization of M&E data, e.g. either in the decision making or in the
    design of the follow-up operation.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    No safeguard policies were triggered by this operation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR does not discuss fiduciary issues related to the project implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                  IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory            Moderately             There were significant weaknesses in
                                                       Satisfactory           project design, including those related
                                                                              to the results chain, prior actions, and
                                                                              the M&E framework. And the project
                                                                              performance, while solid under the set
                                                                              of its policy objectives related to
                                                                              strengthening the financial sector, failed
                                                                              to achieve any traction under its
                                                                              investment climate objective.
         Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                    Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory             Moderately             Shortcomings in the project design pull
                                                       Satisfactory           the rating down.

      Borrower Performance : Satisfactory              Moderately             The Government failed to deliver on its
                                                       Satisfactory           commitments under the investment
                                                                              climate portion of reform agenda,
                                                                                supported under the project.

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

       The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:

         The extensive background analytical work is critical for successful preparation and implementation of
          DPL. It is not just a key element in identifying the priorities for reform program, but also a tool for
          consensus building among the government counterparts. In the case of FIRM, this helped to advance the
          policy dialogue and allowed the DPL to be prepared in six months.
         The presence of a strong agency capable of serving as a coordinator within the government became an
          important driver of successful policy reforms in the financial sector. In the case of FIRM and related
          operations, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has shown a leadership role in guiding and overseeing reform
          progress across a large number of stakeholders, some of which are formally independent from the
          Government.

    The following lesson is drawn by IEG:

         Weak prior actions, which do not provide for actual policy change, amplify the risk of an inadequate policy
          reform follow-up. This risk is likely to be further aggravated if the project design does not include special
          monitoring and supervision arrangements to track actual policy development after the project approval.
      


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR presents the detailed analysis of project results and implementation experiences, but it has two
    shortcomings. First, it is quite shallow in discussing actual policy reforms carried out after the Board approval. It
    did not discuss the extent of the Government’s follow-up on policy actions that had constituted prior actions for
    the FIRM. The Bank support to these ongoing reforms at the supervision stage remains unreported by the ICR
    either. For the purposes of this review, to cover this gap, additional documents had to be consulted, including PD
    for the follow-up operation, Financial Sector Reform and Modernization DPL, and the implementation report on
    the Indonesia Financial Sector Strengthening TF (2014).

    Second, the ratings of project progress towards its development objectives, as presented by the ICR, are
    inconsistent with the existing ICR guidelines. The ICR assesses project progress by project Policy Area, not by
    project Policy Objective, as the guidelines recommend. It also uses the incorrect ratings – e.g. Satisfactory vs.
    Substantial – for project efficacy.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
