Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17584
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 3313-HU]
MARCH 31, 1998
ECSHD
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 20, 1998)
Currency Unit        Forint
1 HUF    =    US$ .006
US$1          175 HUF
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994          1995            1996           Oct, 1997         Feb, 1998
105.16        125.7           152.6              194               175
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
CEF  -  Catching up with Higher Education in Europe Fund
CSO   -  Central Statistical Office
HAS  -  Hungarian Academy of Science
HE  -  Higher Education
HRDP  -  Human Resources Development Project
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IIF  -  R&D Computer Network
MOE  -  Ministry of Culture and Education
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOL  -  Ministry of Labor
NLC   -  National Labor Center
NTC   -  National Training Council
OKJ  -  National Vocational List
OTKA   -  National Scientific Research Fund
RLDC   -  Regional Labor Development Training Center
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
TM   -  Task Manager
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Team Leader: Stephen Heyneman, ECSHD
Sector Leader: James Socknat, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ............................................................ i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives .
B. Project Sustainability .....................................................                                            4
C. Bank Performance ..................................................... 5
D. Borrowers Performance .....................................................                                            5
E. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                            5
F. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................                                              6
Part II. Statistical Tables ...........................................................                                             8
TABLE1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................                            9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ................................................................... I0
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ................................................................... I0
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .......................................1 ]0
TABLE 5: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROJECT ................................................................... 1
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS ......................       .       .............. .19..............fi.fi..... I9
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING ......................                           .19
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................                 .                                    20
TABLE 8: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...................................               ..                   .              22
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR (Employment and Training) .............................................. 23
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR (Higher Education and Research) ...................................... 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Human Resources Development
Project in Hungary, for which a loan in the amount of US$ 150 million equivalent was approved on April
29, 1991 and made effective on May 22, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1996.
It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on July, 1 1997. For the project no
cofinancing was provided.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Gybrgy Novotny ECSHD, with assistance from Mr. David
Fretwell ECSHD, Ms. Timea Medveczky ECCHU, Ms. Zita Szantai ECCHU and reviewed by Mr.
Maurice Boissiere (ECSHD), Stephen Heyneman, Education Team Leader (ECC07), and Mr. Chris
Lovelace, Director, Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD). Ian Conachy provided invaluable
production assistance.
The borrower and implementing agencies provided their contribution which is included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final full supervision mission (December
16-23, 1996), and was continued during 1997 with the cooperation of the borrower. It is based on the
Staff Appraisal Report, Loan and Project Documents, supervision reports, and on materials in project
files. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own part and commenting
on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focused on
supporting the country's program of structural adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. In the first eight years the Bank has been heavily
involved in the industrial, agricultural and infrastructure restructuring. The Human Resources
Development Project (HRDP) was the first loan giving assistance in a broad spectrum of human
resources issues including labor markets, training, higher education and science and technology research.
However the Third Industrial Restructuring Loan contained some pilot elements of the restructuring of
the labor force.
Project Objectives
2.    The project has addressed certain priority human resources issues that constrain a successful
transition to a market economy.
3.    Specific objectives were to:
(a) assist unemployed workers to find jobs and enterprises to find suitable workers;
(b) provide relevant training for youth and adults, especially in relation to item (a);
(c) improve the responsiveness of higher education to the new technical and managerial demands of
a market economy, with special emphasis on improving access, relevance, quality, efficiency and
financing;
(d) assist in narrowing the technological gap between Hungary and its competitors by expanding and
reorienting the training of science and technology researchers, improving management of
research and improving the linkages between academic community and enterprises; and
(e) develop foreign language competency to promote international economic and technological ties.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    The objectives were clear, important and achievable. They also conformed to Government
priorities for the labor market, education and research sector. The Government did meet all the targets
specified under HRDP. Performance of almost all project components in regards to meeting initial
schedule and cost estimates was complete. The project's one year extension became necessary because of
the adjustment to the changing needs of the adult training component. The most important change was a
reduction in the number of training centers from ten to eight, and establishment of mobile facilities,
-i-



linked with the main centers. The change in the adult training component did not result in immediate
improvements as it has proven difficult and time-consuming to find the right design and a modus
operandi that meets the approval of local governments and other key players.
5.    The most important achievements of the objectives were:
(a)    - a modem labor statistics system was developed;
- a short-terrn (6 month) labor forecast model was adopted;
- youth and adults received information allowing them to exercise their right and
responsibility to make informed career choices;
- public employment services were modernized, including modern job
counseling and placement techniques, automated career inforrnation systems
and training for staff;
(b)    - 8 new Regional Labor Development Training Centers (RLDCs)and 31 new
mobile centers were established covering the entire country and giving training
to about 10,000 persons per annum;
- in 79 vocational secondary schools new education systems were introduced,
including the development of new curricula in general, and vocational
training, and providing up to date equipment (yearly about 5,000 pupils receive
training in these schools);
(c)    - through a competition based funding system the supported sections of the
higher education and the connecting basic research activity were modernized,
better equipped and became capable of providing training and services on a
Western European level;
- after the reorganization and development of the training of scientists, the
universities were empowered to award research degrees;
(d)    - open instrument centers, in which the facilities and equipment are open to all
researchers to be shared, and were supported as a cost effective way to help modernize
and improve research activities at the universities and research institutes;
- a nation wide information network, connecting the Hungarian universities,
research institutes and libraries was implemented;
- about 360 young scientists were supported and their research opportunities
were improved;
(e)    - three year retraining courses were organized for more than 2000 Russian
language teachers;
- new language training methodology, and communication oriented curricula
were introduced.
6.    All the project objectives were met.
Sustainability and Plans for Future Project Operations
7.    Overall the project is judged by the MOL, CEF, and OTKA to be sustainable. The political
support of the Government continues, and the related legal and institutional framework is continuously
improving. The central, and regional funding system, and the normative financing of higher education
and secondary schools provide a financial basis for the recurrent costs. Since the project schools, and
adult training centers are expected to be continually enrolled to meet demands for secondary vocational
and adult education, the project benefits are expected to be sustained and to increase for several years to
come.
;;I



8.    The project equipped the employment network, adult and youth training centers, higher
educational institutes and research centers with state of the art facilities and training equipment. Although
the institutions were to submit plans for maintenance of equipment when they submitted their proposals,
certain more sophisticated equipment has been aging rapidly, and the coverage of maintenance and their
running costs will cause problems to the institutions. The recently approved Higher Education Project
(FY98) includes financial reforms that would address this issue.
9.    The MOL and MOE are committed to project sustainability as evidenced by the follow up
projects, Youth Training and Higher Education. These projects continue and expand activities of the
HRDP.
Bank and Borrower Performance
10.   The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. The Bank had a positive impact on the design
of the project. The project supervision was well organized, the supervisory team was well rounded and
encompassed several specialists. The Bank organized regular supervision missions, and the continuous
presence of the Task Manager (TM) and the procurement specialist in the field helped the smooth
implementation in the later stages of the project.
11.   The overall performance of the Borrower and the implementing agencies was satisfactory in all
phases of the project, and was in compliance with all main loan covenants. The commitment of the
Government was demonstrated by the enhanced financial contribution. Instead of the originally planned
US$ 189.8 million value GOH contribution, it was about 50% higher. This surplus financing covered the
additional procurement, the development of the demanding environment of the computers and
sophisticated equipment and the additional civil works at training centers.
Assessment of Outcome
12.   The project has achieved all its major objectives and has achieved the following substantial
development results:
(a) the MOL and its institutions developed an enhanced capacity to handle employment issues;
(b) increased awareness of the need for adult training corresponding to the market's demands;
(c) increased awareness of the need for a modern secondary vocational education system responsive
to the needs of students and the labor market;
(d) upgraded the status of many secondary vocational schools;
(e) measures were introduced to improve responsiveness of higher education to the new professional
demands of a market economy;
(f) upgraded the level, and quality of higher education;
(g) strengthened the competitive segments of research activities at scientific research institutions and
universities
(h) the brain-drain and professional loss of the young scientists did not increase further with the help
of the young scientist programs;
(i) upgraded the status of many departments of research institutes;
(j) fulfilled the increased need for foreign language fluency.
13.   On the basis of the above, the outcome of the project was assessed as highly satisfactory, as all its
major objectives have been met and all components are considered sustainable.
-iii-



Key Lessons Learned
14.   The project provided an important input to the on-going transitional reform process.
15.   There were some lessons learned from this project, many of which could be applied in future
projects, and some of which were applied during this project's implementation.
16.   The lessons were:
(a) The Bank and the Borrower need flexibility in adjusting project design and implementation
schedule of the project without formal amendment, provided that the changes are in line with
the main objectives of the project.
(b) In projects where reform actions are supported, a well-prepared public information campaign
could help citizens and institutions understand their roles, responsibilities and opportunities.
(c) The project management structure has to be adapted to the project structure. In case of big,
multi-component projects, the Bank and Borrower must undertake an analysis during project
preparation and find the proper implementation management structure, identifying skill mix.
(d) Wherever possible, mainly in case of big complex projects, the Bank has to make an effort to
have the task team leader and procurement expert settled in the field, or in a geographically
close Hub.
(e) Although the general conditions of the loan require adequate maintenance of equipment, in
new loan agreements the Bank should request more specific guarantees from Borrowers that
the sophisticated equipment purchased from the loan will be operational during the life of the
loan.
(f) The Bank should encourage Borrowers to hire experienced procurement agents to accelerate
the procurement process.
Performance Indicators
Although performance indicators and outcome indicators were an inherent part of the original
project design, they were not explicitly "written-up" as part in the SAR. Table 5 in part II lists the main
performance and outcome indicators as derived from the general text of the SAR.
-iv-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Bank has been closely associated with Hungary's transformation since it joined in
1982. The 1985 CAS which was in effect during most of the project implementation period
states: "Overall, the Bank's program of support would have the broad objectives of helping
Hungary to maintain macroeconomics stability and accelerate its growth to facilitate EU
accession; strengthening and privatizing Hungary's financial and enterprise sectors; reforming
social policies and strengthening the human resources base; improving environmental
management; and attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and know-how, especially in the
infrastructure sectors."
2.    A Human Resources Review conducted jointly with the Government and Bank in 1990
was elaborated and helped to outline a new human resources strategy. The project was the first
Bank human resources operation in Hungary. However, valuable experience was gained in the
Employment Component of the Third Industrial Restructuring Project ( FY 89; Loan No. 3020-
IHlU), and important labor market policy reforms were implemented as part of the Structural
Adjustment Loan (FY 90; Loan No. 3228-HU)
3.    A new government came to power through free parliamentary elections in 1990 with a
mandate to establish a full fledged market economy. The inherited rigid labor market,
unresponsive training system, and the fragmented and outdated higher education system
inappropriately linked to industry and scientific R&D severely constrained the success of the
economical reforms and the move to a market economy. The new government has realized that
new institutions and major structural reforms were needed to address human resources issues.
The main issues were: emerging unemployment, obsolescence of much of the training system,
including a narrow vocational training, lack of management and foreign language skills, and the
scientific and technological gap between Hungary and its competitors. The Hungarian
government realized that national resources were not sufficient to start and sustain the reform
Therefore the involvement of the World Bank, as a development and financing agency was
requested.
4.    The program that was developed to address the above issues was outlined in a resolution
issued by the Council of Ministers in October 1990 supporting the unified and coherent program
of human resources investments in this project.
-1-



5.     In order to support the Government's human resources policy reform  program, the
HRDP had five specific objectives:
(a) assist unemployed workers to find jobs and enterprises to find suitable workers, with
emphasis on meeting the special needs of unemployed women and their families';
(b) provide relevant training for adults and youth, including entrepreneurial training,
especially in relation to item (a);
(c) improve the responsiveness of higher education to the new professional demands of a
market economy, with special emphasis on improving access, relevance, quality,
efficiency and financing;
(d) assist in narrowing the technological gap between Hungary and its competitors by
expanding and reorienting the training of science and technology researchers, improving
management of research and forging better linkages between the academic community
and enterprises; and
(e) in support of items (b) through (d), improve foreign language training to promote
international economic and technological ties.
Main components of the HRD Project
Part A: Employment and Labor Trainin
6.     This component developed and implemented programs to:
(a)    Upgrade and expand labor market information systems and employment
assistance services ( to be implemented by the Ministry of Labor):
- improve labor statistics, through establishment of an unemployment
monitoring system;
- broadening the establishment sample frame to include the private sector;
- improve wage and cost of living data by carrying out surveys; and
- revise the system of occupational and sector classification, including the
development of a sector/ occupation matrix to analyze employment patterns;
(b)    Provide support to the MOL to develop labor market analysis in the following areas:
- survey of short term trends in each region;
- initiation of a National Occupational Information Coordinating Council; and
- medium term (I to 5 year) labor market analysis;
(c)    Develop employment services assisting in matching workers with appropriate
jobs and otherwise facilitate the mobility of the labor from where it is excess to
more productive uses. Through this subcomponent the following activities were
supported:
- refinement and expansion of industrial adjustment services for mass layoffs;
- refinement and dissemination ofjob search techniques and materials;
- development and dissemination of automated Career Information Systems; and
- development of new short and long-term professional training programs for
career counselors in labor offices, and schools.
During the project implementation it became clear that the women's unemployment was not a special issue in
Hungary. Through years of 1992-1997, the percentage of unemployed women of the total unemployed persons
was about 39%. The rate of unemployment of women was lower with 1.3 than the average. In Hungary the mass
lay-off affected the heavy, and construction industry and the mines where the proportion of women was low.
Analysis show clearly that the active labor programs -except public works- were more effective in case of
women than men.
-2-



7.    This component also improved the specialized occupational training for adults to better
meet retraining needs, during and after the transition period, through the establishment of
regional training boards which formed and operated regional labor development centers with
effective linkages to the regional economy and labor market (implemented by the National
Training Council). In particular, the component supported:
(a) the development of a labor market based training system, providing a flexible and
rapid response to the training needs of adults;
(b) the creation of a tripartite National Training Council and affiliated regional training
boards which defined policy for provision of regional flexible adult training
programs for young first time job seekers, mature unemployed adults, incumbent
workers who need skill upgrading, women workers, and had a budget to fund a
portion of the cost of the programs; and
(c) regional training board programs providing training capacity through the Regional
Labor Development Centers (RLDCs) or sub-contracting with other institutions.
8.    The component also initiated reform of vocational secondary schools for youth, who
were enrolled in a narrow and out-dated vocational training system, through developing model
vocational secondary schools. The schools provided more general education and broader training
in clusters of occupational skills to be followed, if necessary, by specialized training on the job or
in programs under the National Training Council (to be implemented by Ministry of Culture and
Education and Ministry of Labor).
9.    The new vocational system developed and implemented programs to:
(a) define procedures to develop vocational curricula;
(b) develop new vocational training curricula for up to 15 skill clusters;
(c) develop and implement basic education programs;
(d) support two audio-visual centers where training materials are prepared;
(e) improve guidance and counseling programs in all schools;
(f) improve bilingual education in selected vocational schools; and
(g) improve training provided by five regional higher education institutes in the field of
vocational teaching counseling and administration.
Part B: Higher Education and Research
10.   This component developed and implemented programs to:
(a) upgrade and expand Higher Education;
(b) establish the higher education development fund (CEF) with a mandate to review and
select the winners of competitions for innovative and relevant higher education
programs, grant funding to higher education institutions to carry out schemes to
promote greater collaboration and resource sharing among universities;
(c) develop interdisciplinary educational programs and integrate research and teaching
functions through expanded collaboration among universities and research institutes; and
(d) improve the recovery of costs of the provision of higher education.
11.   This component also developed a framework of university programs for foreign language
training to:
(a) strengthen the secretariat of CEF to serve as an instrument for funding and
monitoring innovative foreign language training programs on a competitive base;
(b) create a National Council of Foreign Languages guide foreign language policy and
approve balanced programs of regional investment;
-3-



(c) develop bilingual vocational curricula in vocational secondary schools and of foreign
training within adult training;
(d) formulate and implement an investment program to retrain Russian language
teachers; and
(e) improve practical foreign language fluency of students.
Science and Technology Research
12.           To meet the pressing need to preserve Hungary's scientific and technological
capability and to link it to teaching and commercial activity to support entry into international
markets, the following actions were taken:
(a) the establishment of a Science Policy Committee chaired by a Minister
(b) the establishment of an autonomous foundation to support basic sciences (OTKA)
(c) preparation of legislation to define the role of the HAS as an autonomous institution
dedicated to the promotion of high quality science.
13.    The component strengthened the institutional and financial capacity to improve the
training of research scientists and engineers as well as the quality of research by:
(a) supporting research by young scientists;
(b) upgrading and expanding the network of scientific instrument centers;
(c) developing the national R&D computer network (IIF) used by the academic and
industrial research communities.
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
14.    The GOH is committed to project sustainability. The political commitment of the
government exists, and the related legal and institutional framework is continuously improving.
In the case of adult training centers, the central and regional funding systems (the increasing
Labor Market Fund and increasing demand of the new and transformed enterprises for adequate
training opportunities) ensure that the recurrent expenses will be covered for the long run. As
mentioned earlier, project schools and training centers are expected to be continually over-
enrolled to meet demands for secondary and adult education, and project benefits will continue to
increase for several years to come. The normative financing which provides funds to the schools
on the basis of the number of enrolled students in secondary and higher education provides a
basis for competitive schools to service, repair and develop the instruments provided by the
project.
15.   The project equipped the employment network, adult and youth training centers, higher
education institutes and research centers with state of art instruments and training equipment.
There are some risks that certain of the more sophisticated project equipment, mainly in the fields
of higher education and research, will not be utilized to their full capacity and may not be
repaired/upgraded if needed due to lack of resources. The recently approved Higher Education
Project (FY98) includes financial reforms that would address this issue.
16.   The Borrower is committed to project sustainability as evidence by follow-up projects,
namely the signed Youth Vocational Training Project, and the Higher Education Project near to
Board presentation.
-4-



C. BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   The Bank was responsive and sensitive to national development priorities in the design of
the project objectives, and the project fitted well with Hungary's development strategy. Project
inputs were needed to handle the employment issues emerging from the transition to a market
economy, and to modernize and improve the quality of vocational education, and higher
education and research. The project is recognized to have contributed to achieving these goals by
the project beneficiaries. The project was ambitious in its targets, but properly planned
implementation on the Borrower's side, and active project management from the Bank's side,
helped to overcome issues that emerged from time to time (the 3 main components of the project
were managed by properly staffed and committed PMUs, and the Bank's project management
team in the latter stage of implementation was working in the field). During supervision missions
the experts and consultants were selected properly, and they helped with project implementation.
The Borrower from the beginning appreciated very much the advice and help of the Bank's staff.
D. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
18.   The Government maintained full commitment to the project's objectives throughout
project implementation and remained committed to project sustainability. However, institutional
weaknesses at the early phase of the project caused some delay. The one year extension of the
project became necessary due to the rapidly changing political and economical environment in
the country, and a part of the project implementation strategy on the establishment of adult
training centers was slightly modified. MOL and the Government continue to be committed to
improving the employability of secondary school graduates and to providing services job related
skills to the unemployed. MOE is committed to modernize the higher education system, including
the institutional and legal background. Resources for the education and research sectors,
however, have remained limited and thus the project's resources were highly valuable. The
Borrower is also to be commended for being economical in its purchases and financing,
proposing competitive procedures. The Borrower's performance is rated as highly satisfactory
based on its successful completion of the project and its commitment to project sustainability.
This rating also takes into consideration the fact that the MOL's PCU, the FEFA Office and
OTKA Office did an excellent job in the implementation.
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
19.   Based on substantive achievements of project objectives which targeted unemployed
workers, adults and youth trainees, higher education and research institutes, and foreign language
training, the project is rated as having achieved a "highly satisfactory" outcome. Notable project
benefits, among others, included:
(i) the MOL and its institutions became capable of handling the employment issues
through the creation of a network of institutions dealing with these issues, with long term
and short term measures, by the provision of a network of well equipped employment
offices throughout the country with trained staff (in the centrally planned economy there
was no official unemployment, therefore it was not handled by any government
institution);
(ii) increased awareness of the need for adult training corresponding to the market's
demands by the provision of relevant, cost effective training and retraining for adults as a
short term/quick response measure, and by the provision of entrepreneurial training and
job counseling programs as a long term measure;
-5-



(iii) increased awareness of the need for a modem secondary vocational education
system responsive to the needs of students and the labor market (and the wider European
market) and as a long term measure to re-orient the education system;
(iv) upgraded the status of many secondary vocational schools through the provision of
new curricula, essential equipment, and training materials;
(v) measures were introduced to improve the responsiveness of higher education to the
new professional demands of a market economy through the introduction of competitive
grant funding in higher education, rationalization of scientific degrees, establishment of
Ph.D. training at universities, and the introduction of normative financing;
(vi) upgraded the level, and quality of higher education through provision of up-to date
equipment, computerized training, and library systems;
(vii) strengthened the competitive segments of research activities at scientific research
institutions and universities through better cooperation, and higher level integration
among universities and research institutes, increased and improved access to the
international computerized information network, and creation of open instrument centers,
where the research activity can be conducted according to the demand of the enterprises;
(viii) the brain-drain and job leaving of the young scientists did not increase further with
the help of the young scientist programs;
(ix) upgraded status of many of the departments of research institutes through provision
of essential equipment and preventing them from falling further behind the European
research level; and
(x) fulfillment of the increased need for foreign language knowledge through
development of practically oriented foreign language training, provision of new
curricula, self access language laboratories, and retraining of the excess Russian
language teachers.
F. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
20.   There were some lessons learned from this project, many of which can be applied in
future projects, and some of which were applied during this project's implementation:
(i) Adjustment in Project Design. In countries in a transition period, the project needs to
adjust to emerging needs in society, changes in labor markets, and changes in legislation.
The projects cannot be static in design over the implementation period.
Lesson: The Bank and the Borrower need flexibility to adjust the project design and
implementation schedule of the project if needed without formal amendment, provided
that the changes are in line with the main objectives of the project.
(ii) Employment Services. The objective of this component was to modernize the public
employment services to assist with the redeployment of labor in the developing market
economy. These types of actions need to re-orient staff and clients to enable them to
better understand the role and responsibility of individuals and the "state".
Lesson: In projects where reform actions are supported, a well-prepared public
information campaign could help citizens and institutions to understand their roles,
responsibilities and opportunities.
-6-



(iii) Project Management. However the project was very ambitious and complex, but the
properly staffed and trained staff of the project management units could overcome the
issues that emerged during implementation. Three "PMUs" were established to handle
the three main components of the project, and each had their own responsibility. The
PMUs had the support of the ministries, and of their principals.
Lesson: The project management structure has to be adapted to the project structure. In
the case of big, multi component projects, the Bank and Borrower must undertake an
analysis during project preparation and find the proper implementation management
structure, including skill mix.
(iv) Bank's Staff in the Field. In the last five years of implementation of the project, the
task manager and later the procurement experts were settled in the field. This
arrangement made frequent contact between the implementing agencies and Bank staff
easier and quicker.
Lesson: Wherever possible, mainly in case of big complex project, the Bank has to make
an effort that the task team leader and procurement expert are settled in the field, or in a
geographically close Hub.
(v) Operation, maintenance and service of sophisticated equipment. The project provided
sophisticated equipment to the research centers, universities. Although the institutions
were to submit plans for maintenance of equipment when they submitted their proposals,
these institutions are now facing up to the fact that they cannot operate, maintain and
service these high value equipment because of the lack of financial resources.
Lesson: In new loan agreements the Bank should request more specific guarantees from
the Borrowers that the sophisticated equipment purchased from the loan will be
operational for at least 3 years after the closing date. The recently approved Higher
Education Project (FY98) includes financial reforms to address this issue.
(vi) Use of Procurement Agents. The PMUs contracted experienced procurement agents
to arrange the procurement process, including custom clearance, the organization of
implementation, acceptance protocols etc.
Lesson: The Bank should encourage the Borrowers to hire experienced procurement
agents to accelerate the procurement process.
-7-



Part 11. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Performance Indicators
Table 6A:  Project Costs
Table 6B:  Project Financing
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
-8-



STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                 x
Sector policies                     x
Financial objectives                              x
Institutional development            x
Physical objectives                                                            x
Poverty reduction                   x
Gender issues                                     x
Other social objectives                                                        x
Environmental objectives                                                       x
Public sector management                                                       x
Private sector development                                                     x
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability              Likely        Unlikely          Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                            x
Preparation assistance                                  x
Appraisal                                               x
Supervision                              x
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                             x
Implementation                           x
Covenant compliance                       x
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome      satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
x
-9-



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Creditsl
Loan/credit title        Purpose        Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1.111. Ind. Restructuring                  FY1 989             Closed
2.
3.                   -
Following operations
I .Youth Training             _            FYI 998             Approved
2.Higher Education                         expected FY 1998    Negotiated
3.
Etc.
1. Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations
with related objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when preceding operations.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned2     Date/actual
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               _
Preparation
Appraisal                                        October 1990     October 1990
Negotiations                                     February 1991    February 1991
Letter of development policy (if applicable)     Not applicable    Not applicable
Board presentation                               03/28/1991       03/28/1991
Signing                                          04/29/1991       04/29/1991
Effectiveness                                    June 1991        05/22/1991
First trance release (if applicable)            Not applicable    Not applicable
Midterm review (if applicable)                   December 1993    May 1994
Second (and third) trance release (if applicable)  Not applicable    Not applicable
Project completion                               12/31/1995       12/31/96
Loan closing                                     06/30/1996       06/30/1997
2. As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1992     FY1993      FY1994      FY1995    FY1996        FY1997
Appraisal     20,000      55,000      105,000     145,000     150,000     150,000
estimate
Actual        12,149      21,801       58,736      99,383     135,830     149,997
Actual as %    60.74%     39.63%      55.94%      68.54%      90.55%      100%
of estimate
Date of final   06/30/1992   06/30/1993   06/30/1994   06/30/1995   06/30/1996   10/31/1997
disbursement
-10-



Table 5: Performance Indicators
Improve Employment Information and Services
Main Performance Indicators         Actions                                      Result
(A) Provide labor statistics  A. 1.  Strengthen the Uniform Population Data Collection  This was a priority task and involved de-centralization
needed to support operation of a    System                                       of the reference numbers for better cooperation with
market economy                                                                   county labor offices and tax authorities;
elaboration and introduction of new nomenclature for
economic units;
introduction of new sectoral classifications (compliance
with ISIC/ NACE.
Information relating to the total population has become
more reliable.
A.2.  Broaden the establishment registration data base    This complex task is ongoing, but it will take several
years to complete and it depends on cooperation
between the Employment Service and the Tax
authorities as well as the Central Statistical Office to
avoid duplication of effort.
A.3.  Increase availability of current wage data   The new system to determine wages aimed at
institutional reconciliation, wage negotiation and
agreement required a common data base and this was
done at national level with random sampling and
computerized data processing. Results are forwarded to
all interest representation associations and the annual
publication of important results.
A.4.  Update the Consumer Price Index and related living  Established and ongoing in terms of Household surveys
standard information data bases              and Occupational wage surveys. The Household survey
involves 8,500 households on a monthly basis but results
are published on a quarterly basis. This has become a
most important source of labor market information,
especially since joining OECD.
-11-



A.5.  Revise and modernize occupational & educational/  The adoption of the International Standard Classification
trainin1g classification systems and establish  of Occupations; the development of occupational
linkages between them                           descriptions for the occupational directory and the
parallel development of educationial classifications were
completed and integrated with the career choices
program in use at employment ccnters, schools and adult
training centers. It is worked out to the 4 digit
classificationi system.
A.6.  Develop, through analysis of census data &       All the information necessary for the preparation of the
implementationi of establislhment surveys, a sector/  matrix was compiled and the first survey was completed
occupational matrix system to define occupational  in 1995 (for 1994) to calculate the number of employees
structure of major sectors                      per occupationi using a special logarithm.
(B) Develop short and medium    B. 1.  Refine short-term (6-12 monthls) and medium tern   Applications are made twice per year. Since 1992 a 3
tern techniques for labor market      (1-5 years) labor market analyses and train staff in  tier (local/county/national) computer based processing
analyses                              all regional labor offices                       system was established. Forecast surveys were made in
March and September as well as the county and national
short term forecasts based on these surveys have proved
successful.
B.2.  Initiate a National Occupational Information     An inter-ministerial committee comprising the Statistical
Coordinating Committee                          Office and computer experts with overview exercised by
the existing Information Committee of the Interest
Reconciliation Council for Hungary was established.
(C) Refine labor components of   C. 1.  Develop labor market modeling techniques for   The complex model system was worked out by 1994 by
social policies to improve            restructuring; regional, economical and          a central unit responsible for the organization and
efficient functioning of the labor    infrastructural development                      analysis of forecasts. The forecasting period was
market                                                                                 modified to cover the years 1994 to 2010. The
nomenclature was also revised. These will form the
basis of occupational and educational policy especially
for higher education. The national and international data
base makes it possible to prepare newer and more in-
_______________________  ___ ________________________________   depth analyses that make the results more accurate.
-12-



C.2.  Improve cost-effective utilization of the        Series of special studies has established the
Employment Fund by introducing regional         effectiveness of various employment initiatives and their
evaluation, planning and budgeting techniques   cost effectiveness and system are in place for monitoring
and sharing information. In addition the MOL
participated in a regional study of active labor programs.
(D) Assist displaced workers and  D. I   Expand occupational & educational information,    Integrated automated career information service is
youth find employment by              including developing an automated career         operational in employment centers, vocational schools
improving employment services         information system                               and adult training facilities linked to the national system
of job classification
D.2   Develop, with a consortium of Higher Education   Major university provides school counselor programs on
Institutions, short courses and college, graduate/  ongoing basis. Undergraduate throughout averaging at
post-graduate programs for labor office and school  30 per year plus another 40 per year taking counseling
counselors                                      as a second degree
D.3   Refine and expand job search materials for labor    Published. Electronic search materials are available with
office clients and provide training to labor office    training via job clubs etc.
staff
-13-



Improve Adult Training
Main Performance Indicators          Actions                                        Result
(A) Develop national initiatives   A. 1. Develop National Training Council management    As a result of the 1993 Vocational Training Act, this is
and services to support adult        and planning systems                           now called the "National Council for Vocational
training and retraining                                                             Training" providing the Minister with advice and
making decisions on the budget of the Vocational
Training fund.
A.2.  Define procedures for                          Completed. Procedures for the production of modules
(a) job analysis,                              (their standards) validation and distribution are in
(b) skill testing and                          operation.
(c) development of modular training materials for
adult basis and vocational training programs
A.3.  Define and implement, special studies and support  Active labor market measures are continuously
systems to determine cost effectiveness of adult  monitored for effectiveness throughout the system based
training and employment programs               on models, and established by special studies.
Investigations were made into anomalies.
Current training cost in permanent training centers is
approximately US$ 4 per person per day.
60% of trainees are over 25 years old showing bias to
re-training and skill updating.
At the end of 1995, 39% of the programs operating
conforned to the national (OKJ) quality certificate level.
Accreditation exists at each center for other programs.
(B) Provide improved adult     B.1.  Develop and implement administrative systems and  Completed and operational. All training centers and
employment and training              plan for RLDC/ RATCs                           Ministry interlinked on computer network for exchange
services in up to 10 regions                                                        of information (programs) statistics. 9 fixed site training
centers were developed with a capacity of 3400 places
and with an additional 800 places available from mobile
facilities. 1996 throughout 29,342 students on 1201
different programs varying from one week to six
_nmonths. 96 % of the trainees completed the programs.
-14-



The people trained in RLDSs formed three groups: (i)
Unemployed people who received training through the
employment services, where the placement rate was
55% after 3 month of the completion and 70% after a
year. ' (See footnote), (ii) Employee of companies
received customized training where the placement rate
was 100%. (iii) Individuals who paid for the training,
with a placement rate significantly higher than in case of
unemployed people. The funding of RLDCs comes
from 2 big sources: (i) state direct funding, about 30%
(ii) income from the courses 68%. (The Labor Service
and MOL order about 60%, firms and individuals about
8%.) As the state direct funding does not exceed 30%
and the main part of the income comes from courses, the
operation of training centers is fully sustainable.
B.2.  Develop and implement modular basic education    Completed and operational.
and foreign language programs
B.3.  Develop and implement customized quick-start   In operation via this project and bilateral efforts
vocational training procedures and programs    operated on demand. Staff trained to respond. Actions
include work in electronics/ machinery/ clothing/ food/
building and for Italian; Dutch; American and
Hungarian joint ventures. Training took place at the
workplace and/or the training center.
B.4.  Develop and implement core modular vocational    914 modules developed to date and are produced on a
training programs                              continuous basis to meet changing labor market/ skill
development demand.
B.5.  Develop and implement small business technical    Introduced at all locations and is integrated into a wide
assistance programs                            range of other programs. To date 401 small businesses
were established after entrepreneur training and directly
Experimental Design Study, made in 1998, shows that the placement rate of match pairs (without training) of trained people was 10-20% lower.
-15-



related to the activities of the training centers.
B.6.  Develop and implement counselinig and placement  In operation at all centers.
programs
(C) Iniitiate short tern vocational  C.1.  Develop criteria for identification and selection  31 mobile training units are in operation in areas of
training in isolated areas with       mobile training programlis                      identified need and in areas not covered by permanenit
higih unemployment                                                                    facilities.
Improve Youth Education and Training
Main Performance Indicators           Actions                                         Result
(A) Develop a revised national    A. 1.  Develop a revised model for Hungariani Secondary   6 new academic curricula developed.
model for secondary vocational        Vocational Schools addressing:                  13 new vocational curricula developed.
schools to promote increased          (i) basic education,                            Bilingual training in Hungarian/ English and Hungarian/
occupational and career choice        (ii) vocational training,                       German established and operational.
(iii) bilingual training and                    Career counseling available at all schools via computer
(iv) career counselinig                         based system.
79 schools reforned all with the 6 academic curricula
and 161 vocational curricula.
7 teacher training colleges runining the new programs for
retraining and production of new teachers
2 media centers established for the production of support
material for the new curricula
100 other secondary vocational schools voluiitarily
adopted the new curricula even when not supported by
the project
79 other schools supported by a parallel project and 135
schools will be supported by a follow on project
(B) Develop revised curriculums  B. 1.  Develop revised vocational curricula, including  Eventual choice was limited to 13 vocational job
software and hardware requirements for (15)     faimiilies and new curricula developed.
vocational specialties                          Teaching and stidenit materials developed and made
available via the two media centers.
-16-



Equipment specifications to meet the needs of the
curricula were developed and equipment procured,
installed and commissioned
B.2.  Develop revised and new basic education         7 new basic curricula developed and is operational in all
curriculum, including software and hardware     schools.
requirements for seven (7) basic education      Equipment specifications to meet the needs of the
curriculums                                     curricula were developed and equipment procured,
installed and commissioned
(C) Implement new curriculums   C. 1.  Obtain and install software & equipment and train   All equipment supplied. installed and commissioned.
in project centers-sclhools           staff to use new basic education curriculums    Local staff trained in its use via internationial
fellowships/ local training/ suppliers
Higher Education Program
Main Performance Indicators           Actions                                         Result
(A) Higher Education Reform     A. I. Create a funding agency for competitive investment The Catching-up-with Higher Education in Europe Fund
funding                                         was established in 1991.
A.2.  Organize competition among HEls to obtain funds   In 4 competition rounds 773 general and foreign
for introduction new programs, improve          language applications were judged and 303 were
collaboration, integrate research and teaching  awarded funding.
A.3.  Introduction of normative financing             The law on normative financing was passed in 1996
A.4.  Increase average staff/student ratio            The staff/student ratios were increased from 1:5 to 1:8,5.
(B) Foreign Language Training    B. 1.  Establish the 3 year one major English and Gernan  3 year one major teacher training was established in 8
teacher training                                institutions.
B.2.  Form restructured or new units/departments of
applied linguistics
B.3.  Retrain teachers of Russian languages (provide  More than 2000 such teachers were retrained into
__ ___  system of retraining)                         mainly teachers o English and German.
B.4.  Create self access language labs promoting      46 such units were created and upgraded in 40
individual studies, to increase the number of   institutions.
students
-17-



Science and Technology Research
Main Performance Indicators         Actions                                        Results
(A) Young Scientists Program  A.1.  Organize grants through OTKA to young (under    Young scientists submitted 348 applications for study
35) scientists                               tours and scholarships, and out of them 241 were spent
846 months abroad. The most important destinations
were: USA, England, Italy, France, Netherlands. (42%
of the rewarded scientists worked in Hungary, 42%
abroad and 16% left their profession.). 396 applications
were submitted for instruments, and out of them 154
were awarded.
(B) Scientific Instrumentation  B.1.  Organize funding competition for instrument  From 891 applications of instrument centers, 318 were
Centers                             centers                                        awarded with the help of new instruments 2645
publications were produced, from which 1772 in
international journals.
(C) R & D Computer Network    C. 1. Connect more universities and research institutes to  446 institutions and more than 1,500 users were
(IIF)                               the international network                      connected to the network, and use it continuously. The
number of hosts has increased from 5,000 to 60,000
(1,200%) since 1994. Hungary is a member of the TEN-
34 consortium with 10 Mbps international connection.
The capital has 30-155 Mbps high speed links and the
country regions have 128 kbps-l Mbps leased lines. The
high speed connections are based on ATM technology.
-18-



Table 6A: Project Costs
Presentation of appraisal estimates follows the format shown in the SAR or President's
Report (for adjustment loans), and actual results are given for each item to facilitate
comparison.
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                     (US$M)
Item                        Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs               costs   costs
1. Goods
(a) for Adult Training         8.8       23.2      32      10.6      16.1   26.7
(b) for other parts ofthe     35.3       92.8   128.1   140.1       108.8  248.9
Project
2. Consultants' services       6.1       11.9      18      83.0     10.70  108.1
3. Fellowships & research      1.8       22.1    23.9               14.37
4. Construction               92.3          0    92.3    48.9           0   48.9
*
5. Staff, Operate. &          45.5         0    45.5    23.2            0   23.2
Maintenance                                                 **
* The actual construction cost was less than planned, due to the fact that for RLDCs the government
refurbished existing building, instead f new constructions, and 7 new centers were built, however the plan
was 10 new centers.
* * The actual costs are lower, as in many cases instead of the staff, consultants were used.
Table 6B: Project Financing
Presentation of appraisal estimates follows the format shown in the SAR or President's
Report (for adjustment loans), and actual results are given for each item to facilitate
comparison. If SDR are used, the exchange rate with the U.S. dollar is provided.5
Appraisal estimate (USSM)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                Local costs  Foreign costs  Total  Local costs  Foreign costs  Total
IBRD                           0            150    150            0           150    150
GOVT                        189.8             0   189.8       293.2             0  293.2
Total                       189.8           150  339.8        293.2           150  443.2
* Data to be obtained from Implementing Agency.
-19-



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement        Section       Covenant type   Present   Original    Revised       Description of covenant            Comments
status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
IBRD -33130  Sched. l/Para.    Financial          C      03/31/1991              Govt. to adopt budget for    In compliance.
3(b)                                                               NTC; set up 4 regional
training boards with
guidelines.
Sched. 5/Part A,  Project           C                              Govt. to provide adequate    In compliance.
para. I (a)      implementation                                    staffing for execution of the
arrangements                                      project.
Sched. 5/Part a,   Monitoring/      C      01/31/1991              Monitor labor market each    Started surveys and
para. I(a)       reviews                                           quarter with unemployment    continuing.
survey.
Schedule 5       Financial          C      11/30/1991              Govt. to furnish budget of   In compliance.
NTC each year.
Sched. 5/Part B,  Sector policy,    C      12/31/1991              Govt. to submit legislation on   In compliance.
paras I (a) & (b)  regulatory                                      autonomy of universities,
change                                            Academy of Science.
Sched. 5/Part B    Financial       CD      12/31/1991     1996     Govt. to introduce normative    Universities now awarding
financing of higher education   research degrees. Normative
and new system of degrees.    financing systems under
review by government. First
stage of implementation (50%
normative financing) began
March 1996.
Sched. 5/Part B,   Monitoring/      C      06/30/1992              Govt. to conduct study of cost  In compliance.
para 3.         reviews                                            recovery and revenues in
higher education.
-20-



Note on Table 7. are based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.
Covenant types:
Accounts/audits:                          Monitoring/reviews
Cofinancing                               Procurement
Consultation                              Project implementation arrangements
Cost recovery/pricing                     Remedies
Counterpart funding                       Resettlement
Dam safety                                Sector policy conditionality: administrative change
Disbursement definitions/conditions       Sector policy conditionality: budgetary/allocative
(including special account)                                       change
Engineering                               Sector policy conditionality: regulatory change
Environmental                             Sector policy conditionality: other studies/technical
Facilities maintenance                                            assistance
Financial                                 Subproject/subloan criteria and procedures
General Conditions                        Subsidiary agreements
(section 1.01 of the Loan or Credit Agreement)
Institutional (involving other than project coordination units)
Present status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC =not complied with
6. If the covenant is complied with only partially or not at all, the reason is provided.
-21-



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned        Revised        Actual
Stage of project cycle               Weeks I US$  I Weeks  US$  Weeks  US$
Preparation to appraisal                    Data no available          78.8  177.8
Appraisal                                   Data no available          20.8  49.1
Negotiations through Board approval         Data no available           6.9   17.5
Supervision                                 Data no available         183.4  435.8
Completion                                 9   18.2                      2    3.6
TOTAL                                      9   18.2                   291.9  638.8
-22.-



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Borrower's contributions to the ICR
A. MINISTRY OF LABOR, HUNGARY
Project execution and operation
Youth Training Component
What was planned.
1.     This is described under Part I (Task Managers' report).
What was achieved
2.     A Dutch company was contracted to provide specialized consultancy and arrange
fellowships. A local Hungarian company was retained as procurement consultants.
3.    In consultancy, there was a planned 293 man months and 230 were used. 67 consultants
were involved with only 6 replaced during the life of the project. 53 man months were utilized for
developing vocational curricula; 31 man months were used to develop educational curricula. The
AV centers used 8 man months, national staff training 23 man months, bi-lingual training 9 man
months, job analysis 7 man months, international panel 4 man months and project management 42
man months.
4.    In fellowships, there was a planned 276 man months. By a re-allocation of funds from
consultancy this figure was increased to 354 man months. 969 persons were able to travel abroad
and attend programs. The fellowships were to 11 countries. In the early stages of the project the
fellowships were mainly orientational and in later stages more theme specific. It was realized by all
that the education systems being observed were more practically orientated, more linked to reality
and the needs of the labor market with good linkages between education and businesses.
5.     Vocational curriculum  development. The method selected for implementation was a
"bottom-up" approach in strong contrast with the previous centrally planned approach. One
disadvantage was that those chosen to develop the new curricula had no previous experience of
developing/ designing curricula. This problem was addressed by workshops on methodology and
procedures and with a software package developed for the purpose. Linkages were established
between the academic and vocational curricula development groups and contents. Curriculum
development concentrated on a 3 step approach: (i)orientation and initial development; (ii) teaching
environment; (iii) evaluation and assessment. The groups were supported by experts who advised on
procedures and content matter. The structure and design of the new curricula are in line with
-23-



Appendix A
modem educational principles and a standardized approach. The experts advising the groups visited
them on average twice per year and from 2 to 4 weeks each time. The new vocational curricula was
implemented in September 1993 and concentrated more on innovation, questioning and the
development of higher cognitive skills to produce trainable, adaptable and innovative people.
6.     The academic curriculum development started about 1 year behind the vocational groups.
Various levels of general subject curricula were produced in order to cater for the various entrance
levels of students and the different specializations of the schools. This has lead to the development
of 25 different general curricula covering the 7 subjects. Most of these have modules so that
teachers can select in addition to the core curriculum.
7.    In summary, between 5 to 35 Hungarian teachers were involved with curriculum
development for each subject making a total of about 600 teachers drawn from the 79 participating
schools. They met every 2/3 months and sometimes included members from the industry. The
curricula are subject to continuous review and evaluation and continued collaboration with industry.
8.     There are 2 AV centers, an inventory of equipment and capacity was made and the
formnulation of tasks, functions and responsibilities was decided as well as delivery of services. The
Budapest center concentrates on CD-i and CD-ROM production and Vep center on video and
printed matter. Both centers would be information centers for multi-media material, production
centers for teaching aids and advisory centers for multi-media hardware utilization.
9.     National staff training, meant assistance to the national institutes in teacher training to a
model in line with the newly designed vocational education system. 6 institutes initially participated
for 7 subjects. Currently there are 12 institutes participating covering 12 specializations. One subject
"Public health/ Social care" remains to be placed. Initially technical assistance concentrated on the
pedagogical part of the curriculum.
10.   Intensive language training, courses were arranged for teacher training institutes to raise
the level of English and German, based on foreign resource material, and to teach part of the
program through the medium of English or German. These institutes have to accept responsibility
for the teaching of languages to the next generation of young Hungarians who will be looking for
work in the new economic environment.
11.    Bi-lingual training, was to equip teachers in vocational subjects with the methods, skills
and knowledge to conduct part of their subject teaching in a foreign language. Courses were
attended by 42 specialized teachers and 31 man months were spent on fellowships.
12.   Job analysis, was to support career counseling and to advise curriculum development
groups on trends and developments. Participants were introduced to two software packages;
VOCAN (for vocational analysis) and SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences). Final job
profiles and combinations of job profiles were made and linked with relevant background
information.
13.    Equipment specification, was needed to link the needs of the curriculum to the budget
allowance of between US$ 100,000 and US$ 250,000 which was procured predominantly via
international competitive bidding. In the later stages of the project reference books were obtained to
support the school libraries and teacher resource centers.
-24-



Appendix A
14.   The International Expert Panel was to bring together a team of experts from different
professional backgrounds and various countries to discuss and advise on project matters. Themes
covered included: the relationship between vocational education and the labor market; employment/
unemployment issues; adult education; and re-training centers.
Summary
15.   969 Hungarian teachers, school representative, teacher training  colleges, media
development, local authorities etc. participated in study visits and training programs. In 1993, the
CSO reported graduates from primary schools had an unemployment rate of 19%, apprentice
schools 15%, Grammar schools 10% but secondary vocational schools was only 6%. There is an
increased popularity for secondary vocational schools. In 1990 this was 28% of the student
population and by 1994 it was 33%. The World Bank model secondary schools are popular with
parents and score highest on the ratio of application to places. There were also many "follow on
schools", which despite lack of financial support from the project decided to follow and utilize the
developed curricula. In total these numbered 170 vocation schools. For the revamped academic
subjects more that 300 schools adopted the new curricula. By mid-1997, when the first full cycle of
the 4 year revised program will be finalized 15,000 students will have benefited from the new
curricula. A PHARE program sponsored by the European Union follows the new/ revised curricula,
supporting another 79 schools. Further work need to be accomplished in:
(a) - making the schools responsive to changing market conditions; and
(b) continued development of the educational system for specialized years to come after
the present 4 years of development.
16.   The Dutch consultancy company, after an uncertain and shaky start in the first year, rallied
and delivered a quality service with good results in technical, financial and management areas.
It is possible therefore to state that the purposes of the loan were achieved for Youth
Training.
Adult Training Component
What was planned.
17.   This was described under Part 1 (Task Manager's report). The project intended to support
regional training boards in up to 10 regions with a training capacity of about 16,500 training places
annually by 1995 assuming an average of 6 months duration per program. This would meet about
20% of estimated adult training needs in 1995. The project planned 11 I man months of fellowships
and 105 man months of consulting services. Because of the changing labor market during the life of
the project, there was a reduced number of permanent major training centers and increased numbers
of mobile training centers offering a more limited range but closer to the point of need and which
moved on as the priorities changed.
What was achieved
18.    An Irish/ Canadian joint venture organization of consultants was contracted to provide
technical assistance in the areas of specialized consultancy and arranging fellowships. A local
Hungarian company was retained as procurement consultants.
19.   The National Training Council was established and became functional in 1992 until its
replacement in I Jan 1996 the National Vocational Training Council. Its members include
government, employers, employee representatives, local municipalities and various chambers. It
-25-



Appendix A
advises the Minister on matters relating to vocational training and decides on the budget for
vocational training and meets every 5-6 weeks.
20.    Procedures for job analysis, skill testing and modular training materials. This was
assisting the new labor market training department of the National Institute of Vocational Education
and: operating guidelines were drafted and approved; job descriptions were prepared for 3 key
positions (curriculum development coordinator; professional development coordinator; computer
operator for data base development). Training was conducted in "job analysis"; "competency based
training"; "program review"; "team building". Training packages were delivered such as "time
management"; "strategic planning"; "human resources management".
21.    Evaluation management, accreditation procedures etc. By the end of 1995, 39% of
programs being provided by the training centers were eligible to award the nationally recognized
OKJ qualification certificate. An altemative certification system exists for areas not yet covered by
the OKJ for a further 57% of trainees. The 1993 Vocational Law listed professions or skill areas
eligible for the award of the OKJ certificate. This provided an opportunity for adults to gain
qualifications which included assessment of prior leaming. Links have to be made for the
intemational recognition of these standards.
22.   Implementation of administrative systems and plans for adult training centers. All
training centers in the project are set up and are operational. The management information and
control system for trainees administration and for financial administration are in process of
development. Training programs for center management down to section heads was successfully
completed by consultancy and fellowships.
23.    Analysis of training needs, choice of training direction and training courses. The
training needs and priorities were established for each center to help in its design and equipment
procurement. However with the continued process of privatization and the continuing flow of
foreign investment there is need for continuous (at least annual) review of demands from the
unemployed, for skills upgrading or in-plant training. From this a new training menu can be
developed pro-actively.
24.    Assist in drafting and reconstructing buildings. The Training Centers were established in
existing/ spare building of which the country had many. They were not immediately suitable for
their new use and needed redesign to multiple and changing use. Overall there is general satisfaction
with the buildings and their services.
25.    Assist in specification and choosing equipment A full range of very high tech equipment
is available and consultants were available to aid specifications and take part in the evaluation
procedures. There is general satisfaction with the quality and suitability of most of the equipment
which is comparable to the most modem in the country.
26.   Develop and assist the regional training center implement modular basic programs
and at least one foreign language. Modularized maths and science programs were prepared.
Language training consultants assisted in developing materials and strategies to make language
training more relevant. English language trainers went on fellowships and 'training the trainer'
courses.
-26-



Appendix A
27.    Develop and assist the regional training centers implement customized quick start
programs. A range of 9 different programs have been implemented spread over 5 centers and for
American, Dutch, Italian and Hungarian companies. This has proven to be quite successful and the
activities integrated with a US/AID input. The skill areas included electronics, engineering, clothing,
food and construction. This has been an effective way to establish and strengthen linkages with
industry. The numbers trained were significant ( in 1 00s) and most of them from the unemployed.
28.    Develop and assist regional training centers implement up to 15 different core
modular vocational training programs at all locations. Up to 914 modules have been designed
and prepared in agriculture, electronics, construction, business, informatics, tourism, etc. and at a
series of levels. The Canadian aid program was integrated into this effort, particularly into instructor
training and the original brief has been enlarged to include basic training technology skills for
instructing staff. The modules so developed by local instructors are to European/ International
specifications. All centers seek and accept contract training from industry and non-government
agencies amounting to about 30-40% of their capacity. Developing partnerships with local
industries has increased the placement rates. Institutes of higher education have joined as partners
with the centers in the newly emerged consortia for developing post-secondary OKJ certificate level
training programs.
29.    Develop and establish a series of small business centers at agreed locations A number
of small businesses were established in the regions as a direct result of the entrepreneurial programs.
Known figures are 401 businesses at 5 different locations and the courses are integrated in a wide
variety of other programs and associated activities of PHARE and enterprise centers. The business
courses are popular and demand is high, covering marketing, finance, production, planning, etc. The
types of businesses ranged from farming to small retail operations to service and maintenance of
TVs and domestic appliances and to construction.
30.    Assist in implementing job counseling and placement programs. The notion of job
counseling and placement was new for staff at the training centers. Job clubs are beginning to
appear and much emphasis is placed on interview skills and personality development.
31.   Identification of skills for mobile training programs and assist in implementation. The
need was for a facility to respond quickly and effectively to identified need at local level. The
necessary equipment was identified. Agreements have been concluded with partners in all regions
for the delivery of 32 mobile training programs.
Summary
32.    The foundation of the regional training center system compares well with longer established
systems in more developed situations. The 8 main centers involved at this stage have a capacity for
about 2,500 persons at one time, have an average utilization of 60+% and a placement average of
approximately 58%. The Budapest Labor Market Intervention Center acts as a managing and
coordinating agent for the development of adult training programs in a wide range of institutions in
the Budapest area. Approximately one third of clients are under 24 years old with 25% of these with
only primary education (or less). About 25,000 clients were helped in 1996. with a job placement
rate of 60%.
33.    The Irish consultancy company was consistent throughout, delivering good, flexible,
responsive services in technical, financial and management areas.
-27-



Appendix A
Central Statistics
What was planned
34.    This was described in Part I (The task Manager's report).
What was achieved
35.    An international agency was contracted to provide technical assistance in the areas of
specialized consultancy and arranging fellowships.
36.    Establishment of registration. This was a complex task which would take several years,
one Norwegian consultant was available. Fellowships were used by the CSO, the NLC and the tax
office to gain a common understanding and cooperation in finding solutions to the strategic and
technical problems of establishment registration.
37.    Occupational Employment and Wage survey. One Australian consultant was used who
advised on improvements to the survey instruments, expansion of the survey to cover smaller
companies and extend coverage of larger companies, consolidation and simplification of the number
of surveys etc. to reduce the burden on companies. Fellowships to Australia were attended by the
CSO and NLC. The occupational wage survey is used in the social reconciliation of wage policy.
The labor forecasts use a Swedish model that has proven successful for accurate planning and
directing labor programs.
38.   Consumer price index. Work had alreadci started on the most important elements to
establish methods and procedures for the construction of the actual basket of consumption items and
field work procedures for the collection of prices. Fellowships were arranged directly between the
MOL and providers.
39.   Development of Occupational and Educational Classification Consultancy was
obtained from Australia and fellowships conducted there. There were a number of problems
between the organizations concerned which limited the success.
Summary
40.    While the MOL was satisfied with the individual consultants provided, and with the
conduct of the fellowship programs received, the consultancy contract was terminated since the
consultancy company was consistently delayed in its reporting, did not appear to exert any
management action to make the contract work better, ignored difficulties, and neglected to
communicate.
-28-



Appendix A
Labor Market interventions (1)
What was planned
41.    This was described in Part 1 (The task Manager's report).
What was achieved
42.    A Canadian government agency was contracted to provide technical assistance and
fellowship programs.
43.    Automated career information services. There was joint activity on the development of
an Occupational Handbook and in selecting and adapting aptitude and interest tests. Two volumes
of the handbook were prepared, one for schools, retraining centers, counselors and placement
officers. The second book to be an internal document until CHOICES came on line. Occupational
outlook data was to be produced every 6 months. Norms were established for a range of tests.
44.    Graduate/ post graduate programs in counseling. The aim was to equip a consortia of
higher education institutions to develop suitable programs for the training of counselors. A
vocational handbook had been under preparation for as couple of years before the project started,
describing some 500 jobs. Employment psychologists needed to be trained in the use. 3 colleges
were chosen for implementation. The developed programs were inter-disciplinary and were
psychologically based. There was generally a shortage of support material as this was new to
Hungary. Several short courses were held and support materials provided in Hungary and
fellowships were in Canada in employment offices, schools, universities and support materials were
provided.
45.    Short courses for employees for the staff of employment offices including placement
officers aimed at improving their skills. The training was implemented over 3 years, some in
Hungary and some in Canada. A second activity was the training of employment center
management on the changing of public service, modes of coping and continuous learning, improved
services to clients, supervisory and management skills.
46.   Job search/ job finding clubs had been initiated by the MOL and the project built on this.
The result was a successful program with a leaders manual and initial results were that 76%
attendees found jobs and 34 otherjob clubs formed.
47.    CHOICES (the automated career choice program) was selected for implementation
throughout the country in employment centers, schools and colleges. There were some delays as the
finished product had to await the production of the Occupational Classification Handbook.
48.    Labor adjustment service. There were many problems in developing this service and
there was a delay until an acceptable strategic plan was revised. Consultancy services and
fellowships took place but there were problems as the role was not clearly spelled out and private
sector partners and unions were uncertain and suspicious of the activities. This was the least
successful of the activities.
Summary
49.    This consultancy organization provided a reasonable service throughout and provided some
experience staff but the service could have been much improved if the staff had received some prior
training in consultancy skills as clearly technical skills alone were inadequate.
-29-



Appendix A
Labor market interventions (2)
What was planned
50.    This was described in Part I (The task Manager's report).
What has been achieved
51.    A US government agency was contracted to provide technical assistance and fellowships.
52.    Labor market analyses, this was the further development of a system for monitoring the
effectiveness of active labor programs and related information systems for employment including
the cost effectiveness of employment fund programs via a system of performance indicators for
active labor market programs. This was followed by training for the persons involved.
53.    Labor Market modeling involved: the development of an adjustment methodology for
performance indicators; a proposal for a budget allocation model which incorporates program
performance as a factor; development of a seasonal adjustment methodology for labor market time
series; development of methods for estimation of local area unemployment statistics.
54.    Household surveys. Seminars were held on the use of household surveys for the collection
of labor force data and the alternatives of multipurpose household surveys and establishment
surveys. There was the establishment of an occupational information coordination committee to
address labor market issues.
55.    Occupational wage survey medium  and long term  employment forecasting was
considered with the development of skills to analyze and evaluate forecasts and publish results.
56.    Consumer price index considerations were given to the organization of the forecasting
effort, staffing and the way in which such forecasts could be presented and the role of historical
data.
57.    Development of Occupational classification a detailed formulation of methods needed for
development of a forecast and replacement needs was considered and was a review of problems in
the system.
58.    Matrix The program was designed to strengthen the ability to produce, analyze human
resource statistics including the projection of work force demand, including methods, techniques for
economic projections, labor supply, industry and occupational supply demand.
The consultancy organization provided suitable consultants but- the organization itself suffered
management, communication, reporting and invoicing problems throughout.
Conclusions
59.    Why has the Hungarian "Human Resources Development Project" been a success?
The following factors appear to be significant:
(a) Stability
The Secretary of State, the Deputy Secretary of State, all project implementation managers
and all key personnel, have remained continuously in post from project planning and
negotiation to completion. This has resulted in consistency of understanding and practice
throughout.
-30-



Appendix A
(b) Responsibility
Clear lines of responsibility were established at an early stage of the project between the
implementation divisions, the coordination division and the finance division. A steering
committee was established chaired by the Secretary of State and the PCU was the
secretariat. This proved a mechanism for ironing out vague or overlapping areas of action
and as a shared learning experience and information sharing.
(c) Full and continuous support from the government.
Supply of local matching funds, staffing of the project, provision of support facilities etc.
This continued over changes of government and ministers. There has never been any delay
or diversion of any of the project activities due to inadequate local funds.
(d) Procurement
Contracting out to a specialist firm to work in close association with the Ministry. This
meant a high start on the learning curve and enabled the procurement allocation to be met in
the project time frame.
(e) Liaison with the World Bank
Regular, monthly reporting/ coordination/ information sharing meetings between the staff
of the World Bank and the PCU contributed to smooth progress. These where additional to
all the usual correspondence on project matters. Consistency in Task Managers in that there
were only 2 during the life of the project and in both cases there was a high degree of
empathy with the project, the problems of implementation, and they acted as a source of
advice and information.
(f) Cooperation
- between the implementation units/ schools/ local authorities etc. was achieved.
(g) Plans and schedules
Having plans and schedules in place which were broadly kept to.
(h) Consultants
Willingness by all parties to take advice and to act on it. Collaborative not competitive
when there were problems with some consultancy companies the matter was dealt with
promptly and not allowed to drag on.
(i) Strong support from the top by well informed top management
The formation and regular meetings of the Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of
State, kept everyone informed. It also demonstrated top management commitment to
moving the project along in the agreed direction.
Some learned lessons
60.    On the educational side of the project. The long time to write new curricula, and from the
curricula to develop the new equipment lists are drawn up This meant that the bulk of the
procurement had to start quite late in the life of the project. This is a problem since the bulk of the
funding cannot be used until a late stage and any slippage in the prior activities would mean the
project finishing with some of the funds unspent.
61.   Staffing. Most of the project staffing was drawn from persons who were doing this kind of
project for the first time and so there was a low and long learning curve. The youth program had a
full time consultant project manager which was a benefit, but the adult program had no full time
consultant equivalent and would have benefited from the same.
-31-



Appendix A
62.   Technical assistance. There were some problems in the initial stages of the project in the
working relationships between Ministry personnel and consultancy staff of some organizations.
There was a period of learning for both groups concerning working methods. Only in one
international case and one local case did the relationship breakdown to such an extent that the
contract was terminated.
63.   Consultancy management. There was a general feeling, that in some cases, organizations
representing international or national organizations had entered into commitments at a top level and
then passed responsibility for implementation to others lower down the organization for whom the
contracted activities just represented extra work for them and this created difficulties to obtain
implementation as these competed with their routine work.
64.   World Bank Task management was fair and supportive with advice and prompt in their
actions. In the case of two Italian banks who would not honor and settle their "irrevocable and
unconditional guarantees" it was found that Washington's procurement and legal departments
distanced themselves from the problem and appeared unconcerned with their clients dilemma. The
least we expected was Washington to act as "honest broker", but were disappointed.
-32-



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3313-HU)
Borrower's contributions to the ICR
I. HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH COMPONENT
Objectives
To improve the responsiveness of higher education to the new technological and managerial
demands of a market economy and to promote foreign language competence so as to expand intemational
economical and technological ties as follows:
(a) to develop higher education, to the standards of the more developed countries and accelerate
the process of making universities centers of basic research, and to assist colleges in
performing duties of higher level training;
(b) to support economic restructuring, by upgrading the contents, management and structure off
higher education; and
(c) to promote integration among college and university education and research, to encourage the
overall development of higher education.
Benefit.
2.     The total disbursement through this program was US$67 million out of which about 10% was
spent on technical assistance and study tours. The contribution of the Hungarian government was an
additional HUF 10 billion.
3.    These amounts helped higher education catch-up with modern education systems, made resources
available to regenerate university research activities, created close professional collaboration between
colleges and university, developed the information infrastructure and made the purchase of instruments
more efficient through a coordinated procurement process.
4.    The main points of these general benefits are as follows:
(a) contribution to the increase in student enrollment (80% increase from 1991 to 1997) through
educational infrastructure development and promoting new studies;
(b) fast entering of the higher education institutions into the" Information Society" (50% of the
procurement money was spent on computers and networking equipment.);
(c) substantial qualitative and quantitative increase in the area of educational and research
infrastructure (80% of the funds were spent on projects involving this part of the
development process);
(d) some promotion in the reform of the higher education system in Hungary; and
(e) reform of the foreign language teacher training program.
-33-



Appendix B
5.    As most of the involved institutions, the internal cooperation between different training units, and
between the university administration and the training units was improved. The project offices, different
university development committees started the thorough review and negotiation of the university, faculty
and college development activities. The coordination of procurement gradually became more efficient by
assistance of the project offices, which resulted in significant savings.
6.     This program contributed to the more general introduction of multi-grade training by making the
differences between the core and special training clearer through differentiating the development
activities, and by motivating the involved parties to perform feasible and well considered tasks.
7.    The program  promoted close professional cooperation between several higher education
institutions, as well as between higher education institutions and academic research institutes. These
efforts led to a more flexible and more transparent education system which was implemented through the
jointly established and used laboratories and instruments. In some cases, the cooperation was beneficial
because of the increase in student enrollment.
8.    The methodological cooperation, training transfer and the established constant working
relationships are all important segments of higher education and research that serve the interests of
students and teaching staff and improve the standard of activities.
9.     One of the direct impacts of the program was the development of information infrastructure,
without which the education, research, organization and cooperation tasks could not be performed to an
up-to-date standard.
10.   Another achievement is the establishment of university and college associations. Partnerships
formed that have increased the efficiency of the institutional system and provided opportunity for re-
structuring that have inevitably created ownership of the program. Taking the opportunities provided by
the legal regulations, the institutions became familiar with the benefits and pitfalls of their joint activities
and, consequently, their experiences can provide help in the modification of the relevant legal framework.
Relationship with the World Bank
11.   The contact between the Bank and the management staff of the program was between the WB
Regional Office in Budapest and CEF secretariat (FEFA).
12.   This working contact was fair and without major problems. The close collaboration between the
parties helped in the good utilization of the experiences of WB practice. The system and standard of
control were appropriate: the same guidelines were used in the competition process in the institutions,
and similar financial, procurement and disbursement rules were applied for the utilization of both the WB
and the national component of the budget.
13.   The control over most of the individual projects was kept to FEFA (there was no direct control by
the WB, except the ICBs and DCs procedures), which saved time in the procurement processes and made
them more flexible. Common appraisal systems were used in the selection of criteria and the evaluation
procedures. The world wide respect of the WB helped to get the institutions to follow these rules in the
different stages of the implementation process.
-34-



Appendix B
II. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPONENT (OTKA)
Objectives
14.   The project was to strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of OTKA to improve the
training of research scientists and engineers as well as the quality of research by:
(a) upgrading and expanding the network of scientific instrument centers;
(b) developing the national R&D computer network (IIF) used by the academic and industrial
research communities; and
(c) supporting research by young scientists.
15.   The project was supported by US$ 19,250,000 from the loan with an additional US$ 30,000,000
from the Hungarian budget.
Implementation
Instrument centers
16.   Two types of support were introduced in the competition for instrumentation infrastructure
investments:
(a) developing instrument centers (Type A); and
(b) developing laboratories of special scientific interest (Individual Type C)
Statistics on the completion of infrastructure development (A and C)
TYPE                         APPLICATIONS          Acceptance   Loan
Submitted  Accepted  Ratio         Support
Instrument centers (Type A)  353         156       44.20%        US$ 6,219,000
Laboratory Development (Type 538         162       30.10%        US$ 4,226,000
IC )                         I  _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _     I__   _ _    I__  _ _ _ _
TOTAL                        1891        318      +35.70%        USS 10,445,000
The OTKA Committee allocated HUF 500,000,000 from the State budget to augment this program. The
total contribution from all sources was approximately HUF 1,458,000,000.
Computer network (NIIF)
17.   This part of the program was handled by NIIF program office, separately from OTKA. The NIIF
program was supported from 5 different sources; OTKA; OMFB; MTA; MKM and the World Bank.
From the WB loan the NIIF gave US$ 6,682,000 to support the development of a computer network
system for scientific institutions and universities. There were 114 applications, from which 35 were
supported from the loan, so that 46 institutions could get UNIX based client-server computer systems that
supported their network communication jobs.
Young Scientists Support Program (YSSP)
18.   An alternative competition was announced for scientists under the age of 35, in order to carry on
scientific research abroad (by fellowships), to take part in international conferences, or to win support for
scientific instruments. Only qualified scientists having some important publications and speaking at least
one foreign language, could take part in the competition.
-35-



Appendix B
Statistics for the YSSP
OBJECTIVE       APPLICANTS    WINNERS            ACCEPTANCE  LOAN
RATIO           SUPPORT
Fellowships     179              132             73.70%          US$ 1,188,000
Conference      169              113             66.80%          US$ 99,000
Instruments     396              153            138.60%          US$ 1,022,000
TOTAL           744              398             53.50%          US$ 2,309,000
*The overall total includes US$ transferred/reallocated from the MOL budget
All the support in this part of the project have promoted the development of infrastructure and research
activities of young scientists in universities, research institutes, libraries, hospitals etc.
19.   The program has basically achieved its goals:
(a) as an increasingly significant factor of the survival of the local research community in the
period 1992-96, the obsolescence rate of the scientific and informatics infrastructure has been
slowed down significantly;
(b) the program set clear cut objectives and concrete aims which not only eased the use of funds
but also excited an active and valuable contribution from the side of the final user i.e.
researchers;
(c) it was also an important factor that the loan agreement contained a certain budget obligation
from the government to contribute to the program;
(d) the value of the program included the fact that it provided a vital support to that kind of social
sector, which is international well appreciated and prioritized, and which using its
preferences (the Lake Success preferential tariffs, education related price allowances) made
the use of this part of the loan very effective; and
(e) the program management successfully divided the duties involved in the system of disbursing
the amounts among the different participants in the program e.g. decision makers, applicants,
implementing organization, banking institution, control organization; and has kept track of
the implementation of the program  by its continuously updated records.  In the
implementation process, the adjustment to the changing economic and legal environment
could be solved in a relatively short time by the effective help of the local staff of the WB.
20    Problems arising during the implementation process:
(a) the scientific community had to face some minor problems arising primarily from the special
ways of using the loan and from the new procurement procedures; problems were caused
mainly by the special invoicing of the purchased instruments as well as by the understanding
and harmonizing of the status of the equipment procured.
(b) another problem was caused by financing of rates and taxes against the purchases, especially
because of the fact that 99% of the beneficiaries had a nonprofit financial management
system which did not have enough budgetary support even for their running costs, and in
most cases had great trouble to advance the value added tax.
(c) The successful execution of the program was made even more difficult by the fact that there
was no organization to take the exchange rate risk involved in the procurement process.
-36-



Appendix B
Recommendations
21.    Through several international information meetings at various levels and expert consultations, the
WB could make the implementation of projects even more effective, especially in the field of concrete
execution. It would be very useful to support the activities of an international comparison of the different
project parts as well as providing opportunities for the exchange of ideas and experiences of the members
and staff participating in the particular phases of the implementation. This is in order that the local
problems could be discerned and the internationally accepted quality norms made accountable.
22.    The development of the S&T sector within the national economies of countries in similar
situations is going on at a more moderate rate than that of other sectors of the economy. This explains the
high importance of sources which do not immediately burden the state budget, and so their financial
impact will appear only in a later period, moreover the independence of the distributing process of the
support funds might be better facilitated in the case of an international source. In other words, funds not
burdening the annual budget directly are easier to obtain than amounts or re-allocations of budgetary
funds burdening other sectors of the state budget. This holds true especially for scientific research and
educational institutions as non-profit public utility organizations.
-37-



