I )k t'c Iu "c' w I 
'1 11   \')1'( 1iir1crk
he W\orld Banlk
1 0R 011 1( I U I  SI  0\1 O
,I                          / L                  /  !
Ht'port NO. t1 I t' i -lIi 
S 1.' i-:' IR   S ;H  RlPO)h1I
Hl"Ai\ ii 5(ol R(.1 S  l'RO.JEC1
b\<ARCH         1 9(1 I
(''U'"t 1-\ ')cp.irt'"QIt I V.
1;1:'.':' l-  I I r (- v-       i v     i   IsI
!. r0pIr ,  \i (ld Ie  I . I t  ;ni  i(orthi .\  1 r i c;   RegioT
Ihis document has a rcstricted  distrihution and ma% he used h! recipient%  onl. in the performance of
their (fficial dutics.  Its eontent%  n.1% no't  Ither"i isc  he disclosed 'Aithout \\Orld  Bank authori,ation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   CYl987'      CY1988'      CY1989?      CY1990    CYl991
US$1            146 971 Ft.  50.1413 Ft.  60.800 Ft.  62.000      11.000
1 Forint (Ft.) US$0.02]      US$ 0.02C   US$0.(16    L'S$0.0161  LS$0. il41
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEF     -   Catching-up-with-Higler-Education-in-Europe Fund
CMEA    -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
COCOM   -  Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
CSO     -   Central Statistical Office
CSP     -   Council for Scientific Policy
FL      -   Foreign Language
GCSE    -  General Certificate of Secondary Education
GNP     -   Gross National Product
GOH     -   Government of Hungary
HAS     -   Hungarian Academy of Sciences
HE      -  Higher Education
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IIF     -  National. R & D Computer Networ'k
IMF     -   International Monetary Fund
IRP3    -   Third Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3020-lIU)
MOE     -  Ministry of Culture and Education
MOL     -  Ministry of Labor
NEM     -  New Economic Mechanism
NCFL    -   National Council for Foreign Language
NOICC   -  National Occupational Information Coordination Council
NTC     -  National Training Council
OECD    -   Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
OMFB    -   State Office of Technology Development
OTKA    -  National Scientific Research Fund
RLDC    -  Regional Labor Development Center
RTB     -  Regional Training Board
SPC     -   Science Policy Committee
STR     -   Scientific and Technological Research
SWLO    -   State Wage and Labor Office
SZTAKI  -  The Computer and Automation Institute of the HAS
VGMK    -   Intra-enterprise business partnerships or work brigades
Period Average
2 Period average covering period January to end-September, 1989.



HUNGARY                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE HUMAN RESOURCES SECTOR AND ECONOMIC REFORM.                                 1
A.  Introduction                                                                1
B.  Economic Background                                                         1
C.  Human Resources Sector Issue                                                2
D.  Government Strategy and Bank Involvement in                                 6
the Human Resources Sector
II.    THE PROJECT.                                                                    9
A.  Project Objectives.                                                         9
B.  Brief Project Description.                                                  9
C.  Details of Project Components                                              10
(1) Employment and Training                                             10
Employment Information and Services                              11
Adult Training                                                   12
Improved Youth Training                                          15
(2) Higher Education and Research Program                               16
Higher Education Reforms                                         16
Foreign Language Training                                        17
Human Resources for Science and Technology Research              19
D.  Environment Impact                                                         21
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION.                                   22
A.  Project Costs.                                                             22
Project Financing                                                     25
B.  Implementation.                                                            26
Implementation of Employment and Training Component                   27
Implementation of the Higher Education and
Foreign Language Components                                         28
Implementation of Science and Technology Research                     29
C.  Procurement.                                                               30
D.  Disbursement.                                                              32
E.  Audits and Reports.                                                        33
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS.                                                            33
V.     AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.                                  35
1/ This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Hungary in October 1990. The
mission comprised M. Boissiere (Education Economist and Mission Leader), D. Fretwell (Employment and
Training Specialist), J. Schweitzer (Principal Educator), S. Sigurdsson (Senior Implementation Specialist)
and Anthony Wheeler (Education Economist). In addition, consultants G. Graves (Foreign Language
Specialist), J. McCullough (Scientific Research Funding Specialist), C. Weiss (Science Policy Specialist)
and S. Wolff (R&D Computer Network Specialist) contributed substantively during preparation of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PageNo
ANNEX I     POPULATION AND LABOR STfIISTICS
TABLE 1.    Population by Sex and Age Group                           37
(January 1988)
TABLE 2.    Comprehensive Fertility Indicators for Hungary            38
(1880-1980)
TABLE 3.    Distribution of Active Earners by                         39
Branches of the National Economy
TABLE 4.    Educational Backgrounds of the Labor Force               40
in Hungary
TABLE 5.    Monthly Basic Wages, Ler Capita Labor Costs              41
to Employers and Actual Earners by Occupation
TABLE 6.    Staff of Public Employment Services per Thousand         41
of Working Age Population (15-64)
TABLE 7.    Economies in  Transition:  Structural Adjustment         42
in OECD Countries
ANNEX II    EDUCATION STATISTICS
TABLE 1.    Er.rollment end Teaching Staff in Education              43
TABLE 2.    Summary Data on Secondary Education Institutions         44
TABLE 3.    Secondary Level Schools/Apprentice Schools               45
TABLE 4.    Adult Vocational Training-Number of Courses              46
TABLE 5.    Adult Vocational Training-Enrollment by County           46
TABLE 6.    Retraining Support by Sector                             47
TABLE 7.    Distribution of Higher Education Institution by Size  48
TABLE 8.    Admission, Application, and Enrollment in                48
Higher Education
TABLE 9.    Student Enrollment, Admission and Applications           49
by Faculty
TABLE 10.   Student Enrollment by Field in Higher Education          50
TABLE 11.   Growth of Student Enrollment by Field                    50
TABLE 12.   Total Number of Staff in Higher Education                51
TABLE 13.   Number of Teaching Staff in Higher Education             51
(1987-88)
TABLE 14.   Comparative Data on Education                            52
(1986 data unless otherwise specified)
TABLE 14.1  Gross Enrollment Ratios Tertiary Education               52
(1987 or latest)
TABLE 15.   Expenditure of Educational Institutions                  53
(Forint Million; Current Prices)
TABLE 16.   Budgetary Expenditure per Student (Ft.)                  54
TABLE 17.   Expenditures for Universities and College                55
Under MOE



ANNEXES (continued)
Page No-
ANNEX III.  SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH STATISTICS
TABLE 1.    Number Of Employees In Research and Development          56
TABLE 2.    Distribution of Scientists and Engineers Engaged         56
in R+D (1989)
TABLE 3.    Percentage Distribution of Scientific Researchers        57
by Age (1972-1980)
TABLE 4.    Allocation of The Hungarian Research Fund (OTKA)         58
(Approved Subsidies 1986-88)
TABLE 5.    Number of Scientists per 10,000 Inhabitants for          58
Selected Countries (1982)
TABLE 6.    Per Capita R+D Expenditure for Selected Countries        59
TABLE 7.    Expenditure for R+D In Selected Countries                59
TABLE 8.    Submitted and Approved Applications of OTKA              60
TABLE 9.    Size Distribution of HAS Research Institutes             60
In Natural Sciences
ANNEX IV.   EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE         61-68
ANNEX V.    CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF CEF PROPOSALS                         69-80
ANNEX VI.   CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR YOUNG SCIENTIST
SUPPORT PROGRAM OF OTKA                                        81-84
ANNEX VII.  CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR THE SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENTATION CENTERS                                        85-92
ANNEX VIII. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ESTIMATED
QUANTITIES AND COSTS                                          93-102
ANNEX IX    STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS                103
ANNEX X     BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MATERIALS IN THE PROJECT FILE                   104



HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
Country Data
Per-Capita GNP (1989)               $2570
Total Population (1990)             10.3 million
Population Growth Rate              -0.1%
Total Labor Force                    4.9 million
Literacy Rate (% of Adults)         98.0%
Enrollments (1989/90)-
Total           Total Enrollment    Female enrollment
Level                      Enrollments    as % of Age-Group    as % of Age Group
Primary                    1,183,600           97%                      97%
Secondary                    483,500           70%                      70%
Higher                        72,400           15%                      17%
Expenditure on Education (1987)
Government expenditure on education as percent   7.6%
of total public spending
Government expenditure on education as percent   4.9%
of GDP



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Pro,ect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Hungary
Amount:            US$ 150 million
Terms:             Fifteen years, including a five year grace period, at the
IBRD standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:        The project would address certain priority human resource
issues which constrain a successful transition to a market
economy. Specific objectives are to: (a) assist unemployed
workers to find jobs and enterprises to find suitable
workers; (b) provide relevant training for youth and adults;
(c) improve the responsiveness of higher education to the
new technological and managerial demands of a market
economy; (d) assist in expanding and reorienting the
training of science and technology researchers; and (e)
promote foreign language competence so as to expand
international economic and technological ties.
Project
Description:       The project includes an Employment and Training Program and
a Higher Education and Research Program.
The Employment and Training Program would: (a) develop
employment information and services to promote labor
mobility; (b) improve occupational training for adults by
providing support for a labor market based training system
with strong links to private and public employers; and (c)
initiate reform of vocational secondary schooling by
developing a new curricula with more general education and
broader training to replace the out-dated and narrow
curricula currently used in vocational schools.
The Higher Education and Research Program would: (a) support
the introduction of competition-based grant funding for
higher eduction programs according to criteria which
emphasize greater collaboration and resource sharing among
institutions of higher education and research and new
interdisciplinary programs; (b) develop a program of
practically oriented foreign language training; and (c)
support development of human resources for Science and
Iechnologv (STE) by earmarking a portion of the competition-



it
based National Scientific Research Fund (OTKA) for younger
researchers, refurbishing the stock and improving the
management of the centers of scientific instrumentation
financed by OTKA, and upgrading the national R&D computer
network (IIF) used by academic and industrial researchers.
The project's major policy actions include: (a) making adult
training more responsive to labor market conditions by
strengthening the recently established National Training
Council, (b) streamlining management of secondary vocational
education and training by reducing the supervisory role of
line ministries, (c) introducing a unified normative
financing system for higher education, and (d) granting more
autonomy to the universities, the Academy of Sciences, and
OTKA.
Benefits
and Risks:         Benefits.  The major benefit woul.d be to promote a quick and
flexible supply response to the economic transformation of
the Hungarian economy. Employment services developed by the
project would alleviate unemployment and assist in
redeployment of labor. Hungary's base of skilled workers
and professionals would be expanded and improved to assist
the country to compete successfully in a European framework.
The project would also improve the national capacity for
research and technological development, with an enhanced
capability to respond to changing market needs.
Risks. The major risks are: (a) that the past fragmentation
in the education and training system has resulted in
bureaucratic vested interests which may try to preserve
their spheres of control and delay implementation; and (b)
newly created agencies would have inadequate experience to
implement major components. The first risk is being
addressed by providing sufficient financing to induce
effective participation and sharing of resources among the
project beneficiaries, while the second risk is being
addressed by incorporating technical assistance to
strengthen institutional performance.



iii
Estimated Projec. costs:
Local   Foreign  Total
-US$ Million --
Improved Labor Programs                            5.5       2.6      8.1
Adult Training Programs                           48.0      19.8    67.8
Improved Youth Training                           30.1      29.9    60.0
Higher Education and Research                     45.7      58.9   104.7
Science and Technology                            30.2      17.8    48.0
Total Base Costs                                 159.5    129.1   288.6
Physical Contingencies                             9.6       7.8    17.4
Price Contingencies                               20.7      13.1    33.8
Total Costs                                      189.8    150.0   339.8
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign  Total
__. -_ =__
----- US$ Million -------
Goverrnent of Hungary                            189.8       0.0   189.8
IBRD                                               0.0    150.0   150.0
Total Financing Requirements                     189.8    150.0   339.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY
FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95    FY96
-----------------US$ million-------------
Annual               20.0       35.0       50.0     40.0      5.0
Cumulative           20.0       55.0      105.0    145.0   150.0
Economic Rate of Return:           Not Applicable



HUNGARY
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
I. THE HUMAN RESOURCES SECTOR AND ECONOMIC REFORM
A. Introduction
1.1       Thie economic transformation of the Hungarian economy needs to be
complemented by an extensive reorientation in the way HungA :y develops and uses
its human resources.   The economic reforms aim at establishing an open and
competitive market economy.    If human resources  are to make their proper
contribution to Hungary's success as a small export oriented economy, then a
number of critical issues must be addressed.  These issues include: coping with
emerging unemployment and redeploying labor to higher productivity uses;
retraining adults for the new skills needed as a result of economic
restructuring; reorienting the narrow and rigid vocational training for youth
in order to develop a more mobile and technically adaptable labor force; and
narrowing the technology gap between Hungary and Western Europe by reforming and
expanding higher education and professional training, especially in the fields
of management and scientific research and development./ The central theme of
this project is the need to redirect human resources investments so as to
maximize their contribution to economic competitiveness.
1.2       Chapter I of this report gives the economic and sector background
to the project, focusing on human resources issues, which if unresolved, will
threaten the success of the economic reforms.   Chapter II describes project
objectives and activities, while project costs, financing and implementation are
discussed in Chapter III. The benefits and risks of the project and the policy
agreements reached with the Government of Hungary (GOH) are set out in Chapters
IV and V respectively.
B. Economic Background
1.3       Hungary is well known among the countries of Central and Eastern
Europe for a sequence of economic reforms, beginning in the late 1950s and
culminating in the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) in 1968, which modified
traditional central planning in an attempt to make it more flexible. The NEM
resulted in economic improvements for a few years. But problems of inflation
and macroeconomic imbalances arose and the pace of reform was uneven in the late
1970s and 1980s. The recent evolution of multi-party democracy has facilitated
the realization that only a complete transition to a market economy -- with
competitive product, capital and labor markets -- would make the economy
internationally competitive and restore economic growth.
J In response to a request from the Government of Hungary (GOH), an extensive
human resources sector review was jointly undertaken by the Bank and the
GOH. The analysis and conclusions of this review are incorporated in the
Bank report, Hungarv: The Transition to a Market Economy -- Critical Human
Resources Issues (Report No. 8665-HU, Green Cover, August 1990).  The report
contains extensive discussion of issues summarized in this chapter.



,11 'llw C(ovtritiitt'iit ', recent  mei-dimn term economic program addresses
it  i ;i i"p t eite lit ing a c ompreheensive  program  to  support
I(I i.   NI i.,l  pri ,;t e  S;v.tor  development,  inlcIuding  direct  foreigr.
,1:1 li .  Ir w4)%(er nment  also;O recogtiizes that the exercise of effective
i jl! .i 1';( ill thiose enterpriseq whiCh are still state-owned Is necessary
tu', the e fiiciveni  of rtsource use.  This will also allow the state
. I,'lliVK; iii r'sttlicturling or closing down insolvent enterprises and in
I .,, ! ,,. vitl' ';h'; i i ;. Thle govertnment is also addressing social safety net
. i.  it  ., j(ilfit  s:(ttidy witth  the  hatik  (see  para.  1.23).    Tthe  import
1II     I .,  ,,! it pin',vatit, which was  iltltiated in 1989 and will be completed in
*  % i I I i iereoase compet it ioi lii the economy and exert strong discipline
ht'l,,tvior of doutestic  firms.   Tthrough further decontrol of prices,
'i;    L,ti; i , of tthe finanicial system, and deregulation, the role of the state
I il to t(lolloi.; will be reduced, while the progressive reduction in taxes and
ii* I ' tit eXpI.'idittures (primarily subsidies) will permit the market to emerge
h., pt itiipal itteans of allocat ing resources.
'Despite the anticipated growth of the private sector, large scale
iii-'wplo\'ietet (see para. 1.7 below), which the government has limited capacity
tvo idd ress, will result from the above measures for the first time since the end
If Wo,rld War 11.  Moreover, new skills will be needed by Hungarian managers,
piofessiouials aiid workers if Hungary is to develop into a competitive open
'(cetiMim.   TI'he twinl pressures  implied by these two developments present a
;"Illdable challenge to the human resources sector.
;. Human Resources Sector Issues
1 6       ETplovment and wages.  The Hungarian labor force was estimated at
1.9 4iillion within a population of 10.3 million in 1988.  The sectoral pattern
'f einploymneTIt has followed the evolution of the sectoral shares of GDP. Hungary
-miharked uponi a stratt-gy of rapid industrialization after 1949 when the socialist
government came to power. Since that time the share of employment in agriculture
Jrop'ped from 54% to 19%, the shares of industry and services rose from 22% to
1% anid from 24% to 40% respectively (see Annex 1 for detailed data on population
.i'd elttploymenit).
l7        Unemployment was not considered a prcblem in the Hungarian labor
nalket utntil quite recently.  Official unemployment statistics are recognized
to he limited only to the registered unemployed. But the staff of the Central
Statistical Office (CSO) and the Ministry of Labor (MOL) unofficially estimate
that, if reliable data on both the registered and not registered unemployed were
available, the unemployment rate would have averaged about 1.5 percent in 1989
ii,d would likely have been about 4 percent in December 1990.   Many state
entterprises have disguised unemployment due to rigidities of the labor market
acid overall economic inefficiencies. Estimates of over-staffing in the state
Cn'ierprise sector range as high as 20 - 30 percent. Import liberalization, loss
;(MEA markets and the restructuring or liquidation of enterprises are expected
:  rive rise to significant increases in open unemployment.   Although it is
n. ilt at this time to forecast reliably the magnitude, simple calculations
i'pori over-staffing scenarios indicate potential unemployment rates could



-3-
peak  in  le,. range of  / to 14 percent  in 1991 and 1992/,  Ulnemployment
compene;t iti.,  luid(ed from the State budget, was introduced in Hungary in 1989.
Legi.si. li(,i luis  been adopted to finance this through payroll taxes on employers
Mt1(t (WIplr¼t'; wittl some State budget contributions as in most OECD economies.
1.8       I:ven greater urgency for the development of employment and training
prOgraillX dw;  well} as higher education expansion and reform derives from the
detttglioiytph i c , which is concentrated now in the secondary school age groups
amid will soon enter higher education and the labor market. This demographic
hkully i;S tlit (()M1.iCquence partly of the fertility promotion policies In the 1960s
aMId 19,Us aid partly of the greater number of women of child bearing age from
the bab, boomI of the early 1950s.  Tightening of policies on abortions in the
19/Os mav.l also have had an impact.
1.9       Economic competitiveness and investments in human copital depend
cruciallv upoIn wage levels which are flexible and upon a wage structure which
is responsive to skill and education.   The previous rigid system for wage
determinitationi hiindered the achievement of these objectives.   Under this old
system, the government determined minimum and maximum wages -- referred to as
wage brackets -- for each occupational group, and enterprise management had some
leeway within these brackets to set wages for individual employees (see Annex
I, Table 5 for data on the wage structure by skill).   This resulted in an
inflexible system with a compressed wage structure which provides insufoicient
incentives to individual investments in human capital in a market economy. Wage
reforms have been introduced by the government to allow managers of enterprises
to determine the structure of wages, subject to taxes on increases in the total
wage bill of the firm to control wage inflation. It is still too early to tell
if these wage reforms will have the desired effects.
1.10      Another striking feature of employment in Hungary is the high labor
force participation rates of women and the contribution this has made to
Hungary's labor force growth.   The female crude activity ratio was 40.7% in
1987, compared to 51.3% for men. Although rising female participation rat-s are
typical of Western European countries, this phenomenon is more pronounced in the
Eastern European countries, mainly because of social policies that promote
generous maternity leaves, child care and family allowance benefits for working
women. As the transition to a market economy proceeds, it is important for the
government to keep in mind the impact on women and their families of the policy
measures to be introduced. Families have come to depend upon two incomes and
women may be more adversely affected by unemployment and in need of retraining.
The proposed project would address this by designing flexible adult training
programs which can meet the special trairing needs of women and the time
constraints they face. The statistical and analytical capacity being developed
in this project will also follow the changing role of women in the labor market
and give the basis for improving training for women.
1.11      Education and Training.   Education is compulsory through primary
school (grade 8) or age 16. About 95% of the pupils continue into one of the
following after completing primary: (a) gymnasia, which are academic secondary
V Ibid., Report No. 8665-HU, Annex I, p.72



- 4 -
schools, (b) vocational secondary schools which offer occupationally specific
as well as; general education, or (c) apprentice schools which offer very
s,pecialized  job  training  (typically  for  three  years)  in conjurnction with
enterprises (see Annex II for detailed statistics on educational enrollments).
1  recent  Y sears the distribution of secondary enrollment has been about 25
pel-CoTlt inl gvmnlasia, 25 percent in vocational secondary schools and 50 percent
ini t he app renit i ce schools.
1.12      The early specialization of youth at age 14 needs to be delayed in
favor of developing more basic education (a minimum of ten years) arid a broader
vocational skills base.  The apprentice schools do not offer genuine apprentice
programns in the traditional sense. Neither do they function as part of a "dual
training svstem" as in the Federal Republic of Germany.   They essentially
provided a cheap labor force to enterprises with some minimal and narrow skill
training of primary school leavers but without providing much general education
and training beyond the primary level. These training programs are increasingly
seen as irrelevant and many young people drop out before completion.   The
vocational secondary school training is also excessively rigid and narrow, the
curriculum being keyed to outdated lists of national vocational specializations.
This will pose problems for future absorption of technology as Hungary attempts
to become more competitive. The proposed project would initiate the necessary
restructuring of training.
1.13      Flexible  training  and  employment  programs  for  adults  in  an
environment conducive to their needs are required to address structural
unemployment problems. The apprentice and vocational secondary schools offer
some education and training programs for young and older adults. But they are
not adequate, either quantitatively or in their approach to adult training, to
meet the challenges of the transition to a market economy. The current programs
follow the standard curricula based upon the outmoded national list of vocations
and operate on the school year calendar, whereas modular programs with open
entry/exit times are needed and would be introd-rced by the project.
1.14      The management of the vocational training system, which is the
product of a planned economy and involves many different line ministries, is
much too cumbersome to respond rapidly to the changes in required skill profiles.
In the past, administrative responsibility for vocational training was shared
between the Ministry of Culture and Education (MOE) at the national level and
the county councils on the local level. MOE was responsible for curriculum and
standards and allocated money from the state budget to the various sectors of
education and training.   The county councils maintained and operated school
facilities within local communities based upon the block grants received through
the MOE allocetion. MOE collaborated with other sectoral ministries and with
the State Wages and Labor Office (SWLO) with respect to vocational training
curriculum and standards. The new Government has established new ministries,
including a new Ministry of Labor which has replaced the SWLO.   Vocational
curriculum development will be directed by the MOL department in charge of
vocational training, with the assistance and cooperation of occupational advisory
committees and the National Institute of Vocational Training.   The MOE will
develop curricula for academic subjects and will be in charge of finance and
administration of vocational secondary schools with regional/local education
authorities.



1.15      Higher Education.  The structure of undergraduate education includes
three year colleges and five year universities, which are generally independent
of each other, with few students continuing from college to university.  The
college programs were started in the early 1960s with the aim of training
production engineers who did not need deep theoretical knowledge and are more
along the lines of the post-secondary technician education "fachhochschulen" in
the Federal Republic of Germany. The traditional five year university programs
are generally specialized; notably absent are the interdisciplinary programs
emphasized in OECD countries. Some universities have realized that a three year
program is sufficient to prepare students for the labor market in their given
professions and have recently initiated a three year option within the five year
program.
1.16      The complicated and outdated system of post-graduate degrees needs
simplification. The Doctor Universitas degree is awarded by the universities;
the degrees of Candidate of Science (C.Sc.) and Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) are
awarded by the State Committee on Degrees. These degrees are usually awarded
for research work and publications undertaken in the institutes of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences (HAS).  The D.Sc. is the most advanced degree, requiring
publication of substantial research articles or books. It takes an inordinately
long time under this system before a young scientist can initiate independent
research ventures.   Following the human resources review undertaken with the
Bank3', the HAS and the MOE arc drafting a law to simplify this system of
degrees, and the proposed project would have a component to support research by
young scientists.
1.17      Reforms in higher education -- with special emphasis on management
and finance, efficiency, quality improvement and more relevant programs -- are
needed.  The fragmentation of management and finance makes it difficult for
universities to share resources or improve the efficiency and relevance of their
programs.   The Ministries of Culture and Education, Agriculture,  anid Social
Welfare (which covers health) each have their own colleges and universities,
often in close proximity to each other. Student-staff ratios are low in many
faculties of both colleges and universities. At a time of budgetary constraints
and a growing university age population due to a demographic bulge in the
population age structure, special efforts are needed to increase efficiency.
Structural reforms are also needed to make the higher education system more
responsive to the needs of a market economy. Expansion of enrollments is needed
to raise participation rates in higher education to European levels. New and
inter-disciplinary programs need to be introduced, such as management, marketing
and financial training for engineers and scientists along with practical foreign
language training. Traditional curricula in many specialties need modernization,
e.g., accountancy programs which must be adapted to internationally accepted
standards. The proposed project would address many of these concerns.
1.18      Human Resources for Scientific and Technological Research. Hungary
has a long and respected tradition in science and technology research (STR) and
has struggled to maintain its STR capacity by investing about 2.6 percent of its
3Reference 1, Ibid.



CDP on R&D, a much higher proportion than the typical coiltry at ilt _! el of
per capita GDP.   On the other hand, due to COCOM re- ;ctioiu; aili it.! CMEA
links4', Hungary has spent relatively little on tile importation aiid adLiptation
of Western technology, and the links between adaptive researchi and t(c(111.Ology
transfer are correspondingly weak.   This can be expected to cllail;e as the
economic reforms proceed and there develops a genuine market-drivcn demand for
technological innovation on the part of private and public enterprises.
1.19      However, expansion of human resources for STR is necc_s:ary as the
present base is not adequate, either quantitatively or qualitatively, for the
more intensive and market oriented technology development effort niow required.
The FY88 Technology Development Project (Loan No. 2966-HU) idewtMiiied STR
manpower shortages as a constraining factor in Hungary's technology development
efforts. But expansion of professional training must be accompanied by reform
in the post-war system of higher education for STR, whereby basic research was
conducted primarily by institutes of HAS, applied research in the enterprises
or ministerial institutes, and the universities relegated almost exclusively to
teaching. Integration of research and teaching in the universities is needed
to keep faculty up to date and improve the training of scientific and engineering
personnel.   Improved management,  funding and quality of basic and applied
scientific research, with attention to linkages between the academic community
and enterprises, are needed to tap this source for improving the competitiveness
of the economy. Finally, Hungary faces the specter of a brain drain of its best
young scientific and engineering professionals if the prospects for science and
technology research seem constrained by economic and funding difficulties. The
proposed project would address these issues by providing research support for
young scientists, improving the availability of state of the art scientific
instrumentation and supporting policy reforms aimed at overcoming the rigidities
in the system of STR.
D.  Government Strateey and Bank Involvement in the Human Resources Sector
1.20      Human resources have a crucial role to play in the government's
medium term recovery program.   As the foregoing summary of key deficiencies
demonstrates, Hungary still has a long way to go to close the gap with its
European neighbors with whom it must compete.  Around 70 percent of the secondary
school age population is enrolled in secondary schools, but about half of this
is in apprentice schools which are not genuinely at the secondary level because
they offer very little general secondary education or training beyond the primary
level.   Only 15 percent of the university age population attends college or
university, compared with about 30 percent in OECD countries. Finally, Hungary
does not have the appropriate employment services and adult training programs
to develop the labor market flexibility needed for economic competitiveness.
l.21      Government strategy is to make up for these deficits  in human
resources development by expanding secondary and tertiary enrollments, providing
for adult training and employment programs, as well as initiating institutional
V Both of these constraints have recently been alleviated so that Hungary now
has to think of its science and technology strategy, including human
resources development, in a Western European framework.



-1I 
and policy reforms and refurbishing outmoded equipment and   ...i      .
Council of Ministers issued a resolution iii October 1990 stlppoltLiL t   .it
and coherent program of human resources investments in this projact..  Tlit-i t;I.I
of Ministers also accepted that a set of more than 20 legislative iiedsurt-s X,otih
be submitted to Parliament or to the Council of Ministers to enable thle iit-forims
in the human resources sector to proceed effectively.  The government believes
that it is better to adopt a major set of policy reforms as opposed to a
piecemeal approach. Its view is that a good program of comprehenisive invest melits
in human resources would generate an economic return conunenstirate withl
investments in industry and agriculture.
1.22      The Government strategy outlined above was elal)orated ill  l..
cooperation with the Bank through joint analytical work carried out in tl)t ilnlinl.
Resources Review prior to identification and preparation of this project  l*l1
COH explicitly wanted to concentrate on its priorities in eioployienlet, ti,11iliF,
and higher education as expressed in this project.  Thus primarv educatioji anld
academic  secondary education are not addressed  in this project  silkoe thl,
government believes that, although there are certain problems in these ai,as,
it is labor market programs, vocational training, higher education and isearcll
which are most urgently in need of expansion, improvement and reform.
1.23      In addition to the previously cited Human Resources Revie%w, Ba:ii,
assistance to the social dimensions of economic adjustment in Hiuniigary inc(Jiidet.
an ongoing study of social security (including unemploymernt compensation).
These issues are not addressed in the proposed project. The proposed project,
a direct follow-up to the Human Resources Review, would be the firsL Banik 1ikuia,.
resources operation in Hungary.  Valuable experience, which has been taken inte
account in the design of this project, was also gained in the Employment
Component of the FY89 Third Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP3, Loan No.
3020-HU).   In addition,  important  labor market policy reforms  are  to be
implemented as part of the FY90 Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3228).  The
most important are: removal of the wage bracket system to allow for upward and
downward flexibility of wages, removal of ceilings on the number of emplo'vees
private sector firms can hire and the introduction of an unemployment insurance
system in 1991.
1.24      The  crucial  economic  issue  in the  government  straLegy  is  thi.
affordability of its sector investment program SJ.  The current project would
finance about 20% of the investment- envisioned by the government's sectol
investment program over a five year horizon §.   The government views this
project as open program of investment in human resources in that it will use
this project framework to approach other donors. The domestic investment and
a An economic analysis of some key issues in the human resources sector is
given in Hungary: The Transition to a Market Economy -- Critical Human
Resources Issues (Report No. 8665-HU, August 1990). These issues are
restricted to employment and training and higher education and researchl
issues and exclude primary and academic secondary education. The healtlh
sector is now being studied in joint review by the GOH and the Bank.
s This refers only to investments in employment and training and higher
education and research, not to primary or academic secondary schools. The
investment program calculations are in the project file (see Annex 10 for i
list).



- 8 -
incremental recurrent costs of this project would be financed by the government
as the initial thrust of a larger investment program which may result from
additional donor assistance. While the local investment and recurrent costs for
this project would be affordable given current budget projections (see para.
3.6), it is essential for the government to analyze the domestic costs of
additional external assistance which may be forthcoming. The experience gained
by the Hungarian working teams during project preparation would assist them in
this analysis.



-9 -
II. THE PROJECT.
A. Project Objectives.
2.1       The overall project objective is to address certain priority human
resources 4ssues (outlined in Chapter I) which constrain a successful transition
to an open market economy.  The proposed project would assist the government
program to alleviate the unemployment impact of economic restructuring and to
invest in human resources so as to promote Hungary's economic and technological
competitiveness in an integrated European framework. Specific objectives are
to:
(a)   assist unemployed workers to find jobs and enterprises to find
suitable workers, with emphasis on meeting the special needs of
unemployed women and their families;
(b)   provide  relevant  training  for  adults  and  youth,   including
entrepreneurial training, especially in relation to item (a);
(c)   improve  the  responsiveness  of  higher  education  to  the  new
professional demands of a market economy, with special emphasis on
improving access, relevance, quality, efficiency and financing;
(d)   assist in narrowing the technology gap between Hungary and its
competitors by expanding and reorienting the training of science and
technology researchers, improving management of research and forging
better linkages between the academic community and enterprises; and
(e)   in support of items (b) - (d), improve foreign language training to
promote international economic and technological ties.
B. Brief Proiect Description.
2.2       The proposed project!' consists of two programs designed to implement
the above objectives (para. 2.1):
The Employment and Training Program involves:
(a)   development of employment information and services programs which
would incorporate lessons from and scale up the pilot programs
initiated under the Employment Component of the Third Industrial
Restructuring Project -- Loan No. 3020-HU (to be implemented by
Ministry of Labor);
D See Annex 8 for a detailed table of equipment and TA by sub-components.
The TA would be divided into eight packages which are indicated in the tables
for each sub-component and terms of reference are included in the project
file.



- 10 -
(b)   improvement of occupational training for adults to better meet
retraining needs during and after the transition period, through the
formation of regional labor development centers with effective
linkages to the regional economy and labor market (to be implemented
by the newly founded National Training Council);
(c)   initiating reform of vocational secondary schools for youth now in
narrow and out-dated vocational training, through developing model
vocational secondary schools.   These schools would provide more
general education and broader training in clusters of occupational
skills to be followed, if necessary, by specialized training on the
job or in programs under the National Training Council (to be
implemented by Ministry of Culture and Education and Ministry of
Labor);
The Higher Education and Research Program entails:
(d)   initial steps to expand and reform higher education by supporting
the establishment of a new higher education development fund, the
Catching-up-with-Higher-Education-in-Europe Fund (CEF), which would
channel investments in new programs via competitive grant funding
which aims to promote: (i) greater collaboration and resource
sharing among the overly specialized and fragmented universities,
(ii) new and interdisciplinary programs, e.g., economics, finance
and management for engineers and scientists, and (iii) integration
of research and teaching through expanding collaboration between the
universities and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (to be
implemented by the CEF);
(e)   developing a program of practically  oriented  foreign language
training and a framework within which bilateral assistance for
foreign languages can be utilized effectively ( to be implemented
by the CEF); and
(f)   supporting human resources for and reform of Science and Technology
Research (STRI through:  (i) the earmarking of a portion of the
competition based National Scientific Research Fund (OTKA) for
younger researchers along with policy changes to improve the
competitive procedures of OTKA, (ii) refurbishing the scientific
instrumentation centers financed by OTKA and improving their
management, and (iii) upgrading the national R&D computer network
(IIF) used by academic and industrial researchers so as to increase
the efficiency of R&D information exchange domestically and
internationally (to be implemented by OTKA).
C. Details of Project Components
1. Employment and Training
2.3       As discussed extensively in the Human Resources Review, Hungary will
need a new system of labor market information, employment services and training
to support a market economy.



- 11 -
Emplovment Information and Services (Base Cost USS 8.1 million)
2.4       Existing  labor market  information  systems  are  not  capable  of
monitoring the rapidly changing economy or providing information needed by
policy makers, enterprises or individual citizens to make informed decisions.
National and local employment institutions do not have the techniques, materials
and qualified staff to deal with large numbers of unemployed, or to promote
occupational and geographic mobility.
2.5       Statistical programs. The project would improve labor statistics in
the following ways:   (a) establishment of an unemployment monitoring system
based upon sample surveys of households conducted at least quarterly, starting
with a pilot survey in January 1991; (b) broadening the establishment sample
frame  to  include  the  private  sector,  including  small  and  medium  scale
enterprises,  so that representative sample surveys can be carried out;  (c)
improving wage and cost of living data by carrying out surveys based on the
upgraded establishment and household sample frames; and (d) revising systems of
occupational  and  sector  classifications,  including  the  development  of  a
sector/occupation matrix to analyze employment patterns. These surveys would
collect and analyze data at the regional as well as the national level. As a
result of this enhanced statistical program, the Ministry of Labor (MOL) would
have better information to develop and execute policies. The government agreed
during negotiations that the system of unemployment monitoring implemented in
January 1991 would be continued on at least a quarterly basis.
2.6       This  activity would  be  executed  for  the  MOL by  the  Central
Statistics Office (CSO), which has had good collaborative arrangements with MOL
in the past. The CSO would receive technical assistance in the form of 21 staff-
months of fellowships and 5 staff-months of consultant services (see Annexes 4
and 8 for further details of project activities and technical assistance).
Computer equipment would also be provided to augment existing capacity.  The
existing staffing is adequate to carry out the program, and some overall sav4.ngs
in staff may be possible since many statistical programs from the period of
central planning will be eliminated.
2.7       Labor market analysis.  The project would provide support to the MOL
to develop its capabilities to undertake labor market analyses in the following
areas: (a) surveys of short term (6 to 12 months) labor market trends in each
region (based upon pilot surveys now underway in two counties as part of IRP3);
(b) initiation of a National Occupational Information Coordinating Council
(NOICC) representing both users and developers of occupational and other labor
market information. The NOICC would assist in coordinating the development and
dissemination of occupational information in a user friendly format, including
the development of an interactive data base for users; (c) medium term labor
market analysis (I to 5 years) involving the development of alternative
scenarios of occupational supply and demand which can be updated periodically
in the light of on-going economic trends and forecasts. This would also include
special studies of labor market aspects of social policies which could include
topics such as unemployment benefits or social security.
2.8       The  staff  of  the MOL has  acquired  some  experience  in  these
activities under the Employment Component of IRP3. The project would provide
TA and equipment to extend the IRP3 pilot programs from two counties to each of
Hungary's 20 counties.   The project would provide for 28 staff-months of
fellowships, 24 staff-months of consulting services and computer equipment.



- 12 -
2.9       Emplovment  services.       The  above  statistical  and  analytical
activities support the central part of this component -- the employment
services.   Before embarking on expensive retraining options,  the employment
services would assist in matching workers with appropriate jobs and otherwise
facilitate the mobility of the labor from where it is excess to more productive
uses.   Special  techniques and materials would be developed to help older
displaced workers and the increasing numbers of unemployed youth.  The following
activities would be supported:
(a)   Refinement and expansion of industrial adjustment services for mass
layoffs.
(b)   Refinement and dissemination of job search techniques and materials
available to clients at labor offices.
(c)   Development  and  dissemination  of  automated  Career  Information
Systems (CIS) which clients can operate for themselves to (i) assess
their occupational aptitude and interests, and (ii) acquire
information on occupational education and training opportunities.
(d)   In collaboration with selected universities,  development of new
short  and  long-term  professional  training  programs,  including
diploma and post-graduate studies, for career counselors in labor
offices and schools.
This sub-component would provide 47 staff-months of fellowship and 36 staff-
months of consulting services to Hungarian staff and computer and related
equipment for the employment offices covering all of the 20 counties.
2.10      The  above  statistical  and  analytical  capabilities  along  with
enhanced employment services would support the development of policies to
improve labor market efficiency. These policies and programs would be closely
monitored as they are implemented by MOL. The main areas of ,o licy evaluation
to be supported by the project are: (a) unemployment benefit system, including
its funding, costs and administration; (b) cost-effectiveness evaluations of
different components of the Employment Fund, which was started by th  ..-     nment
in 1988 to address unemployment and retraining problems; and (c) planning and
budgeting processes for the Employment Fund based upon the above analysis of
cost-effectiveness. The technical assistance and staffing requirements for this
policy monitoring and evaluation are incorporated in the labor market analyses
sub-component.
Adult Training (Base Cost USS 67.8 million)
2.11      The project woulc  support the development of a labor market-based
training  system.    In  conjunction  with  the  labor  market  information  and
employment services described above, the system would provide a flexible and
rapid response to the training needs of adults. A previously cited report has
diagnosed in detail the deficiencies of the Hungarian adult training system and
recommended policy changes which this project would support-'. These policies
8 Reference 1, Ibid., Chapter 3.



- 13 -
are al'o conlsistent withI those irl the Bank's recent policy paper on vocational
trainling, whlich provides a comprehensive review of experience with training
systems in maniy countries9.
2.12       National Training Council Operations,  The project would support
the creation of a National Training Council (NTC) and affiliated regional
training boards (RTBs).  The NTC would be an attonomous body with a tri-partite
composition (government, employers and employees). It would define policy for
provision of regional adult training programs and would have a budget to fund
a portion (about 30%) of the costs of programs that meet NTC norms.  T1he NTC
norms would encourage flexible programs whicth can meet the training needs of
various groups of workers. This includes young first time job seekers as well
as mature unemployed adults.   This also includes incumbent workers who need
skill upgrading. Flexible training _ould also meet the special needs of women
workers, especially those in the 35-45 year age group who did not receive much
vocational training in the 1960s (see para 1.10). The NTC norms would supporc
development of a comprehensive set of services:
(a)   Core vocational training programs in facilities or institutions
which provide services that meet NTC norms (e.g. modular training,
flexible entry/exit instruction, etc.);
(b)   Customized quick-start vocational training programs, especially for
new enterprises intending to locate in the region;
(c)   Adult  education  needed  to  complement  job  training,  including
relevant foreign language skills;
(d)   Occupational counseling and placement services;
(e)   Small business technical assistance; and
(f)   Mobile vocational  training equipment for selected regions
which may require rapid initiation of training, or for
isolated areas having high unemployment.
2.13      Regional training board programs.  The NTC would not run training
programs but would be a policy and funding body. Training programs and services
would be provided by the regional training boards (RTBs) affiliated with the
NTC. The RTBs would have a tri-partite composition. The project would assist
the NTC in preparing criteria for selecting and establishing RTBs and the policy
guidelines for their operations. The selection criteria would include, but not
be limited to: unemployment rates, age composition of the unemployed, commitment
of regional governments to provide resources, proportion of unskilled unemployed
workers, skills of the workforce as compared to the demand, availability of
alternate training/employment services in the region, and the availability of
transportation/infrastructure in the region.   The project would support the
development of RTBs in up to 10 regions.  The training programs of these ten
RTBs would provide a training capacity of about 16,500 training places annually
by 1995, assuming an average training duration of 6 months.   This would meet
W Skills for Productivity: Policies for Vocational and Technical Education and
Training in Developing Countries (Education and Employment Division,
Population and Human Resources Department, September 1990)



- 14 -
about ?'O% of estimnated adult training needs in 1995 L'. The RTBs would provide
services either directly through the establishment of Regional Labor Development
Centers tKlDCs) or through sub-contracting with institutions (public or private)
which could provide services according to NTC norms.
2.114     The RLDCs would provide services under the supervision of the RTBs
anid ill accordance with NTC national policy and local labor r..qrket conditions.
The RL.DCs maY provide services outside NTC norms with the understanding that
these services would not be funded by the NTC.  The RTBs would develop the
admirnistLrative structure and training profiles as well as identify facilities
whichi cani serve as RLDCs.   In some regions this would require renovation of
facilities, but in others an existing training center could become the RLDC if
it meets the NTC and RTB norms and guidelines and could be renovated at minimal
expense.
2.15      The NTC would provide professional leadership with a small executive
secretariat of sufficient numbers of suitably qualified professionals, with the
director  satisfactory to the NTC,  for execution of the NTC mandate.   In
addition, the NTC would sub-contract for development of selected national
services needed by RTBs, including: (a) creation of data banks and procedures
for job analysis, modular curriculum development and skill testing. These
materials would be made available at RTBs for use in program deveiopment and
operation as needed, but would not be mandated; (b) special studies to determine
the cost-effectiveness of adult training services; and (c) development of RLDC
management, evaluation and accreditation capacities.
2.16        In addition to training equipment, the project ,ould provide 111
staff-months of fellowship and 105 staff-months of consulting services in order
to establish the institutional capabilities of the NTC, RTBs and RLDCs. Some
Hungarian staff have acquired limited experience in this approach through the
Miskolc training center set up under the IRP3.  That pilot program is being
implemented on schedule and is showing positive results, but the scale of
operations in the proposed project wo-ld be much larger. Chapter III provides
more details of these implementation arrangements.
2.17      The NTC was established by an enabling decree of the Council of
Ministers  issued  in mid-February  1991.    The  government  confirmed  during
negotiations that it would review with the Bank not later than November 30 of
each year the proposed NTC and RTBs budget and programs for the following fiscal
year of the Borrower. Disbursements for goods under the adult training component
of the project would be conditional upon (i) the NTC budget having been adopted
for the borrower's fiscal year ending December 31, 1991, (ii) operational
guidelines for regional training boards having been adopted and at least four
of these boards having been established and staffed, and (iii) the proposed
programs and budgets of these regional training boards having been adopted for
the borrower's fiscal year ending December 31, 1991.
iQ1These estimates are based upon the high unemployment scenario and OECD
average figures about the percentage of the unemployed who need retraining.
On this basis, the percentage of adult unemployed training needs met by the
training capacity from this project would be about 7% in 1991 and rises
steadily to about 20% by 1995.



- 1 5 -
lmproved Youth Training (Base Cost USS 60.0 million)
2.!8       Ihle project would support the upgrading of vocational secondary
schlooling, itl order to: (a) provide a better preparation for work in a changing
labor market that would require greater technological and basic skills, and (b)
proiPote  irnereased occupational choice.   Some 20 model vocational secondary
centers would be developed, each center having about three schools.  The concept
of ((lt eirs does not refer to a single large facility, but to a relatively small
geogl-aphic catchment area which would serve a student population.  There would
thus  )be about 60 schools  involved,  or about  15% of  the  total number  of
vocatioital secondary schools.   Criteria for the selection of the 20 centers
woul(i include, but not be limited to: availability of residential facilities,
staff support, regional/local authority support for the proposed centers, equity
between regions and availability of school infrastructure to support revised/new
curricula.   The project would provide for training equipment and technical
assistance involving 65 staff-months of fellowships and 292 staff-months of
expert consulting services.
2.19      The model vocational secondary schools would provide the basis for
reforming the current vocational secondary schools and for phasing the
apprentice schools, which would revert to the RLDCs, out of the public school
system.    A  broad  based  curriculum  (science,  mathematics,  language  and
communication skills, etc.) would be provided for 14 -16 year olds (grades 9-
10). The MOE, with the involvement of local teachers, would develop curricula
for academic subjects in the vocational secondary schools and would also be in
charge of finance and administration of these schools in cooperation with
regional/local education authorities. The government would formulate detailed
proposals on this cooperative arrangement within the framework of the recent
Local Government Act.
2.20      Vocational preparation would be introduced only in grades 11-12, and
the content of vocational preparation shifted from narrow specializations to
broader occupational clusters of skills. Thus, for example, students would not
simply learn to be an "electrical fitter", but would be exposed to wider skills
and background knowledge of phenomena related to electrical occupations.
Vocational curricula would be developed under the direction of the MOL
department irn charge of youth training, with the assistance and cooperation of
occupatir.ial advisory committees and the National Institutes for Vocational
Training and General Education, which are policy oriented research institutes
attached to the MOL and MOE respectively. The project would support development
and testing of up to 15 broad occupational curricula to be introduced
selectively into new model vocational schools. None of the schools would offer
all the 15 occupational curricula; the number of curricula in each school would
depend upon costs so that the model schools could be repl'cated as part of a
larger investment program.   Specialized occupational training which is more
directly 1__.. market oriented would be provided in programs sponsored under
NTC/RTBs.
2.21      Thus a new model of vocational education would be develDed which
would include:
(a)   Defining procedures  to develop vocational curricula,  e.g.,  job
analysis;



- 1 6-
(b)   Developing new vocational  training curricula for up to 15 skill
clusters and Implementing three or four of them in each of the
cenrters, leading to specialized training after 12th grade;
(c)   Revising/developing seven basic education programs  (mathematics,
sciences, techniology, informatics, social studies, communications
atid languages) and implementing them in all model schools in the
centers;
(d)   Developing audio-visual laboratories  in two centers  to support
instructLioral development activities;
(e)   Improving guidance and counseling programs in all schools in the 20
centers (in cooperation with the employment component);
(f)   Improving bilingual education in selected vocational schools; and
(g)   Improving  training provided by  five  regional higher  education
institutions in the fields of vocational teaching, counseling and
administration (the same training programs would serve counselors
and administrators in the employment services, adult training and
youth training).
2, Hieher Education and Research Program
Higher Education Reforms (Base Cost USS 87.1 million)
2.22      The GOH strategy in higher education and research is to expand the
sector, improve its quality and implement a thorough institutional reform. It
sees  all  of these aspects  as necessary  to sustaining Hungary's  economic
transformation in the medium and long run.  This is a large agenda and the COH
of Hungary does not want  to repeat the mistakes  of central planning  in
implementing its stra-.egy.  This project, therefore, draws upon some of the
latest strategies for implementing higher education and research reforms in OECD
countries and in recent Bank projects in other regions (e.g., the recent FY91
Science and Research Training Project in Brazil).
2.23      In order to gain maximum benefit from available investment spending
in higher education, the GOH has created a competitive funding agency, entitled
the   "Catching-up-with-Higher-Education-in-Europe   Fund"   (CEF),   which  is
autonomous from the MOE. The purpose is to provide incentives to institutions
of higher education for, inter alia, introduction of new programs, improvement
in inter-institutional collaboration, and integration of research and teaching.
The CEF would thus make a substantial contribution to the development and
reorientation of Hungarian higher education.
2.24      The criteria and procedures for assessment of proposals by the CEF
were developed during preparation (See Annex 5 for details). Sample submissions
and initial draft proposals for the first round of competition were reviewed and
further refined during pre-appraisal and appraisal respectively.   Based upon
these sample submissions and initial draft proposals, the project would provide
for equipment, rehabilitation of existing buildings, software and technical
assistance for the CEF secretariat's staff in the form of 860 staff-months of
fellowship and 100 staff-months of consulting services.



- 17 -
?,2 ?S   IImprovinig tthe  financing and management  of higher  education  is
essential to the process of expanding enrollments.  The curre-it fragmentation
of funiditng mechanisiims (see para. 1.1/) would be replaced by a unified funding
system.  This may not necessarily meani that all universities would come under
the same supervisory ministry, but tthe same principles and formulas would be
applieed to the varving circumstances of different universities. This unified
mechanism would lay down necessary operating procedures for allocating
government  funds,  including normative  financing.   By 1992,  the government
intends to progressively introduce normative financing to increase average
stuldent-staff ratios from 1:5 to 1:8.  A new law defining the management and
finatncing of higher education is under preparation. During negotiations, the
government confirmed that it would submit by December 31, ;991, to Parliament
draft laws providing for the autonomy of universities and colleges and a
mechanism for their normative financing. Technical assistance from university
systems which have had experience with normative financing is included in the
project. The system of educational statistics, especially financial data, will
also have to be reoriented. It is very difficult under the present system to
delineate clearly investment and recurrent financing, which is essential for
monitoring and planning exercises.   Technical assistance will be provided to
help reorient the statistical system, and also for procurement training, project
preparation, appraisal, and implementation, budget preparation, and performance
review. Chapter III provides details on the implementation of this component.
2.26      At a time of continuing cor.straints on the government budget,
institutions would be encouraged to seek adlitional income from non-governmental
sources. Higher education institutions axe already allowed to retain revenues
within their operat'.ng budgets.   Many institutions have been carrying out
contract research for public enterprises, which has been a significant part of
their revenue in the past decade. However, with the enterprises facing reduced
subsidies, this source of income is likely to be drastically reduced and other
sources will need to be found. A feasibility study will be conducted to study
the scope for increased revenues and cost recovery in higher education,
including such measures as:
(a) cost recovery in the form of partial tuition and other fees;
(b) incentives to encourage private donations;
(c) the possibility of use of vouchers, and the potential financial role
of local authorities.
The GOH confirmed during negotiations that it would: (i) carry out and review
with the Bank by June 30, 1992 a feasibility study on revenue generation and
cost recovery in higher education; and (ii) take all measures required on its
part to ensure the improvement of cost recovery on the basis of the study's
recommendations, taking into consideration the comments of the Bank. A further
study would assess ways to improve the efficiency of education, e.g., through
more intensive use of facilities, and closing redundant establishments.
Foreign Language Training (Base Cost USS 17.6 million)
2.27      In keeping with the objective of increasing Hungary's international



- 18 -
I lo (Irrii  ties out s'i(it of its t raditionial CMEA framework, the GOH places high
priO itv (I11 dc.'-loli'i1  vxterisive foreign language fluency.  The project would
hel p to mIckt thlt' rapidl%v changing demand for foreign language skills and for
foreitgn ldIIi')age teach(rs resulting from Government language policy, which has
atbandoned the coinpuilsor%Y teaching of Russian, supports linguistic mAnorities and
wishes to offer the choice of a foreign language from primary grade four.  The
(:0l ant ieipatvs tthat the developmenit of such a framework will serve to attract
bilateral  resources arid provide an effec. ve nmde for channeling domestic
re sourCtes.
2.28      The CEF will also implement this component and will earmark US$17.6
millioIt for foreign language (FL) training programs.  Funding on a competitive
basis would be provided for proposals which address the following priorities for
F'. svstem clevelopimment: accelerated (3 year) and expanded teacher-training
prov ision; reformim of State language examinations and introduction of regional
examinatiott centers wher-e foreign language examinations can be administered;
cuiriculum anid materials development; the development and provision of in-
service training and support (beginning with a program to retrain teachers of
Russian): the developmernt of more specialized and flexible full-time and part-
time programmes for further and in-service foreign language teacher training;
the establishment of university departments of applied-linguistics in each
region to strengthen university course development aimed at giving practical
fluency  to  students;  the  provision  and  expansion  of  university  service
departments of foreign languages (for faculty, staff and students) to meet the
national target of all technical and professional graduates qualifying in at
least one foreign language from 1992 on;  and the provision by these service
departments of language training to commerce, industry and the local community
on a cost recovery basis.
2.29      The project wouli :.upport the following institutional development
activities in foreign language training:
(a)   strengthening cf tV  secretariat of the CEF so that it can serve as
an instrument for ft.iiding and monitoring innovative foreign language
trainling programs o- a competitive basis;
(b)   creation of a Natior..-' Council of Foreign Languages which would come
under the CEF, guie  Coreign language policy and approve balanced
progiammes of regions' investment;
(c)   development  of  bil n&ial  vocational  curricula  in  vocational
secondary schools anl of foreign language training within adult
t.aining. especially for small and medium scale entrepreneurs; and
(d)   formulation and implemtntation of an investment program to retrain
Russian language teachers.
2.30      The final version of the decree and schedules incorporating the NCFL
were issued at th: end of November 1990 so that the NCFL Board members and
Secretariat could undertake the final review of the first round of competition
by December 31, 1990. These proposals, which were reviewed during appraisal,
and would commit the full US$17.6 million allocated to the Foreign Language sub-
component in the CEF. The CEF Secretariat would organize a workshop to assist
those institutions which need to reformulate their proposals in accordance with



- 19 -
NCFI. guidefl ines. Based upon the review of these proposals and the needs of the
NCFL, the project would provide for equipment, 760 staff-months of fellowships
and 500 staff inonths of consulting services.
Human Resources for Science and Technology Research (Base Cost US$ 48.0
million).
2.31      The  government  has  recognized  the  pressing  need  to  preserve
hiungarv's scientific and technological capability, to modernize it, to manage
it efficieit lv, and to link it to teaching and to commercial activity in such
a wav as to support the emergence of Hungary into Europe and into international
markets. In line with the recommendations of the human resources review iJ, a
series of measures are in train to improve policy making and implementation;
link research, education and commercialization; reverse the trend of outward
migration and ageing of the scientific community; and improve the funding of
basic science. These include:
(a)   The establishment of a Science Policy Committee (SPC) chaired by the
Minister without Portfolio. Members include the President of the
HAS, the Chairman of the State Office of Technology Development
(OMFB), and the Ministers of Finance and Education. The SPC will
advise the government on science policy and oversee the principal
agencies implementing science policy and undertaking basic research
and applied R&D. The SPC is assisted by a Council for Science Policy
(CSP) chaired by the Minister without Portfolio, which acts as the
technical working group for the SPC. The CSP's membership includes
senior officials of the HAS, OTKA, OMFB, the line ministries and
invited experts. The SPC and the CSP are supported by a science
policy secretariat.
(b)   The proposed establishment of an autonomous foundation to support
basic science (OTKA). OTKA, which was established by a decree of
the Council of Ministers on December 3, 1991, will replace a
similarly named research fund which has been managed since 1985 by
the HAS to support basic scientific research. During the period
1985-90, this fund disposed of about 2.5% of the total Hungarian R&D
budget (corresponding to about 9% of state budget R&D allocations)
and supported over 1200 research projects. About 50% of the fund's
cotal budget was used to support individual investigators, about 30%
to finance instrumentation and informatics, and about 20% to finance
instrumentation centers. The funding system earned a good overall
reputation within the country for fairness and efficiency and the
lessons learned in administering the fund have been incorporated in
the design of the new OTKA. These include the need for autonomy in
decision making, and for clear and transparent funding rules
includiag a well established application procedure, feedback to
applicants and peer review. Accordingly, the President of OTKA, who
will be appointed by the Minister without Portfolio, will report to
the  CSP.      A  nine-member  governing  council  will  comprise
representatives of the HAS, Universities and the Ministries of
Education, Agriculture and Social Welfare (which includes hospitals
and medical universities). Reporting to the president of OTKA will
Ibid., Reference 1, Report 8665-HU, Chapter 5



- 20 -
be three expert committees in natural sciences, life sciences and
social  sciences,  with  chairpersons  elected  by  the  relevant
professional communities. The expert committees will delegate the
review process to suitably qualified peer reviewers in Hungary and
abroad. OTKA's budget in 1991 is determined at Ft 1.8 billion.
(c)   Preparation of legislation which will define the role of the HAS as
an autonomous institution dedicated to the promotion of high quality
science, ensure the autonomy of the universities, promote increased
collaboration between institutions of higher education and the HAS
in postgraduate education and research, and reform the scientific
degree system so that universities and the HAS, rather than a
separate organization,  will award postgraduate degrees.   During
negotiations, the government confirmed its agreement to introduce
to Parliament by December 31, 1991 draft laws providing for: (i)
the autonomy of the HAS and (ii) the reform of the system of
advanced training for scientists and the awarding of scientific
degrees.
2.32      The  project  would  strengthen  the  institutional  and  financial
capacity of OTKA to improve the training of research scientists and engineers
as well as the quality of research in Hungary by: (a) supporting research by
young  scientists;  (b)  upgrading  and  expanding  the  network  of  scientific
instrumentation centers; and (c) developing the national R&D computer netwo'rk
(IIF) used by the academic and industrial research communities.
2.33      Young Scientists Sunnort Program (USS3.7 million).  The Hungarian
scientific community is ageing. Between 1972-87, there was a decline in the
proportion of researchers below the age of 29 from 23% to 13%, and an increase
in those between 50-59 from 10% to 19% (see Annex III, Table 3). By 1985, the
average age of Hungarians holding the D.Sc. degree was 53, while that of those
holding the equivalent to a PhD was 48. There is also an accelerating brain
drain of scientists. Some 15% of Hungarian scientific researchers are now
working outside the country, and of these, one-quarter do not return within five
years.   Hungarian scientists are emigrating in part because of the better
opportunities in other countries and in part for lack of opportunity (especially
for younger Hungarian scientists). Research grants have been heavily weighted
in favor of established scientists and institutions.
2.34      To improve opportunities for younger scientists, the project would
finance through OTKA about 200 grants to promising researchers under the age of
35. Funds would be used to purchase small items of research equipment, books,
research materials and foreign travel for conferences and study. The procedures
for review of proposals and award of grants are summarized in Annex 6. Three
competitions would be held in the years 1991, 1992 and 1993. Awards would be
granted in September of each year. In December of each year of the competition,
OTKA would provide for Bank review an evaluation of that year's competition,
together with proposals for improving the next year's competition.
2.35      Scientific Instrumentation Centers (USS 24.1 million).  Since 1985,
eleven instrumentation centers have been created to provide Hungarian
researchers in various institutions with access to sophisticated instruments
that are too expensive for any single investigator or institution.  The centers
are attached to a university or research institute. Other scientific and R&D
institutions share use of the equipment and jointlv pay the running and mainte-



- 21 -
nance costs. The capital costs were borne by the HAS managed research fund
(OTKA). The system has proved cost-effective in improving access to expensive
instrumentation, and in enhancing cooperation amongst scientific institutions.
2.36      The  project  would  support  an expansion  and upgrading  of  the
instrumentation centers through an open competition which would be run in 1991
and 1992. Bids would be invited from existing centers and from institutions for
the following purposes: a) developing existing centers, or establishing new ones
(including renewing or upgrading existing instrumentation); and b) supporting
research projects using existing centers. Criteria for inviting proposals are
stipulated  in Annex  7.  Proposals  would be judged by  expert  peer  review
supervised  by  the  relevant  OTKA  expert  committee.  The  results  of  each
competition would be published, and unsuccessful applicants would be provided
with feedback so that future applications for funds could be improved. Awards
would be granted in September of each year. In December of each year of the
competition, OTKA would provide for Bank review an evaluation of that year's
competition, together with proposals for improving the next year's competition.
2.37      R&D  Computer  Network  (IIF)  (US$  20.2  million).       Access  to
international data bases and international communications networks are essential
if Hungarian science and R&D are to contribute effectively to technological
competitiveness. Starting in 1986, the Program Bureau of The Computer and
Automation Institute of the HAS (SZTAKI) has successfully implemented an initial
phase of an R&D computer network (IIF) supporting Hungarian universities,
research institutes and R&D facilities. Intelligent terminals, PCs, Local Area
Networks and a packet switching communication system have been installed. About
200 institutions and some 1500 users are expected to be connected by the end of
1990. Adequate criteria have been developed to determine eligibility for
inclusion of new users. An important second phase, made possible by the easing
of COCOM restrictions, would include: expanding the user network to include
another 300 institutions and up to 2000 users, assisting integration of
institutions of higher education and research establishments through shared
information services, accessing international data bases and expanding the use
of electronic mail.
2.38      The R&D Infrastructure Coordinating Bureau of OTKA has prepared a
five year investment program for the IIF designed to develop: (a) the hardware
and software services which would allow increased user access to the IIF; (b)
the information services (regional computer centers, message handling
facilities,  data  bases  and  library  services);  (c)  international  network
connections; and (d) training of systems personnel and users. Further details
concerning the IIF management system are available in the project files. The
project would support the acquisition of computers (mainframes, minis and PCs),
associated communications hardware and software, technical assistance and
training. Outline equipment specifications have been prepared and reviewed by
the Bank. Project funds would be channelled through OTKA, but the project would
be managed by the R&D Infrastructure Coordinating Bureau, which has the
technical and management skills te implement the second phase.
D. Environmental Impact
2.39      The project has been classified as C: "No appreciable environmental
impact" However, environmental considerations will feature prominently among
the criteria to be used to select sub-projects for funding under the higher
education fund (CEF) and the OTKA fund.  Attentior would also be given to



- 22 -
appropriate waste disposal from laboratories.
III. COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATIvd. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT.
A. Project Costs.
3.1             Overview.   Total project costs by component  (see Table 3.1) are
estimated at US$339.8 million, of which US$150 million would be foreign exchange
costs financed by the Bank loan.   Total costs include equipment,  software,
fellowships, consultants, minor rehabilitation of existing buildings, and staff
and consumable materials during implementation.   Project costs by types of
expenditure  categories are shown in Table 3.2.   Annex 8 shows details of
assigned quantities and costs by year and activity.
Table 3.1: PROJECT SUMMARY BY PROJECT ITEM
--- Forint Million ----    ----  USS Million  -- %Base %Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
A. IMPROVED LABOR PROGRAM
Statistical Programs                     96.7       59.6     156.2       1.4      0.8      2.2        11      38X
Labor Market Analysis                   139.7       46.1     185.8       2.0      0.6      2.6        1X      251
Employment Services                     155.2      80.2    235.4         2.2      1.1      3.3        11      34%
Sub-Total Labor Programs:           391.6      185.9    577.5        5.5       2.6      8.1       3%      32%
B. ADULT TRAINING
NTC Operations                       3,384.6       42.0  3,426.6       47.7       0,6    48.3        17%       1%
Regional Trg. Board Programs             22.4  1,364.5  1,387.0          0.3    19.2       19.5       7%      98%
Sub-Total Adult Training:         3,407.0  1,406.6  4,813.6          48.0     19.8    67.8        23%      29%
C. IMPROVED YOUTH TRAINING
Model Voc. Secondary Schools    2,134.0  2,122.9  4,256.9    30.1    29.9    60.0                     21%      501
Sub-Total Youth Training:         2,134.0  2,122.9  4,256.9    30.1           29.9    60.0        21%       50%
D. HIGHER EDUCATION
Higher Education Reforms              2,714.0  3,467.9  6,181.9    38.2           48.8    87.1        30%      56%
Foreign Language Training               532.5      717.1  1,249.6        7.5      10.1     17.6        6%      57X
Sub-Total Higher Ed & Res.    3,246.5  4,185.0  7,431.5    45.7    58.9    104.7                  36%       56Z
E.  HR for SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Young Scientists Supp. Program           120.7     142.0      262.7       1.7      2.0      3.7        1%      54%
Scientific Instrument Centers   1,001.1            710.0  1,711.1        14.1     10.0    24.1         8%      41%
R&D Computer Network                  1,022.4      411.8  1,434.2       14.4       5.8     20.2        7X      29%
Sub-Total Science and Tech.  2,144.2  1,263.8  3,408.0               30.2     17.8    48.0        17%       37%
Total Base Costs:                       11,323.3  9,164.2 20,487.5    159.5   129.1   288.6             100%       45%
Physical Contingencies:                 681.6      551.6  1,233.2        9.6       7.8     17.4        6%      45%
Price Contingencies:                  1,470.0      932.6  2,402.6       20.7      13.1     33.8       12%      39%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     13,474.8 10,648.4 24,123.2    189.8   150.0    339.8            118%       44%
3.2             Project Component Designs.  In terms of costing and implementation
designs, project components follow two different patterns: (a) detailed and ex-
ante costed sub-components; and (b) the establishment of funds in support of



- 23
competitive sub-projects.
(a)  Detailed  Component  Design.            Most  of  the  labor,  adult  and  vouth
training program components shown in Table 3.1 have been costed as
traditional,  fully  identified  sub-components.    For  examnple,  the  labor
statistics program would be implemented as a fully prepared sub-project.
However, the NTC, RTB's and RLDC's would operate many programs on a sub-
contract basis which could include degrees of competition as the situation
demands. Private sector vendors could also be sub-contracted to provide
training services where it is judged that they would be the most effective
sources.
Table 3 2 PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITI'RE
--- Forint Million ----   -- USS Million -- %Base %Foreign
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total Costs Exchange
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
Fellowships                      0.0 1,199.0  1,199.0    0 0   16 9   16.9      6%   100%
Consultants                    261 5   774.0  1,035 5    3.7   10 9   14.6    5S    75%
Sub-Total Technical Assistance:   261.5 1,973.1 2,234.5    3 7   27.8   31.5    11S    88S
B. EQUIPMENT, SOFTWARE AND RESEARCH
Equipment                    2,504.5 6,307.1  8,811.6   35.3   88 8  124.1    432    72S
Software (Including Books)     284.0   742.0  1,026.0    4.0   10.5   14.5      5%    72%
Research                       120.7   142.0   262.7    1.7    2 0    3.7       1X    54Z
Sub-Total Eqt, Raes. and Software:  2,909.2  7,191.1 10,100.3   41 0  101.3  142.3    49%    71%
C. BUILDING FACILITIES
Sub-Total Building Facilities   5,492.7   0.0 5,492.7   77.4    0.0   77.4    27%       0%
D. STAFFING/RECURRENT COSTS
nf- _  _             .                                                                 -=- -
Sub-Total Staffing/Recurrent   2,660.0    0.0 2,660.0   37.5    0 0   37.5    13S       0%
(Including Consumable Materials)         -----   -----   -----  -----      -----      -----
Total Base Costs:              11,323.3  9,164.2 20,487 5  159 5  129 1  288 6   100%    45%
Physical Contingencies:        681.6   551.6  1,233.2    9 6    7.8   17.4    6%    451
Price Contingencies:         1,470 0   932 6 2,402.6   20.7   13.1   33.8    12%    39%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            13,474.8 10,648.4 24,123 2  189 8  15^ 0  339 8   118%    44X
(b)   Competitive  Funds.   The  project's  financing  of the  CEF  (including
language   training),   the  Science   Instrument   Centers,   and   the  Young
Scientists Support Program would be on the basis of competitive funding
of sub-projects prepared, appraised and implemented in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank (see Annexes 5, 6 and 7).
MOE has had some prior experience with competitive funding in higher
education through a higher education development fund, and OTKA has
operated successfully as a competitive research funding agencv since 1986.
The principal lesson learned from the MOE experience is, that the
temptation to distribute education funds equally among institutions must
be resisted. This lesson -- that not all institutions can get a little
bit of the pie -- has been fully taken into account in the design of the



- 24 -
proposed funding criteria, guidelines and award procedures of the CEF.
In line with the restructuring of the HAS, OTKA would become independent
of the HAS and would revise its operating guidelines, including interna-
tional participation by prominent non-Hungarian scientists on its review
panels.    The  Scientific  Instrumerntation  Centers  would  prepare  new
procedures for competitive applications for use of scarce and relatively
expensive equipment.   The management of these instrumentation centers
would also be strengthened with technical assistance financed under the
project. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (a)
the criteria, guidelines and procedures for awards of grants/allocation
under the CEF, the Scientific Instrument Centers and the Young Scientists
Support Program would be those agreed with the Bank as stipulated in
Annexes 5, 6 and 7; and (b) future changes to, or introduction of new
criteria, guidelines and procedures would be subject to Bank endorsement
prior to their introduction and implementation.
3.3       Bases of Costs Estimates.  The bases of the cost estimates are as
follows: (a) unit costs of consultants and fellowships are derived from
comparable costs of ongoing staff training, consultancy and exchange programs
with Western European and North American countries;  (b) equipment lists and
outline specifications have been prepared for about 80Z of the labor and
training components and for the Science Information Network while remaining
equipment costs are based on Bank staff estimates; (c) software costs are based
on comparisons with ongoing software development activities  and estimated
requirements for books and journals; (d) construction costs are based on recent
costs of remodelling training institutions; and (e) staff unit costs are based
on public sarvice salary scales. The amounts of differing types of expenditures
to be funded under the CEF and the OTKA funds are based on reviews of sample
applications which were developed prior to appraisal, and reviewed by the
appraisal mission.
3.4       Project costs include an estimated US$10.0 million in taxes on
construction and goods.   Project costs include contingency allowances for
unforeseen physical additions (US$17.4 million), equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of all project items except the CEF and the Young Scientists Support
Program Funds, which do not include physical contingencies. Price contingencies
between negotiations (February 1991) and the end of project implementation are
estimated at US$33.8 million equivalent, or 11% of base cost plus physical
contingencies.  Total contingencies represent 18% of the base cost.  Because of
the large divergence between the estimated foreign and local inflation rates,
price increases have been applied to both foreign and local costs at an annual
rate of 3.6%'", and at a fixed exchange rate of US$1.00=Ft7l.
21 The annual inflation rate for the Forint is estimated at 35I in 1991, 201 in 1992, 102 in 1993, 7% in
1994 and 5S thereafter. Using these inflation rates, a calculation of project costs expressed in Fotints
would show a large increase in price contingencies as outlined below. This calculation is of importance
to estimate the Forint amounts required for the local currency portion of the project.
---- Forint Million ----
Local  Foreign Total
Total BEase Costs:        11,323  9,164  20,487
Physical Contingencies       682   552  1,233
Price Ccntingencies        9,982  7.48C  12. 62
TCTAL PRO.ECT COSTS        21,C87  '3.196  34.283



- 25 -
3.5       The  foreign exchange  component was estimated as  follows:    (a)
fellowships   -  100%;   (b)  consultants   -  75%;   (c)  equipment   72%;   (d)
software/books/journals   -  72%;   (e)   remodelling  buildings   -  0%;   (f)
salaries/consumables - 0%; and (g) research projects - 54%.
3.6       Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project only modest additional
recurrent costs would be generated.   The recurrent costs of the employment
services and adult training programs would continue beyond the project
completion date in 1996 at Ft 0.65 billion compared to projected total
government recurrent expenditures Ft 1617.8 billion in that same year (.04%) S.
However, many of the staff working in employment services and retraining will
be redeployed from other jobs in the MOL or in the National Planning Office, and
the recurrent cost figures for the employment and training programs do not
reflect these savings. The incremental recurrent costs of the model vocational
secondary schools would be minimal since this component involves reform of
school programs without expanding the total number of schools and teachers.
Enrollments in the secondary schools overall would decline as the demographic
bulge goes into the labor force, thus leading to a net reduction in recurrent
costs at the secondary school level. Although it is difficult to predict the
incremental recurrent costs for the sub-projects under the competitive grant
programs of the CEF and OTKA, more efficient use of resources is one of the
criteria for awarding grants and this would help in reducing unit recurrent
costs.
Proiect-Financinz
3.7       The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would treat the proposed project funds
as  additional  resources  to participating  project  institutions,  i.e.,  the
ministries involved in the project would have their normal recurrent budgets
increased above the 1990 levels as a result of Bank finances supporting the
project.   The  rationale  for  treating project  funds  as additional  is that
education spending, which has been low, is now a priority in the government
budget.
3.8       The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project. The Government would finance the balance of
project costs.   Project financing would be in accordance with Table 3.3.  In
order to facilitate the completion of appropriate technical assistance
agreements, and to facilitate the further development of project preparation
activities, retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million would be included to
cover the cost of minor equipment and specialist services necessary for timely
project  start-up.    Rttroactive  financing would be  limited to expenditures
incurred prior to loan signing but after November 1, 1990.
2'3See the FY90 Structural Adjustment Loan report (No. P-5337-HU), p.44, Table
7 of Annex 1 for projected government current expenditures.



- 26 -
Table 3.3: FXRAINCG PLAN BS DIMJT CT
(US$ Million)
World    Government of   Total
Bank      Hungary
Amount    S  Amount     X Amount   S
Foroign Investment;
Consultants Services      11.9    66    6 1    34  18 0    5
Fellowships and Research  20.0   100   0.0    0 20.0       6
Goods (Adult Training)    23.2    72   8.8   28  32.0      9
Goods (Other Parts)       92.8    72  35.3   28 128.1   38
Sub-Total, Foreign Investment  147.9    75  50.2   25 198.1   58
Research Support:
Young Scientists Supp. Program   2.1    54   1.8   46  3.9  1
Sub-Total, Research          2.1    54   1.8   46  3.9       1
Local Costs:
Construction               0.0     0   92.3  100  92.3   27
Staff, Operat. and Maintenance    0.0  0   45.5  100  45.5   13
Sub-Total, Local Costs       0.0     0  137.8  100 137.8   41
Total Disbursements        150.0    44  189.8   56 339.8  100
B. Implementation.
3.9       Each project component would typically be implemented by the staff
in the existing line agencies or in secretariats attached to national councils
that are being established to carry out policy objectives under the various
components of the project. These staff would be responsible for the following:
(a)   Drafting of TORs and bidding documents for technical assistance.
For large tasks (i.e. exceeding about US$100,000), three contractors
with expertise in that particular field would normally be invited
to submit bids for a package of technical assistance (specialist
services and fellowships). Such bids would in the first instance
be evaluated on merit, with price comparisons/negotiations conducted
separately  from  the merit evaluation.    Contracts  for smaller
technical assistance tasks could be awarded following negotiations
with suppliers.  The proposed TA packaging is shown in Annex 8;
(b)   A second function of these staff would be to identify and tap local
expertise in activities such as the drafting of schedules for a
variety of project activities, preparation of equipment lists and
specifications, and conducting procurement on an international
scale. To assist the various units in carrying out these duties,
about 3 man-months of specialist services and 6 man-months of
training seminars in project management and procurement methods for
each of the four implementing agencies (i.e. the MOL, the NTC, the
CEF Secretariat and the R&D Infrastructure Coordinating Bureau)
would be included in the project.  Local expertise from existing



- 27 -
foreign trading companies would also be hired on a contract basis
to train staff or conduct procurement; and
(c)   These staff would also: (a) prepare financial and physical forecasts
about future actions required to implement their parts of the
project, (b) collect, collate and disseminate information about
progress, and (c) prepare reports and maintain liaison with all
interested parties, including the Bank.
ImRlementation of the Employment and Training Component
3.10      The MOL and the NTC, the implementing agencies for Employment and
Training programs, would both need institutional strengthening. MOL (formerly
the State Wage and Labor Office, SWLO) is still being organized and would need
considerable assistance in order to carry out its new functions. In order to
rapidly organize the recently created NTC, the project would provide technical
assistance in program development and evaluation, procurement of equipment and
services, and other activities essential to successful project implementation.
In addition to the technical expertise required for procurement (para 3.9.(b)),
the government has requested assistance from the EEC to: (a) develop the MOL
program implementation capacity and (b) establish the NTC. Terms of Reference
for this technical assistance have been prepared.
3.11      The MOL would implement the Employment Information and Services
Component. It would also take lead responsibility in developing the vocational
curriculum of the model vocational secondary schools in the Youth Training
component and work with the MOE and regional/local education authorities to
ensure coherence with overall elucation programs. The professional departments
would receive support from an Administrative Support Unit in the newly
established Department of International Relations in the MOL to carry out key
implementation and monitoring activities, e.g., preparation of tender documents,
arranging visits of external consultants, preparing accounts and audit reports,
etc.    During  negotiations  the  government  confirmed  that  it would  staff
adequately and provide other resources to the relevant professional departments
of MOL to ensure successful implementation of: (i) industrial adjustment
services, occupational and educational information; (ii) aptitude and interest
assessment, career information systems development and user training; and (iii)
job search and development.
3.12      The NTC would implement the Adult Training component.   The RTBs
would initiate and supervise adult training pr-grams. The project would include
technical  assistance  to establish  the NTC  and RTBs.    RTBs  in  the most
economically depressed areas would be established first, with emphasis on
modifying and using existing training capacity.   RLDCs would be developed to
provide the multi-functional employment and training services currently lacking
in the Hungarian training system.
3.13      During negotiations, the governr:ent confirmed that it would staff
adequately and provide other resources to the relevant professional departments
of the MOL to implement the new vocational secondary school curriculum. These
staff (to be appointed by Minister of Labor) would act as facilitators and



- 28 -
liaison officers across existing departments and with the staff of the MOE.
They would develop terms of reference for technical assistance contracts and
equipment, coordinate procurement activities among MOE, government and Bank
officials, monitor expenditures and reports to the government and the Bank.
3.14      National programs for developing curricula, and for counselIng and
training teachers at project schools would be developed as a first priority.
The MOL would establish teams of Hungarian and foreign experts to develop these
programs, or sub-contract these activities to selected institutions.   These
programs and curricula would be implemented at project schools where lead
instructors and administrators would work with the national teams to implement
the new programs.
Implementation of the Higher Education and Foreign Lanruaze Components.
3.15      The CEF, which was established on December 29, 1990, by a Decree of
the Council of Ministers, is controlled by a Managing Committee, headed by the
Minister of Education.   This Committee, consisting of 15 to 20 members, will
include two MOE nominees, a representative of the Parliamentary sub-committee
on education, one nominee each of the Conferences of University and of College
Rectors, a nominee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, a nominee of the Union
of University Staff, nominees from other ministries, a nominee each from a
public and a private enterprise, and about five local and foreign independent
members.
3.16      The Committee would invite bids for, and select on a competitive
basis, sub-projects from among proposals submitted by higher education
institutions  in Hungary.   Draft Criteria and Guidelines for the selection
process have been prepared and are summarized in Annex 5. The committee would
as necessary appoint independent referees to evaluate submissions. Sample trial
submissions were reviewed and commented upon by a Bank mission in June 1990, as
were the initial drafts of the first formal round of submissions during
appraisal in October,  1990.   These will be finalized to enable the Managing
Committee to review them and make a final selection prior to Loan Effectiveness
(June 1991). This would be followed by two more rounds of competitions in the
next two academic years.  Winning bidders would be authorized (thr.'. -  letter
of credit) to incur expenditures up to a stated foreign exchange and Forint
limit, which would enable them to enter into the necessary procurement
transactions.
3.17      An Executive Secretariat with 6 full-time professionals has been
established within the MOE to assist the CEF Managing Committee in carrying out
the necessary day-to-day administrative and managerial functions relating to the
control and operation of the CEF. The Secretariat would be strengthened with
technical assistance as outlined in para 3.9.(b). The following duties would
be among the key tasks of the Secretariat:
(a)   Organize meetings of the CEF Managing Committee and carry out its
overall mandate;
(b)   Invite bids  from among eligible  Higher  Education and Research
Institutions, including issuance of the necessary information and
guidelines therefore;



)9
(c)   A!.5i st  t hl (iCF Mai agi I , Commii ttee  in th e acnini strat ile work of
carl-Villg Out the evalu ation aniid selection process.
(d)   Itiforin successful bidders of their selection, make the contents of
thie wininiing bids known to all eligible bidders, and enter inito a
contract with the selected bidders;
(e)   Vlien warranted, inform non-select.ed bidders about the rationale for
such non-selection, and -- when appropriate -- prepare guidance as
to how such bids might be strengthened for inclusion in a later
round of bids.
(f)   Record and monitor commitments and expenditures made under the CEF,
verify and authorize payments (trom a Special Account and a Local
currency account to be created under the project as described below)
for eligible expenditures submitted by the winners of successful
bids.
(g)   Verify adherence to the rules and regulations governing the CEF,
including adherence to agreed criteria, expenditure targets and
procurement  rules,  and  hire  the  necessary  local  and  foreign
expertise to ensure compliance.
(h)   Conduct (with the assistance of the experts in (g) above ) training
seminars in the methodologies of the preparation of applications,
and relevant procurement methodologies for the benefit of actual or
potential beneficiaries of the CEF.
(i)   Prepare periodic progress reports for interested parties (including
the Bank), and maintain the necessary liaison with these parties.
3.18      The  CEF Managing  Committee would have  thre   foreign  language
specialists (50% of the total number of CEF professional staff (para 3.17) to
help it carry out its supervision of the foreign language programs.   New
programs would be funded on a competition basis according to foreign language
training objectives and proposal guidelines prepared by the CEF.  The foreign
language training sections of the MOE would also provide administrative,
planning and statistical support to the CEF secretariat to minimize the need for
a large staff in the CEF.
Implementation of Science and Technology Research
3.19      Project   Implementation        of   the   three   S&T   sub-projects
(instrumentation centers, IIF and young scientists) would be delegated by OTKA
to its R&D Infrastructure Coordination Bureau, which has gained experience of
project implementation during the first phase of IIF development, and of Bank
procurement procedures from its prior involvement in the FY88 Technology
Development Project (Loan No. 2966-HU). The functions of this Bureau would
include: preparing detailed time schedules and plans for each of the three sub-
projects (equipmiont centers, IIF and young scientists); assisting with implemen-
tation of individual project components (tendering procedures, arranging



- 30
itistaI.Iatiori of e(quipment , administration of related technical assistarnce etc.);
ass i ; ting  OTKA  as  necessary  with  implementation  and  evaluation  of  the
comipetit ioils;  monitoritng progress of the three sub-projects, and preparing
re'pOItts as necessary to OTKA and the Bank.
32(0      Technical Assistance.   Eighteen staff months of expert services
wouild he provided  for:  a)   technical  studies,  specification,  development
planining, software development,  and management development of the IIF and
inlstrulmU1entation centers; and b) expert evaluation of proposals for OTKA funding,
sciep('e pol icy studies, R&D management and program evaluation.  Starting in July
1991, zand at six-monith itntervals thereafter, OTKA would provide for Bank review
its proposals for the use of expert services for the following 12 months. The
R&D Infrastructure Coordination Bureau would administer expert contracts.
C. Procurement.
3.21      Implementing Government  Departments  in  the MOL,  NTC,  MOE  and
participating institutions of Higher Education and Research, would each be
responsible for organizing their own equipment procurement, assisted as
necessary through technical assistance (para 3.9.(b)). To assist MOL and NTC
in the procurement of equipment for the adult and youth training programs, a
technical assistance firm, specializing in procurement, would be selected on a
competitive basis in accordance with the procedures outlined in para 3.22. The
selected firm would advise on procurement and provide training to MOL and NTC
staff in the principles and techniques of procurement.  The National Bank of
Hungary  (which has  extensive  experience  in the  subject)  would also help
implementing  institutions  in  understanding  and  carrying  out  procurement
following World Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods and consultants.
Procurement of goods to be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan would
be as follows:
(a)   International ComDetitive Bidding (ICB) is expected to be used for
the procurement of bid packages for equipment with an estimated
value of US$300,000 and above each. This method of procurement is
expected to cover about 80% of project financed equipment.
Hungarian enterprises competing under ICB would be eligible for a
15% preference on the CIF value of the bids, or the amount of
customs duties, whichever is lower. Standardized bidding documents
that have been prepared through collaboration between a variety of
Hungarian Government agencies and the World BankL4J would be used as
the basic bidding documents for ICB.
(b)   Limited International Bidding (LIB) and International ShoRRinQ (IS).
LIB would be used for the procurement of sophisticated science
equipment (where only a limited number of suppliers exist), while
!JThese documents, which are suitable for bidding on a variety of equipment
types, such as general goods, computers and electronic instruments etc. are
available on request from the National Bank of Hungary.



- 31
IS would be used for small amounts of equipment where the cost of
I,  would clearly outweigh possible price gains.   Bids would be
invit.ed from at least three suppliers in at least three eligible
countries. LIB and IS could be used for equipment bid packages with
an estimated value below US$300,000 each, and aggregating less than
20% of the value of project financed equipment (US$20.8 million).
Itie  US$300,000  limit  on  individual  bids  could  be  waived  in
exceptional circumstances (by an exchange of communications between
tthe Government and the Bank) in instances where the unit cost of
items suitable for this type of procurement method exceeded
US$300,000).
(c)   Direct Contractine  would be used where equipment standardization
requirements or licenses so warrant, or in the acquisition of
intellectual properties. Under the proposed project, the main items
to be procured under this procedure are intellectual properties,
such as books, computer software, patents and copyrights (US$15.9
million).
Locally financed expenditures for works (US$92.3 million), and locally financed
goods and materials (US$39.6 million) would be procured under prevailing local
procedures which involve competitive bidding and which are judged satisfactory.
3.22      Procurement of Technical Asslstance,    Qualified firms would be
invited to submit bids for comprehensive packages of consultant services and
fellowships in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive Agency (August, 1981).
There would be a total of eight packages for technical assistance (see Annex 8
for details by sub-component).
3.23      Procurement Summary.  Table 3.4 below is an indicative summary of
the proposed procurement arrangements under the project.



32 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ Million)
28-Feb-91   -------   -------   -------   -------  -------
09 59  ICB    LIB   OTHER/b N/A  TOTAL
Fcreign  Irvestment
lechnical Assistance                     38.4        38 4
(32.3)      (32.3)
Eq.aipment                 83 3   20.8   39.6       143.8
(83.3)  ;20.8)  (0.0;    (104.2)
Scftware (Including Books)               15.9        15.9
(11.4)      (11.4)
Research Sipport
Your.g Scientists Supp Program           3.9          3.9
(2.1)       (2.1)
Local Costs:
Construction                             92.3        92.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
Staff, Operat. and Maintenance                 45,5  45.5
(0.0)  (0.0)
Total Financing Requirements  83.3   20.8  190.1  45.5  339.8
Total Bank Financing  (83.3)  (20.8)  (45.8)  (0.0) (150.0)
/a Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan
/b See para 3.21.(c).
D. Disbursements.
3.24      Disbursements would be made to cover:
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures (C.I.F) and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for equipment and materials;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for intellectual properties, such as
computer software, books, and journals;
(c)   100% of the foreign expenditures  of research contracts  (Young
Scientists); and
(d)   100% of the costs of overseas fellowships and of the foreign costs
of foreign consultancy services.
Disbursements will be administered by the National Bank of Hungary. Withdrawal
applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures against contracts
valued below US$300,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation in these cases would
be retained by the National Bank of Hungary for at least one year after receipt
by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was
made. This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and
by the visiting Banik staff upon request.



- 33 -
3I.>1)    In order to facilitate project implementation, the borrower would
establish a Special Accounit in US Dollars at the National Bank of Hungary to
cov-r the Bank's share of eligible expenditures.  The authorized amount of the
accounit will be US$10 million,  representing the average of four months of
expe,nditures.   The special account would be replenished monthly,  or at the
latest every four months, or whenever one third of the authorized amount has
been withdrawn,  whichever occurs earlier.   Documentation requirements  for
replenishment applications would follow the same procedure as described in
paragraph 3.24.   In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account
which have been reconciled by the borrower should accompany all replenishment
requests. Records of the Special Fund would be: (a) maintained by the Borrower;
(b) audited annually; and (c) made available to visiting Bank mission upon
request.
3.26      With the exception of the country pro'ile for Hungary, there are no
readily comparable disbursement profiles.   Project preparation by Hungarian
Working Parties has taken place at a very fast pace during the politically
volatile period  of  1989-90.    Because  of  this  rapidly  advancing project
preparation, the estimated disbursements are expected to be slightly faster than
the country profile (about five years). Disbursements are expected to peak in
the second and third years and tail off in the fourth and fifth years.   A
disbursement schedule reflecting this is shown in Annex 9. The project would
be scheduled for completion by December 31, 1995 and the Closing date would be
June 30, 1996.
E. Audits and Reports.
3.27      All institutions participating in the project, or its sub-projects
would submit semi-annual progress reports and annual statements of expenditures
to MOF, which would in turn prepare summary progress statements. All project
accounts, revolving funds, statements of expenditures and project beneficiaries
would be audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations the government confirmed that: (a)
progress reports would be submitted semi-annually; (b) annual audits of
acceptable scope and quality would be carried out by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) annual audit reports for the preceding fiscal year
would be made available to the Bank no later than by June 30th each year; and
(d) a mid-term review of the project's progress would be carried out by the Bank
and the Borrower by the November 30, 1993.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS.
4.1       Benefits.  The project's major benefit would bce to promote a quick
and flexible supply response to the economic reforms currently being carried
out.    Employment  services  developed by  the project would assist  in the
alleviation of unemployment and the productive re-deployment of labor.
Hungary's base of skilled workers and professionals would be expanded and
improved to the level required for it to compete successfully in a European



- 34 -
framework. The national capacity for research and technological development,
with an enhanced capability to respond to changing market needs, will be
increased through the HE and STR components of the project,
4.2       Risks.  The major risks are: (a) that the past fragmentation in the
education and training system has resulted in bureaucratic vested interests
which may try to preserve their spheres of control and delay implementation; and
(b) newly created agencies would have inadequate experience to implement major
components. The first risk is being addressed by providing a sufficient amount
of financing to induce effective participation and sharing of resources among
thie project beneficiaries, *ihile the second risk is being addressed by
incorporating technical assistance to strengthen institutional performance.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached during Negotiations
5.1       During negotiations the government gave assurances that:
(a)   the system of unemployment monitoring implemented in January 1991
would be continued on at least a quarterly basis (para. 2.5);
(b)   it would revi3w with the Bank not later than November 30 of each
yc-ar the proposed NTC and RTBs budget and programs for the following
fiscal year of the Borrower (para. 2.17);
(c)   it would  staff adequately  and provide  other  resources  to the
relevant professional departments of MOL to ensure successful
implementation of: (i) industrial adjustment services, occupational
and educational information; (ii) aptitude and interest assessment,
career information systems development and user training; and (iii)
job search and development (para. 3.11); and
(d)   it would staff adequately  and provide other  resources  to the
relevant professional departments of the MOL to implement the new
vocational  secondary  school  curriculum.    These  staff  (to  be
appointed by Minister of Labor) would act as facilitators and
liaison officers across existing departments and with the staff of
the MOE.   They would develop terms of reference for technical
assistance   contracts   and  equipment,   coordinate   procurement
activities among MOE, government and Bank officials, monitor
expenditures and reports to the government and the Bank (para.
3.13).
5.2       During negotiations the Government also gave assurances that it
would:
(a)   submit by December 31, 1991, to Parliament draft laws providing for:
(i) the autonomy of universities and colleges and a mechanism for
their normative financing, (ii) the autonomy of the HAS, and (iii)
the reform of the system of advanced training for scientists and the
awarding of scientific degrees (paras. 2.25, 2.31(c));
(b)   (i)  carry  out  and  review with  the  Bank by June  30,  1992  a
feasibility study on revenue generation and cost recovery in higher
education; and (ii) take all measures required on its part to ensure
the imj -ovement of cost recovery on the basis of the study's
recommendations, taking into consideration the comments of the Bank
(para. 2.26); and
(c)   (i) use  the criteria,  guidelines  and procedures  stipulated  in
Annexes 5,6, and 7 for awards of grants/allocation under the CEF,
the Scientific Instrument Centers and the Young Scientists Support
Program ; and (ii) review future changes to, or introduction of new
criteria, guidelines and procedures with the Bank for endorsement
prior to their introduction and implementation (para. 3.2(b)).



- 36 -
5.3       During negotiations the government confirmed that (para 3.27): (a)
progress  reports  would  be  submitted  semi-annually;  (b)  annual  audits  of
acceptable scope and quality would be carried out by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) annual audit reports for the preceding fiscal year
would be made available to the Bank no later than by June 30th each year; and
(d) a mid-term review of the project's progress would be carried out by the Bank
and the Borrower by the November 30, 1993.
B.  Conditions of Disbursement
5.4       Disbursements for goods under the adult training component of the
project will be conditional upon (para. 2.17): (a) the NTC budget having been
adopted for the borrower's fiscal year ending December 31, 1991; (b) operational
guidelines for regional training boards having been adopted and at least four
of these boards having been established and staffed; and (c) the proposed
programs and budgets of these regional training boards having been adopted for
the borrower's fiscal year ending December 31, 1991 (para. 2.17).
C. Recommendation
5.5       Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable
basis for loan of US$150 million to the Government of Hungary.



37 -
ANNEX I. TABLE 1.         POPQLATIOQ  BY SEX AND AGE GROUP
(January L988)
AGE GROUP   MALE      FEMALE       TOTAL
0-4      318,823    305,369    624,192
5-9      378,915    360,083    738,998
10-14     446,976    423,092    870,068
15-19     378,  6    357,375    736,321
20-24     338,591    318,730    657,321
25-29     345,307    332,579    677,886
30-34     457,472    443,593    901,065
35-39     410,319    407,204    817,523
40-44     351,449    354,923    706,372
45-49     318,071    341,892    659,963
50-54     287,980    327,903    615,883
55-59     292,574    340,302    632,876
60-64     265,412    331,577    596,989
65-69     199,774    280,181    479,955
70-74     126,392    191,703    318,095
75-79     118,370    199,559    317,929
80-84      55,202    109,406    164,608
85-89      20,576     47,810      68,386
90-        5,115     14,815      19,930
Total   5,116,264  5,488,096 10,604,360
S
Source : Central Statistical Office



- 38 -
ANNEX  I. TABLE 2.               COMPREHENSIVE FERTILITY  INDICATORS OF HUNGARY.
1880-1980
YEAR     LIVE BIRTHS               TOTAL         AVERAGE    REPRODUCTION    AVERAGE NO. AVERAGE NO. OF
FERTILITY (a) PARITY (al RATE            OF CHILDREN  CHILDREN BORN (c,
PER THOUSAND PER THOUSAND                          -----  -----    OF DECEASED  ----------------
POPULATION   15-49 YEAR                            GROSS  NET    MARRIED        OF        OF
MARRIED
OLD Wl1N                                              W0MEN (bI    MARRIED   VCMEN
AGED
WOMEN     50-59
1880(d)  44.4         170
1900(d)  39.7         154              5.32         4.37     2.59    1.45                  3.62
1920     31.4         117              3.80                  1.83    1.13      5.11
1940    20.0          70               2.89         1.19     0.97    4.31
1950    20.9           77.4            2.57         2.51     1.24    1.07                  2.59      3.33
1954    23.0           88.3            2.97         2.50     1.43    1.31
1960     14.7          58.9            2.02         2.18     0.98    0.91                  2.32      2.90
1962     12.9          52.5            1.80         2.15     0.87    0.81                  2.29      2.80
1970     14.7          56.6            1.96         1.88     0.95    0.91      2.65        2.01      2.42
1973     15.0          58.2            1.95         1.86     0.94    0.91      2.51        2.00      2.39
1974     17.d          69.6            2.30         1.89     1.12    1.07      2.52        1.95      2.32
1975     18.4          72.8            2.38         1.87     1.16    1.11      2.47        1.94      2.30
1976     17.5          69.9            2.26         1.84     1.10    1.06      2.42        1.94      2.28
1977     16.7          67.3            2.17         1.84     1.06    1.02      2.42        1.94      2.26
1978     15.8          64.1            2.08         1.82     1.01    0.98      2.42        1.94      2.24
1979     15.0          61.5            2.02         1.81     0.99    0.96      2.39        1.94      2.23
1980     13.9          57.6            1.92         1.82     0.94    0.91      2.34        1.89      2.14
N 0 T E:  [a]  On basis of the yearly calendar live birth rate.
(b]  From a marriage duration of 20 years or longer.
Cc) Population census data until 1973; data of the continuous registration of the populaticn for
1974-80.
[d] In the territory of Hungary prior to 1920.
S0URCES: Valentina and Bodrova (eds) Working Women in Socialist Countries: A Fertility Connection (ILO,
Geneva: 1985)



- 39 -
ANNEX I. TABLE 3.                               DISTRIBUTION OF ACTIVE EARNERS AS PER THE
BRANCHES OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
BRANCH OF THE                            1949          1960         1970         1980          1087
NATIONAL ECONOW                          ---------- T H O U 8 A N D   P E O P L E ------P ERCENT
1.  Industry                            792.9       1328.6        1813.2       1724.6       1526.2          31.2
2.  Building industry                    91.1        289.1         370.0        413.0        341.5           7.0
3.  Agriculture and                    2195.5       1831.9        1216.9        940.1        942.7          19.3
forastry
4.  Transportation,                     180.5        308.5         363.1        412.5        404.3           8.3
post, te*1com.
5.  Trade                               214.8        297.7         394.7        495.6         514.2         10.5
6.  Water management                      4.4          10.8         59.1         76.6          79.2          1.6
7.  Personal and *co-                   144.4        117.5         137.8        199.3        228.9           4.7
services /a
8.  Health, social                      152.7        268.8         382.4        540.7        610.8          12.5
and cultural rarv.
9.  Coamunal, administra-               308.2        306.8         382.4        540.7        610.8          12.5
tive and other services
T 0 T A L                         4084.9        4759.6       4988.7        5068.0       4885.2         100.0
N O T E:a/ Together with other material activities.
SOURCE: Ministry of Labor



- 40 -
ANNEX I. TABLE 4. EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUNDS OF THE LABOR FORCE IN HUNGARY
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           FINISHED
SECONDARY    SECONDARY    EDUCATIONAL
MAIN GROUPS OF                TOTAL                        6 - 7      8        PROFES-        SCHOOL         INSTITUTE
EDUCATION                                 LESS THAN        -        -          SIONAL                        OF HIGHEST
6 GRADES         G R A P E S         SCHOOL                          GRADE
1   70                                           P E R C E N T A G E
Physical occupations
Skilled laborers                 100.0            3.8      21.7      39.0        27.4            7.9              0.2
Semi-skilled laborers            100.0           16.1      38.5      41.0          1.0           2.5              0.1
Unskilled laborers               100.0          23.5       43.4      30.8          1.2           1.0              0.1
Helping fam. members of
the working members of
agricultural co-oper.            100 0          21 4       52.7      25.4         0.3            0.2              0 0
SUBTOTAL                         100.0           14.4      34.7      36.5         10.1           3 8              0 1
Intellect, occupations           100.0           0.6        5.0      27.5          1.6          45.1             20.2
Self-employed and their
helping fem. members             100.0          20.2       47.0      23.3          2.7           3.5               3.3
TOTAL                            100.0           11.2      27.9      34.1          7.8          13.9               5.1
1980
Physical occupations
Skilled laborers                 100.0            0.9       7.0      31.4         45.3          15.1               0.3
Semi-skilled laborers            100.0            8.1      24.1      55.4          6.4           5.8              0.2
Unskilled laborers               100.0           17.3      30.9      45.0          4.9           1.8              0.1
Helping fam. members of
the working members of
agricultural co-oper.            100.0           17.2      50.0      31 0          1.1           0.7              0.0
SUBTOTAL                         100.0            6 6      16.3      43,2        22.6            9.1               0.2
Intellect. occupations           100.0           0.2        1.5      18.0         4.0           49.7             26.6
Self-employed and their
helping fam. members             100.0           11.4      30.6      31.7         14.5           9.3               2.5
TOTAL                            100.0            4.8      13.7      35.4        16.9           21.1              8.1
1 9 8 4
Physical occupations
Skilled laborers                 100.0            0.5       3.6      29.9        48.4           17.3              0.3
Semi-skilled laborers            100.0            6.1      15.5      61.7         10.3           6.2              0.2
Unskilled laborers               100 0           *2.8      20.8      55.6         8.6            2.1              0.1
Helping fam. members of
the working members of
agricultural co-oper.            100.0            8.-      33.2      53.7         2.0            2.7
SUBTOTAL                         100.0            4.4      10 7      45.8        28.0           10.9              0 2
Intellect. occupations           100.0           0.1        0.5      13.1         4.8           51 1             30.4
Self-employed and their
helping fam. members             100.0            4 7      11.8      31.3        26.1           20.9               5.2
TOTAL                            100.0            3 0       7.5      35.0        20.7           23.9              9.9
SOURCE: Ministry of Labor



41  -
ANNEX I. TABLE 5. MONTHLY BASIC WAGES. PER CAPITA LABOR COSTS TO EMPLOYERS.
AND ACTUAL EARNINGS BY OCCUPATION
DENOMINATION                                   AVERAGE                    AVERAGE INCCtE I          AVERAGE INCOME II
BASIC SALARY               (STANDARDIZED)   1/   (ACTUAL)
2/
LEVEL    RELATIVE          LEVEL   RELATIVE         LEVEL      RELATIVE
HUF 3/   SIZE (I           HUF 3/  SIZE (1)         HUF 3/    SIZE (X)
Unskilled laborers                               3238    100.0            4371      100 0            4711      100.0
Semi-skilled laborers                            3755    116.0             5273     120.6            5839      123.0
Skilled laborers                                 4620     142.7           6490      148.5            7097      150.6
All manual laborers                           4151     128.3            5816      133.1            6370      135.4
Managenient clerks                               5687     175.6            7081     162.0            7197      152.8
Administrative clerks                            4298    132.7             5116     117.0            5193      110.2
All clerks                                    5208    160.8             6403      146.5           6506       138.1
Production managers                             6155    190.1             8394      192.0            9316      197.7
Mid-level managers in enterprises                8638    266.8            12389    283.4            12442      264.1
Mid-level managers in cooperatives               7328    226.3             9853    225.4             9912      210.4
All mid-level managers                        8490    262.2            12102    276.9             12156      258.0
Top executives in enterprises                   12993    395.1           20702    473.6             20756      440.6
Top executives in cooperatives                  10608    327.6            17110    391.4            17125      363.5
All top executives                           12346    381.3            19967    456.8            20013       424.8
All clerks and mid-level managers             5733    177.1             7391      169.1            7676      162.9
N 0 T E S:
1/ Labor costs to employers.
2/ Actual earnings including various benefits, profit premia etc.
3/ HUF- Hungarian forint.
SOURCE: Ministry of Labor
ANNEX I. TABLE 6. STAFF OF PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
PER THOUSAND OF WORKING AGE POPULATION (15-64)
Country                Employmeent           Employment       Total Incl.
Offices              Offices Plus   Unemployment
Network and    Benefit
Prograimne      Administration
Management
Sweden                       1                  1.4                 1.4
United Kingdom             0.9                  1.3                 1.3
Germany                    0.6                 0.9                  1.3
Denmark                    0.6                 0.8                   --
Norway                     0.6                 0.8                  0.9
Finland                    0.6                 0.8                   --
Australia                  0.5                 0.8                  1.1
Belgium                     --                 0.8                   --
Netherlands                0.4                 0.5                  1.4
Canada                     0.3                 0.7                  1.2
Austria                    0.3                 0.5                  0.7
Switzerland                0.3                 0.3                  0.4
France                     0.2                 0.5                  0.9
New Zealand                0.2                 0.4                  0.9
Spain                      0.2                   --                  --
Portugal                   0.2                 0.3                  0.3
Ireland                    0.1                 0.4                  1.2
Greece                      --                 0.1                  0.4
Turkey                      --                 0.1                  0.1
Hungary 1/                0.03                 --                   --
N 0 T E: 1/ Source: Ministry of Labor
SOURCE: Peter Scherer. A Review of National Labor Market Policies in OECD Countries.
A paper presented at the World Bank Seminar on Economic Adjustment and Social Dimensions. 1990.



- 42 -
ANNEX I. TABLE 7. ECONOMIES  IN TRSITION:   STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT  IN OECD
COUNTRIES (PARIS, 1989, OECD)
Growth and Labor market performance
Averago annual growth rates
GDP             EMPLOYMENT          LABOR FORCE        UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
1973-83  1983-88   1973-83  1983-88   1973-83  1983-88   1973   1983   1988
United States                         1.8      4.0        1.7      2.7        2.2       1.8       4.9    9,6    5.5
Canada                               3.0       4.5        2.1      2.9        2.8       2.0       5.5   11.9    7.8
Japan                                3.6       4.5        0.9       1.0       1.0      0o9        1.3    2.7    2.5
France                               2.3       2.2        0.1     -0.1        0.8       0.3       2.7    8.4   10.3
Germany                               1.6      2.6       -0.6      0.6        0.1       0.6       1.0    8.2    7.9
rtaly                                2.2       3.2        0.7      0.6        1.1       1.1       5.9    9.2   11.1
United Kingdom                       1.0       3.5       -0.5       1.7       0.4       1.1       2.1   11.2    8.5
Austria                              2.4       2.0        0.1      0.5        0.4       0.5       0.9    3.7    3.7
Belgium                               1.8      2.1       -0.4      0.6        0.7       0.        2.3   12.9   10,5
Denmark                              1.5       2.1        0.1       1.6       1.1       1.2       1.0   10.4    8.5
Finland                              2.8       3.4        0.5       0.4       0.9       0.2       2.5    5.4    4.7
Iraland                              2.5       1.4        0.5     -0.7        1.5      -0.1       5.7   14.0   16.6
Netherlands                           1.9      2.3       -0.4       1.1       1.0       0.5       3.1   15.0   12.5
Norway                               3.9       3.3        1.6       1.7       1.8       1.6       1.6    3.4    3.1
Portugal                             2.6       2.9        2.1      0.8        2.7       0.5       2.2    7.9    6.5
Spain                                 1.9      3.6       -1.4       1.1       0.4       1.4       2.2   18.2   19.5
Sweden                                1.5      2.4        0.8      0.7        0.9       0.4       2.0    2.9    1.7
Switzerland                          0.3       2.7       -0.4      0.9       -0.3       0.9       0.     0.8    0.7
Australia                            2.1       4.2        0.8       3.1       1.6       2.5       2.3    9.9    7.4
New Zealand                          0.9       1.8        1.1       0.8       1.6       0.8       0.2    5.4    5.3
Total OECD                           2.1       4.2        0.7       1.6       1.3       1.2       3.5    8.9    7.4
OECD Europe 1/                        1.8      4,2        0.       0.9        0.8       0.8       3.5   10.4   10.3
Of which:
Low unemployment countries a          2.1      2.8        0.4      0.8        0.6       0.7       1.3    3.1    2.6
High unemployment countries 3/        1.7      2.8       -0.2      0.8        0.7       0.8       2.7   10.6   10.6
Low unemployment countries 4/        2.2       4.1        1.4      2.0        1.8       1.4       3.4    7.2    4.6
N 0 T E: Percentage changes (or rates) for groups  f countries are the percentage changes (or the ratios) of
the aggregate series for the group. GDP aggregates are expressed in US dollars at constant exchange
rates.
1/ Excluding Greece, Turkey, Yugoslavia.
?/ Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland
3/ Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain
4/ Countries Listed in (2) above plus United States, Japan and Canada
SOURCES: OECD, Economic Outlook, Historical Statistics,  1960-1987.  Estimates for 1988 are from Outlook 44
(December 1988).



- 43 -
ANNEX  II.  TABLE  1.               ENROLJAENT  AND  TEACHING  STAFF  IN  EDUCATION
1983/4      1984/5      1985/6      1986/7      1987/8      1988/9    1989/90
I. P R I M A R Y
Number of Institutions               3,546       3,539       3,546       3,540       3,540        3,526       3,527
Enrollment                       1,269,899  1,286,648  1,297,818  1,299,455  1,277,257  1,242,672  1,183,573
Growth                                       1.32X       0.87X       0.13X      -1.71X      -2.711       -4.76X
Teaching Staff                      83,496      66,367      86,066      89,611      90,925       90,620      90,602
Growth                                       3,44X      -0.352       4.12X       1.47S      -0.342      -0.02X
Student-Teacher Ratio                15.21       14.90       15.08        14.50       14.05       13.71       13.06
II. S E C 0 N D O R Y
11-1. Secondary Schools
Number of Institutions                 545         553          561         587         608         645         675
Enrollment                         225,308    232,342    236,104    236,881    239,768    248,337    273,511
Growth                                       3.12S       1.621       0.33S       1.221       3.57S      10.142
Teaching Staff                      16,889      17,466      17,899      18,527      19,184       20,084      21,425
Growth                                       3.42S       2.48S       3.51S       3.55S       4.69X       6.68X
Student-Teacher Ratio                13.34       13.30       13.19       12.79        12.50       12.36       12.77
I1-2. Apprenticeship Schools L/
Number of Institutions                 269         270         274          278         284         294         299
Enrollment                         174,810    178.044    176,380    175,228    177,191    186,796    201,702
Growth                                       1.852      -0.93S      -0.65S       1.12S       5.42S        7.98X
Teaching Staff                      11,090      11,397      11,505      11,591      11,651       11,745      12,044
Growth                                       2.77S       0.95S       0.751       0.52S       0.81S       2.55X
Student-Teacher Ratio                15.76       15.62       15.33        15.12       15.21       15.90       16.75
III. H I G B E R
Number of Institutions                 58          58           58          54          54          58          57
Enrollment (regular students)   62,944         63,217      64,190      64,855      66,697       71,689      72,381
(evening students)             6,539       6,119       6,203        6,040       5,851       5,540       5,255
(correspondent students)    30,382        30,650      28,951      27,610      26,477       25,812      23,187
Evening and Correap. Sub-total  36,921         36,769      35,154      33,650      32,328       31,352      28,442
Total Students                     99,865      99,986      99,344      98,505      99,025    103,041    100,823
Growth of regular students                   0.42        1.52        1.01        2.8X        7.52         1.02
Growth of all students                       0.12       -0.62       -0.81        0.52
Teaching Staff                     14,452      14,545      14,850      15,111      15,302       16,242      16,319
Growth                                       0.62        2.12        1.82        1.32        6.1X        0.5X
Student-Teacher Ratio                4.36        4.35        4.32        4.29         4.36        4.41        4.44
Student-Teacher Ratio 2/             5.06        5.04        4.98        4.91        4.94         4.95        4.92
N 0 T E S:
1/  Excludes typing, stenography, and health care training
2/ Using full time equivalent (FTE) figures. FTE is defined as: Regular Students + 1/2.5(Evening Students)
+ 1/4(Correspondent Students)
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture



- 44 -
ANNX II. TABLE 2.                   SUMMARY DATA ON SECONDARY EDUCATION INSTITUIONS
SECONDARY SCHOOLS                          SECONDARY-LEVEL SCHOOL (APPRENTICESHIP)
GRAMMAR &  TECH        5-YEAR             TYPING &  TECH.       HEALTH-
SCHOOL          GRAMMAR  SEC. VOC.    VOC.    TECH-                  STENOGR.  VOC.        CARE                     COMBINED
YEAR            SCHOOL   SCHOOI.      SCHOOL    NICUM   TOTAL        TRAINING  TRAINING  TRAINING  TOTAL            TOTAL
No  ot Schools
1963/84              174        83        287        1        545        58        269         23        350          895
1984! 85             175        84        293        1        553        58        270         25        353          906
1985/86              179        81        300        1        561        58        274         24        356          917
1986/87              186        82        318        1        587        57        278         24        359          946
1987/88              190        85        332        1        608        56        284         25        365          973
1988/89              195        86        363        1        645        58        294         24        376        1,021
1989/90              204        89        381        1        675        63        299         29        391        1,066
No. of Tutors
1983/84            7,409       n/a      9,480      n/a    16,889        242    11,090         403    11,735        28,624
1984/85            7,709       n/a      9,757      n/a    17,466        250    11,397         399    12,046        29,512
1985/86            7,923       n/a      9,976      n/a    17,899        236    11,505         385    12,126        30,025
1986/87            8,286       n/a    10,241       n/a    18,527        253    11,591         383    12,227        30,754
1987/88            8,646       n/a    10,538       n/a    19,184        258    11,651         404    12,313        31,497
1988/89            9,103       n/a    10,981       n/a    20,084        288    11,745         434    12,467        32,551
1989/90            9,656       n/a    11,769       n!a    21,425        303    12,044         504    12.851        34,276
No of Students
1983/84          101,230       n/a   123,971       107   225,308    7,638   174,810         5,501   187.949       413,257
1984/85          104,534       n/a   127,680       128   232,342    7,705   178,044         5,548   191,297       423,639
1985/86          105,794       n/a   130,155       155   236,104    7,751   176,380         5,491   189.622       425,726
1986/87          105,194       n/a   131,517       170   236.881    7,744   175,228         5,279   188,251       425,132
1987/88          105,976       n/a   133,618       174   239,768    7,378   177,191         5,414   189,983       429,751
1988.789         108,440       n/a   139,897       n/a   248,337    7,343   186,796         5,645   199,784       448,121
1989/90          116,317       n/a   157,194       n/a   273,511    6,794   201,702         6,531   215,027       488,538
Student-Teacher Ratio
1983/84            13.66       n/a      13.08      n/a      13.34    31.56       15.76      13.65      16.02        14.44
1984/85            13.56       n/a      13.09      n/a      13.30    30.82       15.62      13.90      15.88        14.35
1985/86            13.35       n/a      13.05      n/a      13.19    32.84       15.33      14.26      15.64        14.18
1986/87            12.70       n/a      12.84      n/a      12.79    30.61       15.12      13.78      15.40        13.82
1987/88            12.26       n/a      12.68      n/a      12.50    28.60       15.21      13.40      15.43        13.64
1988/89            11.91       n/a      12.74      n/a      12.36    25.50       15.90      13.01      16.03        13.77
1989/90            12.05       n/a      13.36      n/a      12.77    22.42       16.75      12.96      ,   _        14.25
SOUJRCE Ministry of Education and Culture



-  4,5 -
ANNEX  II.  TABLE  3.                     SECONDARY  LEVEL  SCHOOLS   APPRENTICE  SCHOOLS 1
IJ88 89
A.  Location (if Practical Trai4itj
NUMBER UF STUDENTS                                          PERCENTAGE
SCHXL       FLANT       PLANT    NON-GROUP  TOTAL        SCHOOL    PLANT       AT PLANT  NON-
YEARh: Gfi.AE  .hAIN'NS   TRAINING   WORK      AND OTHER              TRAINING  TRAINING  WORK         GROUP &
SHOPS       SHOP        PLACE    TRAINING                SHOPS      SHOPS      PLACE      OTHER    TOTAL
1'.861      39,842      10,424      9,120    77.247      23.1X       51 6X      13.5     i1.81   1001
,,   6.7HD  29.l78     12,155   11,567       59.680      11.4X      48.9S      20.4S      19.4X   1001
...           3.043      11,235      13,542   22,049       49,869       6.1      22.5X      27.2X      44.2X   1001
. --   ;-   80,255      36,12    42 , i36     86,7Y6      14.8X      43.0      19.3X      22.9X   1001
8.  Numbor of Students bv Sector and Grade
MAIN GfiOUPS OF THE             ------------------------------                 ----------________________
NAT'OS  ..A:. ECONOMY                NJMBER OF STUDENTS             TOTAL          PERCENTAGE. OF STUDENTS        TOTAL
BY YEAR/GRADE                                  BY YEAR/GRADE
Industry                           44,624    34,044   28,684        107,352       57.8X      57.0X    57.5X       57.52
Construction Industry               8.697      6,577    5,717        20,991       11.32      11.02     11.5X      11.22
Agriculture and Food Industry    6,948         5,039    4,299        16,286        9.0X       8.42      8.62       8.72
Serving Industry                    3,260      2,769    1,691         7,720        4.2X       4.62      3.42       4.12
Trade and Catering                 13,323    10,977    9,262         33,562       17.2X      18.42    18.6X       18.0X
Transportation and Telecomm.          395       274        216          885        0.51       0.52      0.4S       0.51
Total            77,247    59,680   49,969        186,796      100.0%    100.02   100.0X         100.02
N 0 T E: I/ Excludes typing, stenography and health care training.
SOURCE    Ministry of Education and Culture



- 46 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 4. ADULT VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Number cf Courses by Sector. 1985/86
QUALIFICA-                                   PERCEN-             OUT OF TOTAL
TION AND           FURTHER                   TAGE (1)
NO    VOCATICNAL LINE             SEAI-SKILLED        TRAINING      TOTAL      OF TOTAL   BLUE-COLLAR    WHITE COLLAR
NUMBER OF COURSES
1     Industry                        1,434           2,294         3,728        24.00         3,077             651
2.    Construction                      271             670            941        6.06           831             110
3.    Agriculture anf Fcrestry          178             327            5CS        3.25           346             159
4     Water Management                   28              13             41        0.26            27              14
5     Land-Survey                         4              10             14        0.09             0              14
6.    Transport                         354             308            662        4.26           556             106
7.    Communication                     199             113            312        2.01           166             146
8.    Coamerce, Catering                628             268            896        5.77           388             508
9.    Materials Transport,
Packaging Technology              706             86            792        5.10           791                1
10.   Economics, Accountancy,
Administration                 451             501            952        6.13             0             952
11.   Computer Sciences                 197             757            954        6.14            92             862
12.   Law, Judiciary                    350           1,544          1,894       12.19           663           1,231
13.   Education, Culture                352           1,432          1,794       11.55             7           1,777
14.   Health                            178             613            791        5.09            55             734
15.   Others                            165           1,051          1,256        8.09           991             265
TOTAL                        5,495           9,987        15,532       100.00         7,990           7,530
SCURCES:  Ministry of Culture and Education, Ministry of Labor
ANNEX II.  TABLE 5.                  ADULT VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Completion by the Type of Education and Country, 1985/86
VOCATIONAL       FURTHER                               ALL COURSES FROM
COUNTY, TOWN            AND SEMI-        CONTINUOUS    TOTAL                        THE TOTAL
SKILLED         TRAINING
QUALIFICATION                NUMBER        X        BLUE-COLLAR  WHITE-COLLAR
NltBER OF THOSE COMPLETED COURSES
Budapest                                62,682       121,219      184,101   46.30        74,898        109,203
Baranya County                            4,935        8,570        13,505    3.40        9,776          3,729
Bacs-Kishun Count                         1,236        7,046         8,282    2.08        2,618          5,664
Bekes-County                              4,877        6,647        11,524    2.90        8,175          3,349
Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen County             10,2e7        25,466       35,753    8.99        18,817         16,936
Csongrad-County                           3,041        8,699        11,740    2.95        6,060          5,680
Fejer County                             3,216         9,601        12,817     3.22       6,467          6,350
Gyor-Sopron County                        4,514        9,972        14,486    3.64        8,195          6,291
Hajdu-Bihar County                       2,664         8,634        11,298    2.84        6,720          4.578
Heves County                              1,931        5,111         7,042    1.77        5.188          1 854
Komarom County                            6,282       16,233       22,515      5.66       7,731         14 784
Nograd County                               887        4,267         5,154     1.30       3,833          :,321
Pest County                               1,326        3,300        4,626    1.16         1,059          3,567
Somogy County                             1,997        4,577         6,574     1.65       3,903          2,671
Szabolcs-Szstmar County                  2,256         7,077         9,333    2.35        4,377          4,956
Szolnok County                           2,206         8,070        10,276    2.58        7,551          2,725
Tolna County                                846        4,613         5,459     1.37       2,587          2,872
Vas County                                3,214        4,163         7,377     1.86       5,236          2,141
Veszprem County                          3,012         7,272        10,284    2.59        7,905          2,379
Zala County                              1,668         3,808        5,476    1.38         3,372          2.104
Total                                  123,277       274,345      397,622   100.0       184,468        203,154
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture. Ministry of Labor



- 47 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 6. RETRAINING SUPPORT BY SECTOR
January - June 1988
EooNoC sEo                NUMBER OF         TWUSE PARIICIPATIE  IN RETRAINING          RETRAINING SVPPT
EMPPDYEES
NUMBER             X                    FORINTS       X
Industry                      84                3669               51.2Z               19,233,233   51.9X
Construction Industry          6                 242                3.4X                1.696,681    4.61
Agriculture and               43                 1616              22.5X                8,964,279   24.21
Forestry
Transport, Postal Service    6                   260                3.6X                2,125,845    5.7%
and Communication
Commerce                      14                1091               15.2X                4,603,888   12.4%
Water Management               1                  160               2.21                   273,026    0.7X
Non-material                   3                  130               1.8%                   183,894    0.5X
aranches
TOTAL                        157               7168               100.0X               37.080,846  100.0X
SOURCE:  Ministry of Culture and Education. Ministry of Labor



- 43 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 7.  DISTRIBUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION BY SIZE
NUMBER OF STUDENTS           -300    301-500   501-1000  1001-2500  2500-    TOTAL
AUTONcMUS !NSTITUTES            6        14           16        13          5        54
X                  112       26X          30X        242       24%      100S
INDEFENDENT FACULTIES         21         6             1         0         0        28
X                  75X       212            4%        0X        0X      1002
TOTAL                         27        20            17        13          5        82
X                  33X       24%          21%        16X        62      1002
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture
ANNEX II. TABLE 8.   ADMISSION, APPLICATION, AND ENROLLMENT IN HIGHER EDUCATION
1983/4     1984/5      1985/6       1986/7     1987/8   1988/9   1989/90
Total 1st Year Students   17,821    18,319           18,792      18.812      18,984   20.486   20,204
Domestic Students 1/.            -         -           -            -        17.536   18,043        -
Applications 2/.                 -         -                                 43,884   46.084        -
Applic/Admissions 3/.            -         -           -            -        250.25%  255.41X       -
As 2 of Those
Graduating from                 37.12    36.92        36.22        33.72      30.3X      35.72   36.22
Secondary Schools
Students Enrolled as X of
Age group Population             9.82      9.92        9.92         9.62       9.62       9.72    10.02
18-22
NOTES:
1/ Excludes foreign students (757 in 1987) and repeaters (663 in 1987).
2/ Each student filed only one application in 1987/8, while multiple
applications were permitted in 1988/9.
3/ Application/Admission ratios are different from MOE published data
since the latter are based on  planned  admission.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture



- 49 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 9. STUDENT ENROLLMENT. ADMISSION AND APPLICATIONS BY FACULTY
N U M B E R    O F    S T U D E N T S
1987x88
EVENING                                 1/
REGULAR   COURSE   CORRESP.  TOTAL  RATIO  ADMISSION  APPLC.  RATIO
FACULTY OF SCIENCES           4108         301     688      5097      5.1S      948      1928    203S
FACULTY OF LETTERS            3819         424    1609      5852      5.91      737      3129    4251
FACULTY OF LAW                2695         472    1194      4361      4.4X      505      1696    3361
UNIV  OF ECONOMICS            2743         937    1033      4713      4.81      560      1481    264S
COLLEGE OF ECONOMICS           3271       1409    1925      6605      6.7X     1070      3987    373%
ECONC*IICS TOTAL:        6014       2346    2958    11318    11.42    1630         5468    335S
TECHNICAL UNIV.               8401         105    1724    10230    10,32    1855         2996    1621
TECHNICAL COLLEGE             6655         406    3185    10246    10.31    2140         4096    1911
TECHNICAL TOTAL:        15056        511    4909    20476    20.72    3995         7092    1781
MEDICAL UNIV                   7505          0       0      7505      7.68    1210       3434    2841
MEDICAL COLLEGE                1105          0      549     1654      1.72      420       925    220X
MEDICAL TOTAL:           8610          0      549      9159      9.22     1630     4359    2672
AGRICULTURAL UNIV.            4243           0    1069      5312      5.42      895      2117    2372
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE           2337          0     866      3203      3.2t      600      1427    238X
AGRICULTURAL TOTAL:    6580            0    1935       8515     8.62    1495       3544    237X
TEACHER TRAINING             10667        821    5570    17058    17.2%    2752          8515    3092
TEACHER AND NURSERY NURSE   6686          615    5639    12940    13.12        Z255      5181    230S
EDUCATION OF ARTISTS           1212         80      85      1377      1.4X      261      2595    9942
OTHERS                         1250        281    1341      2872      2.9X      325      1250    3852
TOTAL                   66697       5851   26477    99025   100.01   16533    44757    271t
N 0 T E S:
1/  Admission target figures are those determined by MOE, and are not necessarily equal to
actual admission figures.
2/ Regular students/total full-time teaching staff.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture



- 50 -
ANNEX  II.   TABLE  10.    STUDENT  ENROLLNENT  BY  FIELD  IN  HICfGER  EDUCATION   1/
1983/4    1984/,    1985/6    1986/7    1987/8           1988/9      1989/90
UNIVE'RSITIES                33,906    33,839    33,892    34,253    35.680           37,040        38.144
S of Total                 53.9%      55.42      54.6S      54.61      53.5S        51.71         54.6X
Law                        2,508      2,568      2,633      2.655      2,695        2,776         2,874
4.01       4.2Z       4.2Z      4.2X       4.01          3.92         4.1%
Numanities                 3,256      3,318      3,557      3,596      3,819        4,097         4,369
5.2%       5.4S      5.7S       5.7X       5.71          5.7S         6.31
Natural Sciences           3,653      3,687      3,671      3,848      4,108        4,228         4,485
5.8%      6.0%        5.9%      6.1%       6.2S          5.92         8.4S
Economics                  2,600      2,549      2,585      2,619      2,743        2,939         3,066
4.1%       4.2%       4.21      4.21       4.11          4.11         4.4%
Teachers Training          1,540      1,502      1,490      1,479      1,617        1,684         1,696
2.4%       2.51       2.4%      2.42       2.42          2.3S         2.4%
Engineering                8,442      8,377      8,176      8,187      8,401        8,668        8,770
13.41      13.7%      13.2%     13.1Z      12.68         12.1        12.62
Agriculture & Vat.         4,228      4,251      4,358      4,347      4,792        4,812         5,132
6.7%       7.0%       7.0       6.9%       7.2Z         6.92         7.42
Medicine                   7,679      7,587      7,422      7,522      7,505        7,736         7.752
12.21      12.4%     12.02      12.02      11.32         10.68        11.1l
COLLEGE                      29,038    27,276    28,152    28,479    28,818           32,270        31,657
46.1%      44.6Z      45.4%     45.42      43.22         45.02        45.4%
Engineering                6,760      6,643      6,655      6,671      6,655        6,569         6,503
10.72      10.9%      10.72     10.62      10.O%          9.22         0.3Z
Agriculture                1,950      1,864      1,854      2,190      1,889        1.855         1,795
3.1%      3.02       3.0%       3.5X       2.81          2.62         2.61
Medicine                   1,036      1,020      1,044      1,b'0      1,105        1,168         1,235
1.62      1.72       1.7Z       1.6).      1.7S          1.61         1.8S
Economics                  2,117      2,102      2,146      2,123      2,205        2.352         2,580
3.41      3.42       3.52       3.42       3.3X          3.3%         3.71
Others                    17,175    17.749    18,599    18,588    19,169           22,678       22,124
27.3%      29.0%      30.0%     29.68      28.7Z         31.6S        31.7%
Total                     62,944    61,115    62,044    62,732    66,697           71,689       69,801
tO00.0%    100.0%    100.02    100.01       96.7% o/    96.7Z a/   100.0%
N 0 T E S:
I/ Regular students only.
2/ Some discrepancies were fount in total figures
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture
ANNEX II. TABLE 11.  GROWTH OF STUDENT ENROLLMENT BY FIELD
1984/5   1985/6    1986/7       1987/8      1988/9    1989/90
UNIVERSITIES              -0.2S    0.2%        1.1;        4.22        3.82        3.02
Law                     2.4%    2.5X        0.82        1.5%        3.02        3.51
Humanities              1.91    7.2%        1.12       6.22         7.3X        6.6%
Natural Sciences        0.9%   -0.4%       4.8%        6.8S        2.92         6.1X
Economics              -2.0%    1.4%        1.3%       4.72         7.12        4.3%
Teaching Training    -2,5X   -O0.81       -0.71        9.31         4.12        0.7Z
Engineering            -0.8%   -2.4Z        0.11        2.6S        3.2X        1.2Z
Agriculture & Vet.    0.5%    2.5%         -0.3%       10.21        2.5%        4.55
Medicine               -1.2%   -2.2X        1.3%       -0.2S        3,1%        0.2%
COLLEGES                  -6.1%    3.21        1.22        1.2%       12.0       -1.95
Engineering            -1.71    0.2X        0.22      -0.2S       -1.3%        -1.02
Agriculture            -4.4S   -0.5X       18.12     -13.7%        -1.8S       -3.2S
Medicine               -1.5%    2.4S       -1.3Z        7.3Z        5.72        5.7%
Economics              -0.7%    2.12       -1.l1        3.9%        6.7%        9.7X
TOTAL.                 -2.92    1.5%        1.12       6.3%         7.5S       -2.6%
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education and Culture



- 51 -
ANNEX II.  TABLE 12.    TOTAL NUMBER OF STAFF IN HIGHER EDUCATION i
1988                    18
Planned    Actual       Planned
Higher Education Total _/                40,027      37,774      40,368
Universities                         28,723       26,905      29,038
Colleges                              11.213      10,780      11,241
Postgraduate Training                     56          81          56
Postgraduate Specialist Training          35          28          35
N O T E S
1/ Includes all non-teaching staff.
2/  Includes all higher *ducation institutions.
SOURCE Financial Data Processing Institute
ANNEX II. TABLE 13. NUMBER OF TEACHING STAFF IN HIGHER EDUCATION (1987-88)
PROFESSOR    ASST.    FIRST        DEMDN-    LANGUAGE  SPORTS       COLLEGE       TOTAL         PART-TIME   TOTALS
PROF.    ASST.        STRATORS  INSTRUCT. INSTRUCT.  INSTRUCT    FULL-TIME    TEACHERS
FACULTY OF SCIENCES          117     253        412          98            36        0           0           916             36        952
FACULTY OF LETTERS           103     237        382         176           114      37           12         1,061           127       1,188
FACULTY OF LAW               42       58         88          54            14       4            0           260            86         346
UNIV  OF ECONOMICS           45      136        196         102             9       11           0           499            82         581
COLLEGES OF ECONOMICS         41     104        203          94             0       15           5           462             51        513
ECONOMICS                    86      240        399         196             9      26            5           961           133       1,094
TECHNICAL UNIVERSITIES    179        429      1,097         254           174       36           a         2,177           256       2,433
TECHNICAL COLLEGES           124     287        575         134            95      37          28          1,280            81       1,361
TECHNICAL                   303      716      1,672         388          269       73           36         3,457           337       3,794
,MEDICAL UNIVERSITIES       233      263        765       1.432            45       18           8         2,764            83       2 847
MEDICAL COLLEGES               9       11        50           14           14        4           5           107            20          127
MEDICAL                     242      274        815       1,446            59      22           13         2,871           103       2,974
AGRIC  UNIVERSITIES          157     187        395         118            58      22            8           945             37        982
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES         59      94        186           54           36      21           14           464             16        480
AGRICULTURAL                216      281        581         172            94       43          27         1,409             53      1,462
TEACHER TRAINING             99      293        599         323           69       26           13         1,422           121       1,543
TEACHER AND NURSERY NURSE  89        197        423         142            10       2            1           864            29         893
EDUCATION OR ARTISTS          72     114        129          50            16       5            3           389           251         640
OTHERS                       41       64        128          38            44       15          37           367            49         416
TOTAL                     1,410   2,727       5,628       3.083          734      253         142         13,977         1,325      15,302
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Culture



- 52 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 14,   COMPARATIVE DATA ON EDUCATION
(1986 data unless otherwise specified)
TOTAL EXPEND        TOTAL EXPEND          CAPITAL EXP. AS             CURRENT EXP. AS    UNIT RECURRENT
IN EDUCATION        IN HIGHER EDUC.       2 OF TOTAL HE                2 OF TOTAL HE         IN HE
AS 2 OF GDP         AS t OF GDP            EXPENDITURE                 EXPENDITURE           (US$/STUDENT)
AUSTRIA           6.061                  1.156                10.92Z                        89.081             5,317
GERMANY F R.    4.471                    0.96X                12.03X                        87.971             4,766
FINLAND           5.721                  1.051                 5.301                        94.705             5,295
FRANCE            5.842                  0.7112/               3.532Z/                      96.47S2/           3,728
HUNGARY           4.982                  0.65X                14.96X                        85.04X             2,010
JAPAN             5.11X                    NA                   NA                            NA               8,518
NETHERLANDS       6.802                  1,74X1/              10.09X}/                      89.91I2/           4,8591/
SWEDEN            7.38X                    NA                   NA                            NA               6,130
NOTE: 1/  1985 data.
_/  1984 data.
SOURCE:  UNESCO, Finistry of Education and Culture,  mung.ry.
ANNEX II. TABLE 14.1 GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS
TERTIARY EDUCATION
(1987 OR LATEST)I/
OECD COUNTRIES3/               MF              M              F
AUSTRALIA                     28.8            28.8          28.8 ('86)
AUSTRIA                       29.4            31.3          27.4
BELGIUM                       32,7            33.8          63.5
CANADA                        58.2            53.1          63.5
DENMARK                       29.6            29.1          30,2
r NLAND                       37.6            36.7          38.5
FRANCE                        30.9            29,7          32.0
GERMANY F.R.                  30.1            34.2          25.6 ('86)
GREECE                        26.2            25.9          26.5 ('85)
ICELAND                       21.2            22.6         23.4 ('86)
IRELAND                       24.2            27.0         21.4 ('85)
ITALY                         24.3            25.4          23.2 ('86)
JAPAN                         28.3            35.0          21.4
NETHERLANDS                   31,3            35.7          26.8 ('86)
NEW ZEALAND                   36.4            37.1          35.6
NORWAY                        35.3            34.1          36.7
PORTUGAL                      12.0            11.0          13.1 ('85)
SPAIN                         30.0            29.6          30.3 ('86)
SWEDEN                        31.2            28.8          33.7
SWITZERLAND                   23.7            31.7          15.4
UNITED KINGDOM                22.3             NA            NA
UNITED STATES                 59.6            55.5          63.7 ('86)
Simple Average:               31.1
EASTERN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
BULGARIA                      22.6            19.6          25.8
CZECHOSLOVAXIA                16.2            18.2          14,0
HUNGARYZ/                     15.2            13.8          16.7
POLAND                        17.8            15.3          20.4
ROCOANIA                       9.8             NA            NA
YUGOSLAVIA                    18.6            19.1          18.0
Simple average:               16.7
NOTES:  I/  As 2 of the age group population for 20-24.
_/ Includes evening and correspondence students.
3/ All OECD countries except Luxembourg and Turkey.
S(XIRCE: UNeSCO Statistical Yearbook 1989



- 53 -
ANNEX  II.  TABLE  15.             EXPENDITURE  OF  EDUCATIONAL  INSTITUTIONS 4/
(FORINT  MILLION;  CURRENT  PRICES)
1985      1986       1987       1988      1989        1990
ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUAL         PLAN
Education Total                                     49,365    54,264    59,855                      -          -
Recurrent expenditure                             43,177    45,595    49,547    63,043    86,890
Of which tinanced by state budget 1/            37,188    39,189    42,441    54,325    72,763
Investment                                         6,188     8,669    10,306           -          -
As X of GDP                                        4.78X      4.98X     4.88X          -          -          -
Real Grrwth                                           -       3.65X     2.07S          -
Prima.y Education  Total                            20,942    22,178    24,100    28,973            -
Recurrent Expenditure                             18,225    19,069    20,537    25,324            -
Of which financed by state budget 1/            16,089    16,905    18,222    22,782    35.025
Investment                                         2,717     3.109      3,563      3,649    32,393
As 2 of GDP                                        2.03X     2.04X      1.97X      2.05X          -          -
Real Growth                                           -      -0.08X     0.51S    -0.52X
Secondary Education Total                           10,877    13,050    14,427    17,238            -
Recurrent Expenditure                              9,180     9,684    10,496    13,499    19,504
Of which financed by state budget 1/             8,368     8.882      9,588    12,443    18.239
Investment                                         1,697     3,366      3,931      3,739          -
As X of GDP                                        1.05      1.20X     1.186      1.22X          -          -
Real Growth                                           -      12.961     2.56X      0.332          -          -
Higher Education                                     6,445      7,025     7,988    12,057    14,542    17,050
Recurrent Expenditure                              5,566      5,974     6,562    10,468    12,464    14,550
Of which financed by central budget 1/           4,973     5,238      5,735      9,854    11,805    14,080
Investment                                           879     1,051      1,426      1,589     2,078      2,500
Of which financed by central budget _/             650        800     1,100      1,250      1,700     2,100
As 2 of GDP                                        0.622      0.652     0.65X      0.85X      0.862     0.852
As X of Total Public Spending 3/                   1.022      0.982     1.01S      1.36X      1.432     1.562
Recurrent Exp per Reg. Student (thousand ft)          87         92        98        146        172          -
(USS)                     1,726     2,010      2,095      2,896      2,832          -
Real Growth in Recurrent Expenditure                  -       1.242     1.232    29.302    -2.802       0.05X
Real Growth in State subsidy for rec. exp.            -      -0.642     0.912    39.272    -2.202       2.22X
Real Growth in Investment                             -      13.222    28.292      5.322    12.69X      5.002
Real Growth in State Subsidy for Investment           -      16.542    30.01X      7.412    17.202      7.822
Enrollment in HE (regular students)                 64,190    64,855    66,697    71,689    72,381             -
(evening students)             6.203      6,040      5,851     5,540      5,255
(correspondent students)        28,951    27,610    26,447    25,812    23,187
Subtotal of evening and correspondent students   35,154    33,650    32,298    31,352    28,442
Grand total of all students enrolled                99,344    98,505    98,995   103,041   100,823
N 0 T E S:
1/ Budget from Ministry of Finance
2/ Budget from National Planning Office
3/  Total public spending includes all expenditures by public institutions, social security, interest and
production and price subsidy payments.
4/  All figures correspond to expenditures strictly related to higher education activities.  Since
many higher education institutions undertake activities outside higher education, figures shown here are
smaller than those given for total expenditures by higher education institutions.
SOURCE: Ministry of Finance, National Planning Office, Ministry of Education



- 54 -
ANNEX II. TABLE 16.       BUDGETARY EXPENDITURE PER STUDENT (Ft.)
1985        1986           1987
Kindergartens                  15,919       17,049        18,706
Primary Schoois                13,055       13,542        14,629
Secondary Education
Grammar Schools                17,339       18,189        20,357
Vocational Secondary           24,576       25,597        27,686
Apprentice                     21,448       22,609        23,909
Higher Education               78,013       82,447        89,447
N 0 T E: Calculated per student of day section.
SOURCE: Central Statistical Office



- 55 -
ANN   II. TABLE 17.                     EXPENDI-TURES FOR UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES UNDER MOE
('000 Ft.)
UNIVERSITIES                                   COLLEGES
18           989         198                                         1989
EXPENDITURE                        ACTUAL       X OF        ACTUAL    S OF        ACTUAL   X OF         ACTUAL   S OF
TOTAL      EXPEND.      TOTAL    EXPEND      TOTAL    EXPEND.    TOTAL    EXPEND.
Inventory purchases                414,866    6.052       526,455    5.071       233,103   8.03      287,992    7.78X
Wage fund                        2,175,505   31.74S   2,720.355   26.181   1,073.662  37.001  1,206,379   32.582
Material-type expenditurel/         521,712    7.61X       712,474    6.861      148,217   5.11S    166,300    4.492
Wage-type expenditure2/           1,002,995   14.641   1,264,415   12.172        511,912  17.642    596,156   16.102
Maintenance and utilities3/         783,734   11.44X       932,568    8.981      347,231  11.97X    339,722    9.17X
Social security and other
payments to government           339,957    4.96X   1,085,300   10.45X         131,733   4.542    470.083   12.69X
Major repair (reconstruction)    723,493   10.56X          713,845    6.871       95,425   3.292    135,022    3.652
Income tax                          16,079    0.232        13,053    0.132         9,426   0.322        8,827    0.242
Repayment of credits for
recurrent exp. (bonds)              3,045    0.042       92,682    0.892           0      0.002          0     0.00X
Funds transferred for recurrent
expenses                          64,689    0.942       667,688    6.432        11,994   0.41X      21,805    0,592
Total Recurrent Expenditure    6,046,075   88.22X   8,728,835   84.022   2,562,730  88.312  3,232,286   87.282
National Investment                 315,201    4,602      557,441    5.372        94,064   3.242    128,863    3.482
Management Investment                28,134    0.412        56,658    0.552          606   0.022        1,224    0.032
Initial purchase of consumable
items                              1,135    0.022         1,746    0.022         6,949   0.24X          722    0.022
Non-investment development
expenditure                       15,844    0.232        34,358    0.332         9,584   0.332      47,277    1.282
Funds transferred for
development6/                     66,001    0.962        19,119    0.18X        11,568   0.402        9,252    0.251
Total Development Expenditure    426,315    6.222         669,322    6.442       122,771   4.232    187,338    5.06S
VAT on purchased products
and services4/                   336,062    4.90X       501,658    4.832       108,460   3.742    135,969    3.672
VAT payment5/                       42,610    0.62Z        81,512    0.782        16,682   0.572       23,710    0.642
Compensation, temporary
funds transfer                     2,108    0.03        408,215    3.932        91,292   3.152    123,935    3.352
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                6,853,170  100.002  10,389,542  100.002   2,901,935 100.002  3,703,238  100.002
REAL GL1ITU                                                23.762                                      4.182
NOTES:
I/ Includes travel, books, stationary orders, cleaning and communication expenses
2/ Includes representation, student support (scholarships, food subsidy and social support).
3/ Includes rent, water heating expenses, service fees paid out, and other maintenance services.
4/ Includes all VAT payments for services and products purchased by the institutions
(e.g. for rent paid under 3).
5/ Includes VAT payment for services provided by the institutions.
6/ Funds transferred to enterprises supervised by councils.
SOURCg: Ministry of Education and Culture



- 56 -
ANNEX III, TABLE 1.    NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
(Full Time Eguivalent)
1984      1985       1986       1987
Total No. of Employees          49,360    48,745    49,148    47,227
Scientists and Engineers   22,518   22,479   22,974    22,284
SOURCE: Scientific Research and Development in 1987, Central
Statistical Office. Budapest 1989
ANNEX III. TABLE 2.    DISTRIBUTION OF SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS
ENGAGED IN R+D IN 1989
ACTUAL NO. OF
SCIENTISTS        FULL TIME EQUIV.           S OF
& ENGINEERS                                  TOTAL
HAS Research Inst.                 3,277              2,773                 12.9X
Non HAS Research Inst.             4,110              3,262                 15.22
Higher Edu. Research Units    13,991                   5,251                24.5X
Enterprise Research Units         11,157              8,504                 39.72
Other Research Units               2,733               1,637                 7.6%
35,268             21,427               100.0%
SOURCE: Hungarian Academy of Sciences



- 57 -
ANNEX III. TABLE 3.   PERCENTACE DISTRIBUTION OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHERS
BY AGE (1972-19801
YEAR/AGE                      -29     30-39    40-49    50-59        60-       TOTAL
Year
1972                         22.5      35.4      29.0      10.0       3.1       100
1977                         21.2      38.1      25.1      13.5       2.8       100
1982                         16.0      37.6      25.2      18.7       2.7       100
1987                         12.8      34.4      30.4      18.8       2.9       100
Location (1987)
R+D Institutes               12.6      33.9      30.4      19.8       2.7       100
Universities                  9.9      33.7      31.0      19.7       3.5       100
R+D Units in Enterprises   15.9        35.6      29.5      17.2       2.3       100
Others                       12.4      33.4      31.8      18.4       2.9       100
SOURCE: Hungarian Academy of Sciences
PERCENTAGE OF SCIcNTISTS
IN GIVE4 AGE GRJPS
4,
40-
*1-
30-
0
-29     30-39    40-49  50-59         60-
1972   1977 = 19i2 CM 19a7



- 58 -
ANNEX III. TABLE 4.                  ALLOCATION OF THE HUNGARIAN RESEARCH FUND
(OTKA) BY SUPERVISING MINISTRY OF R+D
INSTITUTES (Approved Subsidies 1986-88)
(Million Ft)
1986      1986      1987       1987       1988      1988
Ministry of Industry                           16     4.95X         24      4.161          6      1.51S
Ministry of Agriculture                        22     6.81S         54      9.361        47      11.84S
Ministry of Architecture                        7     2.17S          9       1.56S         3      0.761
Ministry of Education                          51    15.79S       151      26.17S       121      30.48X
Ministry of Health                             28     8.671        68      11.791        48      12.091
Hungarian Academy of Science                  179    55.42X       244      42.29S       170      42.82X
Central Geological Institute                    7      2.171         8       1.39X         2      0.501
Ministry of Env. & Water Management             3      0.932         6       1.04X                0.00X
Others                                         10     3.10X         13      2.25X                 0.00X
Total                                        323   100.00X        577    100.002        397 1/ 100.00X
N 0 T E S:
I/ The figure given in the source is 404.
SOURCE: Scientific Research and Development; Central Statistical Office 1989
ANNEX III. TABLE 5.                  NUMBER OF SCIENTISTS
PER 10.000 INHABITANTS
FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES (1982)
German Dam.Rep.                              72.4 ('81)
Soviet Union                                 53.0
Bulgaria                                     47.0
Japan                                        39.4
Czechoslovakia                               31.1
United States *                              30.3 *
Poland                                       21.8
FPR.Germany                                  20.8
Hungary                                      20.5
Finland                                      19.7 ('81)
The Netherlands                              19,7 ('81)
Norway                                       18.8
Italy                                         9.1
Ireland                                       8.9
SOURCE: Research and development in Hungary, 1989
* Incomplete coverage of data.



- 59 -
ANNEX III. TABLE 6.   PER CAPITA R+D EXPENDITURE FOR
SELECTED COUNTRIES
COUNTRIES                     R+D/CAPITA
USA                                $379
Japan                              $257
F.R.Germany                        $272
France                             $223
U.K.                               $218
Finland                            $134
Italy                               $94
Ireland                             $45
Spain                               $31
Portugal**                          $17
Hungary                             $50
SOURCE: Research and Development in Hungary, 1989
(Original Source. OECD)
ANNEX III. TABLE 7. EXPENDITURE FOR R+D
IN SELECTED COUNTRIES
COUNTRY                  YEAR    AS I OF GNP
Hungary                  1981          2.5
1984          2.4
1987          2.7 *
United States            1980          2.4
1983          2.6
1986          2.8 *
Japan                    1981          2.4
1984          2.6
1986          2.8 8
F.R.Germany              1981          2.5
1983          2.5
1985          2.7 *
France                   1979          1,8
1986          2.3 *
United Kingdom           1986          2.3 a
Israel                   1983          3.7 *
Korea, Rep. of           1986          1.8 *
Norway                   1980          1.3 *
1984          1.6
1987          1.9 *
Finland                  1981          1.2
1985          1.5
1987          1.8 a
Austria                  1981          1.2
1985          1 3
Greece                   1986          0 3 *
Pertugal                 1986          0.5 *
SOURCE:  Scientific Research and Development in 1987,
Central Statistical Bureau, 989
*SOURCE  Unesco Statistical Yearbook 1939



- 60 -
ANNEX III. TABLE 8                    SUBMITTED AND APPROVED APPLICA'rIONS OF OTKA
NfUM"ER OF        SUMBER         NUMBER OF           N2hER
APPLIC, IONS       APPROVED       APPLICATIONS       APPROVED
198o            1986          1987-88 I/         1987-88
Total Nuzber                   1926.0            761.0           1314.0            503.0
Total Subsidy (Billion Ft)    8 1                  2.1              3.3              0.4
of which:
Running Costs                     6.1              1.6              3.3              0.4
Investment                        0.4
Infrastructure Development    2.0 I/               0.1
N 0 T E S:
I/  Time period of subsidy: 1988-91. Further 0.Z billion Ft. was approved for
eatablishment of Instrument Centers between 1988-91,
2/  Investment and Infrastructure Development together.
SOURCE: Scientific Research and Development in 1987, Central Statistical Office,
Budapest 1989.
ANNEX. III. TABLE 9.                                     SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF HAS-RUN RESEARCH
INSTITUTES IN NATURAL SCIENCES
No. of Scientists                <25       25-50       '0-100        100-500        >500
& Engineers
Humber of Institutes               3           8             6              3          1
SOURCE: Hungarian Academy of Science 1988.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
HUNGARY
Human Resources Project
Employment and Training Component
Project Implementation Schedule
Improve Employment Information and Services
Objectives and Sub-Objectives            Actions                      Target Dates
(a) Provide labor                  1. Strengthen the                    FY1992-94
statistics needed to               Uniform Population Data
support operation of               Collection System
a market economv                   (quarterly household
(Central Statistics                survey) to improve
Office).                           monitoring of
unemployment.
2. Broaden the                      FY1992-93
establishment
registration data base,
including public/private
-large/small
enterprises.
3. Increase availability            FY1992-94
of current wage data by
revising/ improving
household and/or
establishment surveys.
4. Update the Consumer               'Y1992-93
Price Index and related
l7ving standard
information data bases.
5. Revise and modernize             FY1992-94
occupational &
educational/training
classification systems
and establish linkages
between them.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
6. Develop, through                 FY1992-93
analysis of census data
& implementation of
establishment surveys, a
sector/occupational
matrix system to define
occupational structure
of major sectors.
(b) Develop short and             1. Refine short-term                 FY1992-94
medium term tech-                  (6-12) month labor
niques for labor                   market analyses and
market analyses to                 train staff in all
support planning and               regional labor offices
career counseling in               in techniques.
enterprises, labor
offices and
educational/training
institutions (MOL).
2. Initiate a National              FY1992
Occupational Information
Coordinating Committee,
composed of data
developers and users, to
develop policies for
data development and
use.
3. Identify and quantify            FY1992-93
factors affecting
occupational
replacement, growth and
loss in different
sectors (including
productivity measures
and technological
changes).
4. Develop an                       FY1992-93
interactive system to
combine medium term
(1-5 year) current
occupational employment
(a6) with change
factors (b3).



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
5. Define major avenues             FY1992-93
of occupational supply,
identify qualitative and
quantitative factors
affecting supply.
6. Develop interactive              FY1992-93
system to analyze medium
term labor market demand
(b4) and supply (b5)
trends, train
enterprises and training
institutions to use and
interpret information.
(c) Refine labor                   1. Develop labor market             FY1992
components of social               modeling techniques for
policies to improve                restructuring; regional,
efficient functioning              economic and infrastruc-
of the labor market                tural development.
(MOL).
2. Improve cost-                    FY1992-93
effective utilization of
the Employment Fund by
introducing regional
evaluation, planning and
budgeting techniques.
(d) Assist displaced              1. Expand occupational &             FY1992-93
workers and youth                  educational information,
find employment by                 aptitude & interest
improving employment               assessment techniques
services (MOL).                    including developing an
automated career
information system.
2. Develop, with a                  FY1992-93
consortium of Higher
Education Institutions,
short courses and
college, graduate/post-
graduate programs for
labor office and school
counselors.
3. Refine and expand job            FY1992-93
search materials for
labor office clients and
provide training to
labor office staff.



- 64 -
4. Refine and expand                FY1991-93
industrial adjustment
services for mass layoff
situations.
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
HUNGARY
Human Resources Project
Employment and Training Component
Project Implementation Schedule
Improve Adult Training
Objectives and Sub-Objectives               Actions                    Target Dates
(a) Develop national               1. Develop NTC                       FY1991-93
initiatives and                    management and planning
services to support                systems to: (i) evaluate
adult training and                 national and regional
retraining.                        adult training
priorities, (ii) define
staff, facility, program
and administrative norms
and policies for funding
RLDCs programs.
2. Define, in coopera-              FY1992
tion with Vocational
Training Institute and
Institute for Public
Education procedures
for: (a) job analysis,
(b) skill testing and
(c) development of
modular training
materials for adult
basis and vocational
training programs.
3. Define and implement,            FY1992-93
with NTC staff or by
subcontracting, special
studies and support
systems (i.e.; evalua-
tion management,
accreditation
procedures) to determine
cost effectiveness of
adult training and
employment programs.



- 65 -
AN-NEX IV
Page 5 of 7
(b) Provide improved               1. Develop and implement             FY1991-92
adult employment and               administrative systems
training services in               and plan for RLDC/RATCs.
up to 10 regions.
2. Develop and implement            FY1991-93
modular basic education
and foreign language
programs.
3. Develop and implement            FY1991-93
customized quick-start
vocational training
procedures and programs.
4. Develop and implement            FY1991-94
core modular vocational
training programs.
5. Develop and implement            FY1991-92
small business technical
assistance programs.
6. Develop and implement            FY191-93
counseling and placement
programs.
(c) Initiate short                 1. Develop criteria for
term vocational                    identification and
training in isolated               selection mobile
areas with high                    training programs.
unemployment
1991-92).                          2. Provide mobile
training programs/
equipment in to all 8
RATCs.



- 66 -
ANNF-X IV
Page 6 of 7
HUNGARY
Human Resources Project
Employment and Training Component
Project Implementation Schedule
Improve Youth Education and Training
Objectives and Sub-Objectives           Actions                      Target Dates
(a) Develop a revised              1. Visit and review                 August
national model for                 comprehensive secondary              1991.
secondary vocational               school programs in
schools to promote                 several countries and
increased                          develop a revised model
occupational and                   for Hungarian Secondary
career choice.                     Vocational Schools
addressing: (i) basic
education, (ii)
vocational training,
(iii) bilingual training
and (iv) career
counseling.
2. Develop procurement              Jan.Mar.
unit (PCU) to serve                 1991
employment and training
components of project
(5 staff).
3. Define, with the                 August
Vocational Training                 1991.
Institute, Institute for
Public Education and
occupational advisory
committees, procedures
to be used to develop
and implement new and/or
revised: (i) basic
education and (ii)
vocational programs that
will teach skills and
knowledge common to
groups of related
occupations.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
(b) Develop revised               1. Develop revised                  FY1992-93
curriculwus with                  vocational curricula,
representatives from              including software and
Vocational Training               hardware requirements
School Centers, the               for (15) vocational
Institute for                     specialties (e.g.
Vocational Training               metalworks, electricity
and occupational                  electronics, chemical &
advisory committees.              environmental building/
construction,
agriculture, sales &
marketing, business
office, food service &
hospitality, health &
personal service,
mechanical power,
performing arts, graphic
arts & printing).
2. Develop revised and             FY1992-93
new basic education
curriculum, including
software and hardware
requirements for seven
(7) basic education
curriculums including
communications,
informatic, social
studies, natural
science, mathematics,
languages and
technology).
(c) Implement new                 1. Obtain and install               FY1992-94
curriculums in                    software & equipment and
project                           train staff to use new
centers/schools.                  basic education
curriculums in all
(approximately 60)
project schools in 20
centers.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 12
ANNEX 5
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR THE CATCHING-UP-WIT-EUROPE FUND (CEF)
The following criteria and procedures for the CEF have been
prepared by the Hungarian working teams for higher education under the
direction of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Education. These were
agreed with the Bank misslons and the call for applications (Sections I and
II) was issued in August 1990. These will be further refined and agreed upon
during negotiations for the next two rounds of competition.
I.                            CALL FOR APPLICATION
for Universities and Colleges, published by the Fund for
"CATCHING UP WITH HIGHER EDUCATION IN EUROPE"
The Hungarian Government is negotiating with the World Bank on a
loan program for a "Human Resources Project". Among others, this loan would
establish the financial basis of a program that would contribute to the
development of higher education in Hungary.
If there will be an agreement between the Hungarian Government and
the World Bank on the loan conditions, the credit contract could be signed
during the first half of 1991. Accordingly, the first part of the loan could
be used in the second half of 1991.
It is envisaged that the loan to be provided for the development
of higher education and the support to be given by the Republic of Hungary
will lead to the establishment by the Council of Ministers of a Fund for
"Catching Up With Higher Education in Europe". The Committee of the Fund,
presided by the Minister of Culture and Public Education, will allocate the
resources of the Fund through open competition.
Based on negotiations with the World Bank, the main objectives of
the loan and of the Fund, financed by this loan, are:
-     to increase the efficiency of higher education;
-     to encourage the regional coordination and cooperation between
neighboring universities and colleges;
-     to strengthen the cooperation between higher level educational and
research institutions, and the entities utilizing their output;
-     to increase the number of students in higher education;



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 12
-     to promote tho establishment of an integrated system of higher
education including college and university education and
postgraduate research;
-     the possible extension of the training form 3+2, keeping in view
the equivalence of Hungarian degrees to the European ones; and
-     to establish career oriented and consulting services in colleges
and universities, that would help manage the problems of students
selected according to the admission system.
Since a longer time is needed for the elaboration and
qualification of the applications, experts from the Ministry of Culture and
Public Education and from the World Bank have come to an agreement on drawing
up a conditional application.
The application is conditional in the sense that it precedes the
agreement between the World Bank and the Republic of Hungary, thus the actual
establishment of the Fund. In case the agreement and the establishment of the
Fund were delayed or cancelled, there would be no way to carry out the
applications. Simultaneously, the application is conditional also in the
sense that one of the fundamental conditions for the acceptance by the World
Bank of the loan contract is that the applications presented and selected by
the committee should be in accordance with the objectives of the granting of
the loan. The winning of the competition requires genuine development
activities from the given institution(s). The World Bank plans to supervise
these activities regularly. At the same time, the implementation of the
applications would enable the institution to lay the foundations of a
development with substantial potential advantage, provided that a really
competitive system will be established in the area of higher education.
II.                         CRITERIA FOR APPLICATION
Applications can be submitted by cclleges and universities, or
jointly by colleges and universities, universities and research institutes, or
universities and economic organizations.
Applications with complex development plans are welcome. Priority
will be given to applications submitted (a) collectively, by institutions of
the same region that formulate common goals and (b) in order to create the
conditions for and to implement target oriented programs supported by
additional foreign sources (e.g. TEMPUS).
The applications have to consider the implementation of the
following objectives:



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 12
a)    The genuine modernization of education and research taking into
account the economic necessities of structural adjustment,
creating conditions for modernizing the direction and management
of institutions, promoting developments that increase the number
of students in the respective educational areas;
b)    The improvement of cooperation between higher education and
research institutions, in order to raise the level and efficiency
of education and research, and to utilize the achievements of
research;
C)    The promotion of the integration between university and college
education, on the one hand, and research, on the other hand,
contribution to the establishment of universities with wide-range
training opportunities.
Considering the above objectives, financial resources (fijst of
all, in convertible currency) can be obtained in the following areas:
-     Small-and large-scale investments, large-scale repairs;
-     Purchase of machines, instruments, equipments;
-     Purchase of furniture, installations, devices;
-     Acquisition of "goods and operations" etc.;
-     Consultants and other intellectual services;
-     Intellectual property;
-     Scholarships, research missions; and
-     Invitation of guest professors, etc.
Financing of the above goals is according to the rules of the
World Bank. (See the attached materials "Guidelines to purchases financed by
loans provided by the World Bank and credits granted by the IDA" and



- 72 -
ANNE.X 5
Page 4 of 12
"Guidelines to the use of consultants employed by the beneficiaries of World
Bank loans and by the organization entitled by the World Bank to implement a
project").
Attention is called to the fact that the implementation of the
accepted tasks will not be financed by direct transfer oi resources to the
applicants, but by reimbursing, through a central bank account to be opened by
the World Bank, of the bills of purchases and services aiming at the implemen-
tation of the application goals. Complying with the rules and regulations of
the competition, as determined in the attached guidelines, is the basic
condition of reimbursing the bills.
Operational expenses, arising from the implementation of the
application, should be primarily financed by internal reserves, own incomes
and/or by coordinated resources. Consequently, the demand for additional
state support is subject to special considerations.
The detailed conceptual and technical requirements of the
application are included in the appendix.
The Committee of the Fund decides about the support to be
provided. The president of the Committee is the Minister of Culture and
Public Education.
The Committee of the Fund signs a contract with the beneficiaries.
This contract lays down the objectives, the procedures and regulations
concerning the utilization of resources, as determined by the Committee and
the World Bank, and other conditions for support. The contract may impose in
obligation of --partial--refunding of the resources provided.
Even in case of a positive response, the applicants should not
take any obligations, sign preliminary contracts and order goods and services
in advance, until they have signed a contract, on the conditions of the
approved applications, with the Fund.
The Deadline of Submitting the Applications is: October 1. 1990
The applications should be submitted to the Secretariat of the
FUND FOR CATCHING UP WITH HIGHER EDUCATION IN EUROPE, in three copies, both in
Hungarian and in English (Address: Ministry of Culture and Public Education.)
The Committee of the Fund will inform the applicants by February
15, 1991, whether their applications have been approved or rejected.
The Committee of the Fund will respond to every applicant and send
them some of the approved applications that can serve as a pattern, and r-n
provide important information for future competitions.



- 73 -
Page 5 of 12
Representatives of the institutions, whose application has been
approved, will participate in a seminar in February 1991. Here, experts will
outline the regulations and procedures determined by the World Bank.
For information, concerning questions about the application,
please, write to the address of:
Imre Vegvari
Manager of Program office Ts-4/2
1066 Budapest
Dessewffy u. 9
and
Dr. Istvan Polonyi
Deputy Director of Department
Ministry of Cilture and Public
Educatior.
1884 Budapest, P.O. Box 1



- 74 -
ANNEX 
Page 6 of 12
tII.               Sample Application and Selection Criteria
Catching-up-with-Europe Fund
Attached is a draft of the application form. In some sections
indicative responses are shown in brackets, based on a hypothetical request by
an institution for support of training for its administrative staff. These
responses are included only for guidance.
The criteria by which applications for funding will be evaluated
could include the following:
(a)   Support some or all of the following policy objectives for higher
education:
i   improvement of financing and management;
ii   improved coordination and consolidation between
neighboring institutions;
iii   integration between college and university
education and research;
iv   improvement of links between higher education
institutions, research institutes and the users
of research findings;
v   increased admissions to higher education;
and
vi   improved teaching and new courses in areas
relevant to restructuring, e.g. management,
engineering, and environment etc.
(b)   The internal consistency of the application, i.e. do its
components fit together as a coordinated conception, are there any
loose ends or extraneous elements?
(c)   Feasibility of the application in relation to the existing
resource endowment (staff, equipment, etc.) of the
applicant/applicants.
(d)   Relevance of the proposed activity to regional development
(e)   Impact of the proposed activity on employment:
i   increased employability of beneficiaries;
ii   direct job creation; and
iii   displacement of existing jobs.



- 75 -
ANNE 5
Page 7 of 12
HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM
SAMPLE APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR A SUB-PROJECT
From:           The University/College of the 
Names of co-applicants or collaborating
institutions if any.
To:             Catching up with  Europe  Fund  (CEF), Ministry of
Education, Budapest.
Subject:        Request  for support,  amounting to                     forints
for the purpose  of
Section A.   Basic Data of the Applying  Institution:
(i)    Enrollments  by Faculty and Degree  Program:
First Degree: t-                     - -- Year -----------------
Facutty/Department/Degree Program    1987      1988      1989      1990
Post Graduate Degrees:
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  .  I
__________________________________  -   I~~~~~
______________________________________  --   I~~
_________________              



- 76 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 12
(ii) Teaching and Non Teaching Staff of the Applying Institution:
Institutional Staff by       |
Level of Position          |    1987       1988       1989      1990
I: Teaching Staff:
II:  Non-Teaching Staff:
(iii) Financial Situation During   |----- Year ---------------
the Past Four Years         |
(Forints '000))               1987      1988       1989       1990
State Subsidy
Recurrent Budget
Investment Budget
Other Sources & amounts of Income:
(e.g. non-profit research,       l
profit-oriented research,       |
fees)
(iv) Supplementary information related to the current application.
(e.g. available equipment, number of staf.- in the relevant field and their
bac.'ground).



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 12
Section B. Description of Problem
Describe the problem the applicant (or applicants) intends to address.
e.g. lack of trained staff in university/college administration, inadequacy of
existing programs to equip students with right skills for employment,
inefficient use of facilities.
Section C. Proposed Solution
Describe the proposed solution, and indicate changes (if any) expected in,
inter alia, enrollments, staff-student contacts, relations with other
institutions, and revenues/expenditures.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 12
Section D. Detail.ed Description of the Request for Financial Assistance
Describe in detail the proposed activities for which financial assistance is
sought.
[EXAMPLE: As a £irst phase of its program to improve financing and management,
the University/College plans to: (a) hire an external consultant for 6 months
to help prepare a five year development plan; (b) send 3 senior staff overseas
for training in university administration; and (c) organize administrative
staff seminars for about --- junior level staff with the assistance of -
Section E. Estimated Costs and Proposed Financing
[EXAMPLE: Costs of the proposed sub-project are estimated as follows:
Project Item                           Man        Unit         Total
months      Cost          Cost
For. Mill.
Consultant in planning                xxxx         yyyyy        zzzzzz
Training abroad                       aaa          bbb          cccc
Organization of Staff seminars        ddd          eeeee        fffff
Publications & reports.                                         ggggg
Totals:                                                  jjjjjj
Financing for the above sub-project (costing jjjjjj million Forints) is
expected to be required as .ollows: 30X in 1991, 50X in 1992 and 20X in 1993.
Participants iL.r the courses have been identified and search for appropriate
consultants is in progress. We understand, that if our application is
accepted by the Government, financial assistance agaiuist the above
expenditures will be periodically forthcoming on a 1001 basis from the
Administrator of the CEF, or his appointed financial intermediary against
appropriate proofs of expenditures. As stipulated by the Hungarian Ministry of
Finance, 10 of the amount received under this request will have to be
reimbursed from the University/College income following completion of this
activity.]



- 79 -
ANMEX 5
Page 11 of 12
Section F: Procurement Methodology'/.
[     If the estimated size of a proposed construction contract is in excess
of US$1.0 million equivalent and that of equipment, vessels, materials and
furniture contracts in excess of US$0.5 million, these bids will be invited
under the appropriate International Competitive Bidding procedures2/. We
further understand, that if the size of such contracts exceeds US$5.0 million
each, contract award will be subject to prior review by the World Bank if
financed by them. Bids for equipment, furniture and materials contracts,
estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million each, will be invited under local
competitive procurement procedures in accordance with the applicable
Government Procurement Regulations. Books, films, software and periodicals
will be procured after negotiations with publishers for discount and in
accordance with international laws/conventions regarding intellectual
properties.   Education, Fellowships and Training contracts will be awarded
under the appropriate government rules. Consultancy contracts will be awarded
in accordance with the rules of the World Bank as outlined in the booklet
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency".   Research contracts will be awarded on the
basis of competitive proposals, adjudicated by agreed panels and in accordance
with procedures stipulated in the Loan Agreement between the World Bank and
the Government, dated ----.   The financing of any other expenditures, not
listed above will be submitted to the World Bank through CEF for prior
clearance.]
I/ All expenditures under the World Bank project must follow the
stipulativLub %,-- this paragraph, but many of its stipulations will not be
applicable to e."h individual application for funding.
I/ Those of the World Bank or the Government, depending on which agency
will finance the contract. We understand that the procurement rules of the
World Bank are contained in the Booklet "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits: (May 1985).



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 12
Section G: Monitoring of Progress.
It is understood, that if this application for financial assistance is
accepted, we will send semi-annual progress reports to the CEF or any other
government agency assigned to monitor progress of the CEF. These progress
reports will include both physical and financial progress reports in such
detail as may reasonably be requested by the monitoring agency.]
Signed
199
Approved.
199



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX 6
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR YOUNG SCIENTIST SUPPORT PROGRAM OF OTKA
The following criteria and procedures have been prepared by the HAS and
will be discussed for further refinements and agreement during negotiations.
I. THE ASSUMED BASIC CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SEPARATE OTKA
RESEARCH FUND FOR JUNIOR SCIENTISTS (F) AND OF THE
COMPETITION SYSTEM
If a separate support of junior scientists were accepted even in
the long run (i.e. not only for the three-year period of the World Bank
loan), the institutionally separated funds for OTKA-Research Fund for Junior
Scientists (FKA) within the OTKA budget would account for 10 percent of the
whole OTKA (amounting to a minimum of 600 to 800 million forints, at 1990
prices) for the period 1991-1995.
The present competition is the first among the two or three
compecitions to be invited in this period, which are overlapping in time and
thus may go on beyond 1995 too.
Under the present conditicns, only this, first competition
includes World Bank sources, but even so, it must be a fundamental principle
that the repayment should not burden the above mentioned fund (lOX of OTKA).
However, it is practicable to include the coverage of refunding in the OTKA
budget additionally rather than in the respective budget of agencies or
organizations supervising the grantees.
Major differences between the present and the OTKA thematic
compecition 1/3:
(a)   Time span:  second half of 1991 through 1993;
(b)   Age limit:  35 years of age;
(c)   A different system of criteria;
(d)   Decision-maker:  the newly established College of FKA resulting in
a separate property of fixed assets and in a constrained tender;
and
(e)   the institutional linkage of the applicants to their research unit
will be looser, and this will involve a lesser demand on
guarantees on the part of the institutions.



- 82 -
ANNEX6
Page 2 of 4
Since the above differences should be clearly marked in the
application forms and the accompanying instructions, as well as in the
methodology of evaluation and in the documentation of the related contracts,
it is advisable to elaborate them through adapting the documentations of the
OTKA thematic competition I/3.
II. CALL FOR APPLICATIONS
Grants from the "Research Fund for Junior Scientists" (FKA),
raised within the Hungarian Research Fund (OTKA), for the period 1991 through
1993.
The OTKA Committee invites junior researchers to submit proposals
for grants for promising and high-quality basic research topics that fit well
into the international development of science and are aimed to attain new
scientific knowledge and to explore new scientific methods and procedures.
For the purposes of this competition, as element 3 of project 5
"Development of the background of scientific research and the training of
researchers" under the World Bank Loan Program "Human Resources for Technology
Development", a total of 240 million forints (at 1990 prices) is available
from the World Bank (loan) and budgetary sources half-and-half. Applications
may be made by individuals under 35 years of age (young scientist or junior
researchers) as well as by research teams or groups composed of such
individuals. Applications for grants may also be submitted for research
programs to be carried out in international cooperation.
According to the fundamental principles of OTKA, priority is given
to proposals for basically novel and perspective research ventures. However,
considering the age of applicants and the early stage of their scientific
career, the criteria of evaluation focus on the content elements of the
research proposal and on the expectable future outcome of the given research
rather than on the past records and performance of the applicants. Priority
is also given to university students and to participants in postgraduate
training courses who are directly involved in the research and also to the
apparent collaboration between university researchers and the staff members of
the Academy's research institutes.
Applications may be made for any period between July 1, 1991 and
December 31, 1993, which may include research costs (including the expenses of
using infrastructure that forms the property of other institutions) and the
coverage of the acquisition of minor instruments and other research equipments
which do not qualify as fixed assets. (Researchers of other age-groups and
researchers' collectives, as well as investments aimed explicitly at
developing the instrumentation may be given support within the framework of
the normal thematic or infrastructure-oriented competitions of OTKA.)



- 83
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
(a)   Applications should be submitted in four copies to the OTKA
Office;
(b)   Deadline for submission:  January 31, 1991; and
(c)   Applications received after this deadline and those not meeting
the formal requirements will be left out of consideration.
The OTKA Committee will invite referees, as well as the
professionally competent scientific committees of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences to review and rank the applications. Decisions will be made by the
College of the OTKA Research Fund for Junior Scientists. Information on
decisions will be sent to applicants in June 1991.
The financial support of the approved proposals may start in
June 1991.
The applicant may ask for the opinion of a foreign expert - in
addition to the Hungarian reviewers - about the research proposals. In such
case, the applicant should submit the research proposal in a foreign language
chosen at his/her discretion.
President
of the OKTA Committee



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
III. THE PLANNED COMPOSITION OF THE COLLEGE TO MAKE
DECISIONS ON RESEARCH PROPOSALS SUBMITTED TO THE
OTKA RESEARCH FUND FOR JUNIOR SCIENTISTS (FKA)
1.          One outstanding representative, under 40 years of age, from each
of the following five branches of science: natural, engineering,
agricultural, medical, and social sciences (their designation ought to be left
to the consideration of the scientific sections of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences)
5 persons
2.          One representative of the agency engaged in granting scientific
degrees (i.e. the would-be "legal successor" of what now is the Scientific
Degree Granting Committee).
1 person
3.          One representative designated from among the members of the OTKA
Committee.
1 person
4.          One representative of the universities (a person of the rank. of
pro-rector commissioned by the Conference of Rectors).
1 person
5.          One person representing the student body of universities
(delegated by "Council", elected in democratic manner, who is to represent the
relevant age-groups).
,1 person
TOTAL      9 persons
6.          The College with elect its chairman from among its members in
consent with the Chairman of the OTKA Committee. Decisions are to be taken by
majority vote.



- 85 -
ANNE 7
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX 7
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR THE SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTATION CENTERS
The following set of criteria and procedures were developed by the
HAS and would be refined and agreed at negotiations.
I. Background
For the purposes of the competition, "Development of the background
of scientific res-earch and the training of researchers" under the World Bank Loan
for "The Human Resources Project", applications may be submitted for the period
1991 through 1993.
Version A:
Grant applications may be submitted for the setting up or extension of
disciplinary instrument centers.
Version B:
Grant application may be made for:
-     the establishment or further development or extension of instrument
centers, both regional and disciplinary;
-     the acquisition of special major research instruments (above the
value of 1 million forints); and
-     the support of research projects based on the use of instrument
centers.
Tasks of the Instrument Centers
Serving as an efficient basis for the instrument infrastructure of
scientific research, the centers are to do - or promote - complex measurement
services in the given region of the country or for scientific and higher
educational institutions falling within their disciplinary competence, or for
economic (commercial) organizations.



- 86 -
AMkEX 7
Page 2 of 8
The centers are to act as independent legal entities and are expected
to become self-supporting after one year of existence. Belonging to the sphere
of activities of the center are: a) measurement techniques and the improvement
of such methods; b) elaboration of new methods and techniques; and c) offering
occasional repair and testing or standardizing services.
Through its highly qualified experts, the center should be also
engaged in training activities necessary to make the users acquainted with the
proper use of up-to-date, more sophisticated instruments.
The center is also bound to participate in nation-wide research
endeavours, and within this, it should be able to cooperate with other regions.
II. Criteria
Preconditions for Rarticipation in the competition for establishing instruments
centers:
1)    The  applying  institution(s)  should  have  a  staff  with  high
qualifications in the given subject (field(s);
2)    The applying institute(s) is (are) expected to have achieved - both
nationally or internationally - outstanding results in introducing,
developing and applying the measurement techniques of the given
field;
3)    The center should already possess at least part of those small or
medium category modern instruments and equipments which are necessary
to the operation of that particular instrument it wishes to obtain;
4)    Applications may not make claim to support for building investments
or demands on public utilities;
5)    The clientele of the center should be large enough and - from
scientific and/or business aspects - significant enough to ensure
the appropriate and necessary use of instruments;
6)    Among the applying institutions  there should be a preliminary
agreement on the economic, legal and other conditions of operation
before submitting their applications;
7)    Priority is given to applying institutions which are able to obtain
other (e.g. company) support in addition to the OTKA grant and to
their own resources; and
8)    In case of joint applications made by several institutions,  the
institution that would act as gestor should be specified.



8~ ~ ~~~~fE 7
- 87 -~~~~~~~~~
Page 3 of 8
A22lications should contain:
1)    The applying institution(s) should have a staff with qualifications
in the given subject field(s);
2)    A  comprehensive   description  of  the  results   the  applying
institution(s) and center(s) have achieved in the domestic
introduction, improvement and application of the measurement
techniques of the given field; the list of relevant publications of
major importance; the statement of their ventures in international
cooperation, the names of those Hungarian institutions that are
expected to make demand on the center's (extended) services:
i.    professionally exact specification; and
ii.   the  present  and  prospective  main  fields  of  application
(possibly with examples).
3)    Specification of the applying institute's available instruments which
the institute could then make available for use within the framework
of the center. (Attachment 1);
4)    Detailed description, specification and prices of instruments - basic
units, complementary units, appliances, etc. - to be purchased under
the grant program. (Attachment 2);
5)    A statement of whether or not the required instrument or technique
is already available anywhere in Hungary;
6)    Description of placement and technical supply conditions (rooms,
area, air-conditioning, energy supply, etc.) which are necessary to
or are already available for the center's operation;
7)    Ideas concerning the maintenance and servicing of the center's
instruments, and their expected foreign currency demand;
8)    The amounts of national and foreign currencies necessary to cover
the expected annual material and parts requirement of the center's
operation. (Comprehensive data as in Attachment 3);
9)    Ideas of the applying institution(s) about the order of using the
center to be set up under the grant applied for.
10)   THe list of applications for the development of an existing center,
only points 1), 2), 3), 5), 6), 8), and 10).



^ 88                                 7
Page 4 of 8
Version B
In case of applications for the acquisition of special major
instruments, only those included in the preceding paragraph apply.
To applications for the support of research projects based on the
use of instrument centers, those included in the OTKA Competition (Third thematic
OTKA competition) published in November 9, 1989 of Akademiai Kozlogn (Official
Gazette of the Academy). The application should state which type of service of
a particular instrument center is needed to the successful execution of the
project.
Applications will be evaluated and reviewed - with experts involved -
by the Vice-Presidential College for the animate and inanimate natural science.
Information on the decisions will be given to the applicants in June
1991.
The financial support of the approved proposals may start in
July 1991.
Budapest, November 15, 1990.
Chairman
of the OTKA Committee



- 8° -
A   7
Page 5 of 8
AtCachment 1
Natme of the Conte,
SOat of the Center
AvUilable tnstruimnts and equipments
(List of the most tmporttnt *quipments to be made ivel[able (or use by the Center)
(To question 4 of the eppUcatton form)
Serlil     Specification, typt *nd                                                 The equipment's
number   addittonal *qutpment 0r             Manutfcturir             prosent
eutevsions                         (firm and country)    ptlce                      gturostieo   cost "feUe   nemlvalOE
(intstiution,)        ftc4q&uF,:1[on   (Mr1ntx)       In freoinc ILm  tnen 
fortnits)     currsnc,       forinti
.1                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.,,n
TOTAL:
%Notes concerning the servicesbleness of the instruments, equipasimnte



- 8g -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
Attachment 1
N`me of the Contor
Soat of the Conter
Av,elabte Instruments and equipment#
(Ltt of the moat tmportant quipments to be made available for use by the Center)
(To qusetton 4 or the eppbicttiJn form)
Serial     Specification. type end                                                  The .quipment's
number   additional equipmenT  or             Manufactuer              prosent                year  f          gross value   cosftvalue   not value          NOTE5
extersions                          (firtl end country)     place                        a tcqulilon  (ralllon     ios     e '    lmhIls'n
(Institution)                 f~~~~orintel   currencv       formicl)
Ic   (ist       (ri'llion      tn rmillion l   il
________________   Ins_ icut__ on_____r_n__s___ Irorinis                                fo in s
ThTAL
KNote concerning the serviceablenees of the instrumenue, equipmsente



- 91 -
6MMNK 7
Page 7 of 8
Attachment 3
Nsme of the Center: ....
Seat of the Center:.....
Comprehensive data to the competftion for regional and disciplinary
centers in the ftelds of research and development
1.  Number of institutions se-viced by the Center ........................................................ institutions
2.  Total demand on investment: ...............................................................                              million forints
of which in foreign currency .billion forints
3.  Offered to the establishment of the Center:
a) total of own and external investment sources: ..................................................... nmillion forints
b' gross value of machines, instruments: ............................................................. million forints
c) gross value of other fixed asets: .million forints
4. The Cen.er's annual operational costs: .million forints
of which
a) wages .million forints
b) other personal expeditures .million forints
c) other (overhead, material expenditures. etc) .million forints
5. Offered to the operation of the Center:
a) coverage of operationas cots: .million forints/yenr
b) planned coverage from returns from charges for services .million forints/yenr
6.  The Center's foreign currency demand for materials and parts .million forints/year



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 8
Attachment 4
III.  Recommended Field for the Establishment of Regional and
Interdisciplinary Instrument Centers
-     Researches in experimental physics aimed to promote interdisciplinary
applications;
-     Researches in material science;
-     Research and adaptation of up-to-date measurement techniques aimed
to explore the mechanical characteristics of buildings, mechanical
(engineering) structures and technologies;
-     Researches in chemical structures;
-     Researches in cellular and molecular biology;
-     Researches connected with the introduction of chemical processes
("chemicalization") in agriculture;
-     Physiological  and  animal  genetical  researches  connected  with
foraging;
-     Researches in monoclonal anti-materials;
-     Immune-toxicological  researches  in  the  fields  of  medical  and
agricultural sciences;
-     Researches in natural resources; and
-     Researches to explore the new means and methods of information
processing and transfer.



93 -                                           ANNEX  8
Page I of 10
HU"GARY
HLk4 RESOIJRCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              TA
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS                           .....    .         ......
28-Feb-91  .......  ....... ... *--  -             ..... - - -              .....L ocal  Foreign    Total  Technical
10:10    Type       Unit        ---- Distribution of Quantitles --- Total   Esc.          Eac.      Esc,   AssIstane
of         of        ..t- o..........................            ...f  Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency      Objective         Irput    Input        1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Input USS  000 UsS '000 USS '000  N4rber
.....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    ....., ......     ..     .....   .........  ............. . asi n cu m  gr   ase
I    IMPROVE STATISTICS, ANALYSES AND FORECAST
-  - San St
Central A:1               Fellowship m/month           3      1                                 4                 36        36          1
Stat-   Household         ConsulIant m/month                                                                                           1
istical Survey            Equipment  X spread        30X   50X   20X                         100%   1,162        463    1,625
Office                    Staff        nm/month        8     8      a     8      8            40        27                  27
A:2              Fellowship m/month           2                                        2                  18        18         1
Developnt. of   Consultant m/month            1                                        1         6        12        18         1
Registration    Equipment  X spread          50X   50S                               100X       46       145       190
Staff       n/month         9      3                                12         8                   8
A:3              Fellowship m/month           6                                        6                 54         54         1
Occupational    Consultant m/month            1                                        1         6        12        18         1
Wage             Equipment  X spread        100X                                     100X      187        97      284
Surway.          Staff       m/month         20    20    10    10    10               70       47                  47
A:4              Fellowship m/month           3      1                                 4                  36        36         1
Cnsiumer Price  Consultant m/month
Index:           Equipment  X spread        100X                                    100S       28                  28
Staff       n/month               10                                10         7                   7
A:5              FelLowship m/month           1            1                           2                  19        19         1
Development of  Consultant m/month                   2                                 2        12        26        37         1
occupational    Equipment  X spread               100X                               100X        6         2         8
Classification: Staff        m/month          3                                        3         2                   2
A:6              Feltowship m/month           2      1                                 3                  27        27         1
Matrix           Consultant m/month         0.5   0.5                                  1         6        13        18         I
Equipment  X spread        75X   25X                               100X       17                  17
Staff       r/month         3      3                                 6         4                   4



-94-                                                 ANNEX  8
Page 2 of 10
IIMGARY
HUA4A  RES0URCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         IA
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS               .....    ....         -    ......
28tFeb.91 -.- --  -- -- --    - - .              .      .       .. - --         Local Foreign  Total Technic
10:10    Type      unit       ---- Distribution of Quantities --  Total  Etc.        Ese.      Esc.   Assist,
of        of           .   . .Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Packa'
Agency     Objective        Input    Input       1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irput uS, 000         USS       000 uss  coo  uumbe
..... .. ...    .   .......  .......   ...   ...     . .. ... . ..  ...  .. .       .. .  amass=  5*84no  5a18g-   *Bass
MOL:    B(i)             Feltowship mrnonth
Labor   Short Term      Consult nt n/month          1                                      1        6       12        18 Indivi
Force   Projections     Equipment  X spread             100S                             100t               46        46
Anal-                    Staff     inmonth        120   240   240   240   240          1.080      738                78
yses
8:Cti)          Feltowship n/month
occupational    Consultant m/month          1                                      1        6       12        18
Council         Equipment  X spread       100X                                  1002
Staff      m/month
B:tiii)         Fellowship m/month         2      3                               5                 46        46
Occupational    Consultant m/month
Demand          Equipment  2 spread             100X                            100X      246       29       275
Staff      m/month        30    48    48    48    48            222      151                151
B:(iv)          Fellowship m/month          2                                     2                 18        18
occupationaL    Consuttant m/month         4                                      4        22       49        72
Analysis        Equipment  X spread
Staff      mJmonth        20    24    24    24    24            116       79                 79
B:tv)           Fellowship m/month
Occupational    Consultant m/month                1                                1        6       13        19
Supply          Equipnent  2 spread
Staff      m/month
B:(vi)          Fellowship m/month          1                                      1                 9         9
Trend Data/     Consultant m/month         2      1                               3        17       37        54
Training        Equipment  % spread
Staff      m/month
MOL:    C:ti)            Feltowship mn/month        2     2                                4                36        36
Social  Modetling       ConsuLtant m/month          2                                      2       11       25        36
Policies                Equipment  2 spread        502   50S                             100X      75       57       132
of Labor                Staff       m/month        60    25    25                         50       32                 32
C:tii)          Fellowship m/month          3     2     4                         9                 84        t4
Eaplotoent Fund Consultant m/month         2      3     1                         6        35       76       111
Equipment  X spread             502   502                       1002               43        43
Staff      m/month             360   360   360                1,080      732                732
C:0(ii)         Fellowship m/month          3     3     1                          7                64        64
Special Studie: Consultant m/month         4      1     1                         6        34       75       109
Equipment  2 spread       50S   50S                             1002     114        11      125
Staff      m/month        12    24    24                         60       40                 40



95-                                                   ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 10
HUIGARY
NUhAN RES0UCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               TA
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS 
28-Feb91    ----- -------   - -----  -- -----  ----- ---- ----- - -   Local  Foreign    Total  Technicai
10:10    Type       Unit       ---- Distribution of Quantities --- Total   Esc.           Esc.      Ese.   Assistanc
of        of.t -.                 -- --  ---- --  -- .Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency      Objective         I'nut    Irput       1991   199"  1993  1994  1995  1996  Input USS '000 USS '000 USS '000  Nuvter
.......................  .......  ....... ... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  mason3   usages   -333*   3****-
MOL:    D:(i)             Fellowthip r/month           4                                       4                  36        36         3
Enploym Occupational    Consultant m/month             2     2                                 4        23        50        73         3
Servc.  Information       Equipment  X spread               50X  5O                         100X   1,090        236    1,326
Workers                   Staff        o/month             150   150   100   100             500       342                 342
D:(ii)           Fellowship m/month          10    11    10                          31                 2U8       288         3
Counceltor       Consultant m/month           2     8    12                          22       130       285       415         3
Training         Equipsnt  X spread          33X   33X   33X                        100X      251       139       390
Staff      rnmonth         36    36   14    144   144             504       349                 349
D:Ciii)           Fellowship m/month                4                                 4                  42        42         3
Job Search       Consultant r/month                        2                          2        12        26        38         3
Equipment  X spread               40X   60S                        100X                 24        24
Staff       r/month
0:Div)           Fellowship m/month           2     4      2                          8                   79       79         4
Industrial       Consultant m/month          3   3.5       1                        7.5        43        95       138         4
Adjustment       Equipment  X spread         50X   SO%                              100X                  17       17
Staff      rnmonth         60   120   120   120   120             540       369                 369
..   ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..-*-...   =-,--.  unsun3    332    ss33s333 s33 3
6S520    3.021    9,541
,,,,,..... .. .    ..... ........... ..... ...... .....  cancan  3       33a3



-  96  -                                                ANNEX  8
Page 4 of 15
HUNIIARY
ML34AN RESOJRCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             TA
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS
28-Feb-91    -             -- - - - -- - - - -- ..-..          .         .          LocaL Foreign  Total Technicat
10:10    Type      LUnit          -.Distribution of Quantities .   Total   Esc.           Esc.      Esc.   Assistanc
of         of                      .      ---  ----  -- .Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency     Objective          Irput    Irput       1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irput USS '000 USS '000 USS '000  Number
,,, ...,,.................  .......  ..............    .......................................   ..... . . . 33.33 
It   IMPROVE ADULT TRAINING
.s....man.ws.u... S........        .3333s33333333f333S333us33usuu*sgs.a.s.nns                                                      i: 
144:    Item (a)(i):    Fellowship m/month           15                                       15                 139       139         5
Neti-   NTC  8anagement  Consultant n/month           5                                        5        28        62        90         5
onal    anc Programs    Equipment  X spread                 50X   50X                        100X                118       118
Model                     Facilities X spread       100S                                     1002       11                  11
Staff       nvmonth        60   120   120   120   120             540       369                 369
Materials/recur            202   20S   20X   20S   20S             1002     276                  276
Item (a)(ii):   FeLLowship n/month                  4                                 4                  42        42         S
Curriculum       Consultant rn/month                6                                 6        35        77       ill         5
Support          Eqjipment  X spread               502   50X                        100X                118       118
Item (a)(iii):  Fellowship rn/month                 3                                 3                  33        33         5
Special          Consultant m/month                 3                                  3       17        38        56         S
Studies          Erljipment  X spread                     50X   502                 100X                 61        61
IOL:    Item (b)(i)       FeLLowship m/month         10    10                                 20                 187       187         5
Develoc RTC/RATC          Consultant rn/month         2      2                                 4        23        50        73         5
Tef
(RATC)  Adeinistration  Equipment  X spread          502   502                               1002                912       912
Nsterials/Staffing          3S   102   172   34X   34X             1002  27,350              27,350
Facilities X spread              302   402   302                   100S  30,058              30,058
Item (b)(ii)    Fetlowship m/month            5     5                                10                  96        96         5
Basic            Consultant m/month                 2      2                           4       24        52         76        5
CurricuLa        Books       X spread             1002                              100X                 37        37
Equipment  X spread              502   502                         1002             3,448    3,448
Item (b)(iii)   Fellowship mr/month           5     5                                10                  96        96         5
Customized       Consultant m/month                 2      2                           4       24        52         76        5
Training         Equipment  X spread               502   502                        1002                945       945
Item (b)(iv)    Fetlowship m/month                 15    15                          30                 288       288         5
vocationaL       Consultant m/month                15    15                          30       177       390       567         5
CurricuLa        Books       X spread              302   402   30X                  1002                135       135
Equipment  X spread              302   402   302                   100X            14,572   14,572
Item (b)(v)      Fellowship m/month           5     5                                10                  96        96         5
Small            Consultant m/month                 2      2                           4       24        52         76        5
Business         Eq4uipment  X spread              502   502                         100X               295       295 *
Item (b)(vi)    FelLowship m/month                  5                                 5                  51        51         5
Councelling &   Consultant rn/month                                                                                           5
Placement        Equipment  X spread               50X   502                         1002               295       295



- 97 -                                                     ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 10
HUNGARY
IUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    IA
ESTIMATED QUANT!TIES AND COSYS                   .-     .- 
284feb-91  - -- - -- - -   -                                       . - -.                 Local Foreign  Total Techn:cal
10:10     Type        Unit             D Oistribution of Quantities  -  Total   Esc.            Esc.       Esc.   Assistanc
.....................          of          of         ..  .- ..... ..... .....Qty of   Costs    costs                         Costs   Package
Agency      objective          Irpit      Irput        1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  IrPut USS '000 US$ '000 USS '000  Number
.......................      .......    .......      ...    .....    ....- ....   .....    .....   .....  .....    usges  9.9s-am  causes  uxuu-x
MOL:     Item (c)(i)        f O  oI ship rm/month                2      2                             4                   43        43          5
m4obie  Criteria &          Consultant m/month                          2                             2        12         26         38         5
Train-  Design             Equipment  X spread                         50X    50S                   100X                918        918
ing
Item (c)(ii):   Fellowship n/month                                                                               5          5          5
Isplenment at 2  Consultant r/!month                    3                                   3         17        38         56          5
Regionrl          Equipment  X spread                         50X   50X                   100X               1,224      1,224
Training          Facilities X spread
Centers           Recurrent Costs/Staff                24    36      48                   108         74                   74
58,519   24,992   83,511
...3. ..... ..... ..... .....  .....  .... A    *-s3      cas3es      3at3t



-98 -                                                 ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 10
IIMGARY
HUI4A  RESOJRCE DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT                                            TA
ESTIKATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS                 -         -
28-Feb-91 .-                               - - -              . . . .Local Foreign  Total Technical
10:10    TYPO       Unit       .    O.istribution of Quantities       Total   Esc.      E-.       Esc.   Assistanc
- -    -- ------------      of          of          ... --.. --         -   - -        Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency     Objective         Input    Irsu t       ¶991  1992  1993  19    1995  1996  InpJt USS '000 USS '000 USS '000  Number
..... .....,.......... ... ....<-.-----@----*~s-w- *@ -- --"*"Z ---..............................................  .......  ....... ... ..... ..... ..... .....  .... ..... .....  Mns Bae*.Sonm
III IMPROVE YOUJTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING
MOL     Item (a)(i):    Fellowship mVmontn           10                                      10                 90        90         6
NationaIDefine Nationat Consultant nmmonth            6                                       6        34       74       108         6
Model   Model.            Staff, PIU m/month          5     S      5 5   5                   Z Z       17                 17
Item (a)(ii)    Fellowship m/month           6                                       6                 54        54         6
Assistance in   Consultant nVmonth           6     6      6                         18       104       230      334         6
ProcureXnet      Equipment  % spread       100%                                    100%                 56       56
Staff       rnmonth        60    60    60    60    60             300       203                203
Item (a)(iii):  Fellowship m/month
Define Proced.  Consultant m/month           6                                       6        34        74       108        6
for Voc. Curric Equipment  % spread               50%   50%                        100%                118      118
alL:    Item (b)(i):    Fellowship m/month                 15    15                          30                283       283         6
Develop Develop 15       Consultant rn/month               15    15                          30       177      390       567         6
Cu;ri-  voc. Curricula  Staff         sm/onth              45    45                          90       60                  60
rule
Item (b)(ii):   Fellowship m/month                 7      7                         14                 132      132         7
DOvelop Seven   Consultant rnmonth                  7     7                         14        83       182       265         7
Basic Curricula Staff        Vmnth                 7      7                         14         9                   9
"OL:    Item (c)(i):    Fellowship rm/month                20    20    20                    60                577       577         6
Inple-  Implement 15    Consultant rnVmonth                15    15    15                   45       271       595       866         6
mint    vocational       Equipment  % spread               30%   30%   40%                  100%            21,720   21.720
Curri-  Training          Focilities X spread                    30%   30%   40%            100%  31.693              31,693
cula    Curriculo        Books       X spread              30%   40%   30%                  100%                72        72
Recurrent Costs                                                          2.556               2,556
Item (c)(ii):   Fellowship m/month                20    20    20                    60                577       577         7
Implement Seven Consultant m/month                 7      7     7                   21       126      278       404         7
Basic Curricuta Equipment  % spread               30%   30%   40%                  100%             3,620    3,620
Books       % spread             30%   40%   30X                  100X                177       177
Facilities X spread
Item (c)(iii):  Fellowship m/month                 3      3                          6                 5T        57         7
Establish two   Consultent m/month                  1                                1         6        13        19         7
Audio-visual    Eouipment  % spread                      50%   50%                 100%                089       489
Centers          Staff       rVmonth              60   120   120   120             420       M2                  292



-  99  -                                               ANNEX  8
Page 7 of 10
"4JGARY
UlaiA RESCURCE DEVELOPMEIT PROJECT                                             TA
ESTIMATED QANTITIES AND COSTS                                              ......
28-Feb-91 .                                        ----- ...  - ---- - - - -   Local Foreign  Total technical
10:10    Type       unit      -.- olstributlon of Quantities -    Total   Esc.          Esc.      Esc.   Assistanc
-...--6---.....-...        of        of           ..O.. ..... .. I..         - .   ...l ty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency      Objective        Irput    lrtut        1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irtiut USS '000 USS '000 USS '000  Nlmber
...... I.._ .................  .......  ... .... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ................. '' .''.''.'.''''. '''*-a-5s-tg:gs :sssm  tuan    -*uz
CL.:   Item (d)(i):    Fltowuhip  nm/onth                  20                                20                 186      186         3
Vocat-  Develop           Corultant nm/onth                 2                                 2        12       26        37         3
ional   Model (20)       Staff       mJmonth              240   240   240   240            960       62                  662
Guidance
Item (d)(ii)    Fellowship m/month
Ilplement        Consultant n/Wnth                 2                                 2        12       26        37         3
Vocational       Equipment  % spread                     50%   50X                 100%                367      367
Guidrance model  Staff       nmonth                 7                                r5                            5
MOL:    lten (e)(i):    Fellowship m/month                  5                                                   46        4S         6
Staff   Devetop NationalConsultant m/month                  2                                 2        12       26        37         6
Train-  Staff Training  Staff        nmonth
ing
Item (e)( i):   Fellowship m/month                25    25    25                    75                 721      721         6
Impl. National  Consultant m/month                15    15    i5                    45      271         15      866         6
Staff Training  Equipment  X spread                      30X   701                 1001             2,156    2,156
Plan in 5 Cntrs Staff        nVmonth              30    60    60    60             210       146                 146
IOE:    Item (f)(i):    Feltlowship m/month                15                                1S                 I"       144         6
si-     Develop Biling. Consultant m/month                  5                                 5        29       64        93         6
Lingual Training
item (f)(ii):   Fellowship m/month                                                                       5        5         6
lnplmt Biling.  Consultant m/month                40    40    30                   110      659    1,450    2,109           6
Vocational Trg  Equipnent  X spread                      301   70X                 100S                370      370
.. .,   ,  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... S-gt33  332252   :3333    :3=
37,47    36,038   73,509
.....z...  .....3............... ..... 3.....                253x 3xxozc3  :333   33a=.



-  100  -                                             ANNEX  8
Page 8 of 10
HMUGARY
HUNAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            TA
ESTIMATED OUANTITIES AND COSTS                 -            -
28-Feb-91    -              -          -           - - -   . . .      .           Local Foreign  Total Technical
10:10    Type       Unit      -... Distribution of Quantities --- Total   Esc.         Esc.      Esc.   Assistanc
-     o of       of            .- -.     --                   -ty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency     Objective         Input    Input       1 91  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irput uSS '000 USS '000 uSS  000  Namber
.....                                                    ..................  .......  .......... . ... ..... ....... ....... .....-. .....'' .....''' .'....  Z-*agg- 8  
IV. LANGUAGE TRAINING
Lang-   Provide LenguageFellowship rVmonth         120   180   200   180                  680              4,038    4,036          8
uage    Trng Capacity   Visits    rnmonth           20    20    20    20                   80                4 73      473         8
Train-  in and out of   Consultant rnmonth         100   130   150   120                  500    2,962    5,925    8,887           8
ing     SchooL.          Equ1pment  X spread        102   302   502   102                 1005   1,185    1,423    2,608
Insti-                   Software   X spread        102   302   50X   10X                 100X               119       119
tute                     Facilities X spread        202   30X   502                       1002     586                 586
Main & Ops 2 spread        52   202   252   50S                  1002   2,422              2,422
Staff      2 spread       15X   252   302   302                 1002   3,576               3,576
... ..... ..... ...... ................................  sa-a S8zA zzzz5=3 =axz=::
10,733   11,977   22,710
........   .......           . .....  ..... .....   ........ .... .....  r==  :==:::



-  101 -                                               ANEX  t3
Page 9 of 10
HIIARUY
HUKUI RESOiCE DEVELOP9ENT PROJECT                                              TA
ESTIK.ATED QUANTITIES AND COSTS                 .       ..        ...
28-Feb 91 -             -                                                     -.. . .   LOCal Foreign  Total Technicat
10.10    Type       4nit          - Distribution of Quantities        Total   Esc.      Esc.      Eac.   Assistanc
-..........          .      ot         of                            -                Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Agency     ObJective         Irput    Input        1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  IruPUt US$ '000 USS '000 USS '000  Nuiber
V. HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
s.--*...
WE      Item 0l)          Fettowshio rn/month       120   400   400   400   200           1,520              9,729    9,729 Individua
(Higher Fi'a ncing the   Conauttar, m/sonth         20    20    20    20    20              100      547    1,203    1,750 Individua
Educ)   "Catching up    Reoarch   % spread           20%   2S%   25%   20%   10%            100%
With Europe      Equflpnt  % spread                8%   24%  38    30%             100%   3,386   32,480   35,865
Funid.           Software   % spread               8X   24%   38%   30%            100%   4,514   11,286   15,800
Facilities % spread               8%   24Z   38%   30%            100%  29,907              29,907
staff      % spread        20%   25%   25.i  20%   10%            100%   4,581               4,581
... ..... ......    . .. ....  .. . .8..... .........'. ..... . gaSSma  ussx  ssau
42,934   54,698   97,632
...... .. ..... ..... ...... ..... .....  ...... .....        g .. S   .%seS  -g.--.:



-  102 -                                                ANNEX  8
Page 10 of 10
NWUIA  ESGMCI OtELOP9ENT PROJECT                                                TA
STIMATED OJAWTITIES AND COSTS                       .    -
28'Feb91                                   ...Local Foteign  Total Technical
10:10    Type       Unit          -.DitrlbUtion of 04untitles          Total   Fac.       Esc.      Esc.   Assistanc
.......................                 of        .................. ...                Oty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Packaqe
Agency      Objective        Iirpt    iut         1991  192  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irput USS '000 USS '000 usS '000  Ni.rber
VI. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
OTKA    Instrutmnt
Centers          Equlpnt X  Wpred   The           y dlsttibutlon for oll the               ',003   10,457   25,460
It_  uwnder S&T (except for staff)
Is done thru I o wlts/yaar, not X spread
Infor tion       Comuters     spreod                                                       16,815    6,682   23,497
Network
Infrastructure
OTKA Fund        Rosearch   X spraod                                                        1,794    2,110    3,904
=+... .... .. .... .. .... .. ..... .. ...... .. .....  .*.F.sw ====:=  =:= .= ...........;:
33,611    19,250   52, 41
........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  ..'.'... ''''''a::=::   :=      =:-        z-::==



- 103 -
Annex 9
HUNGARY
Human Resource Development Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Schedule of Disbursements
I B R D         |  Disbursements               Disbursement Profile
Fiscal           -------------------------      This      Hungary a/
Year &          | Quarter       Cumulative | Project       Average
Quarter          ----- US$ Millions ------ -------- % -----------
I  1 1 -~~~IsI                    - I
FY92
First      I        0.0           0.0 |        0.0 |
Second             10.0 |        10.0 I        6.7 I         6.0 I
Third      I        5.0          15.0 I       10.0                         .
Fourth     I        5.0 I        20.0 |       13.3 |       14.0
FY93
First      I        8.8 I        28.8 I       19.2 I             I
Second     j        8.8 |        37.5 |       25.0 |       24.0 |
Third      |        8.8 |        46.3 |       30.8 |
Fourth     !        8.8 I        55.0 I       36.7         34.0
FY94
First      I       12.5 I        67.5         45.0 I             I
Second             12.5 i        80.0 |       53.3 |       45.0 |
Third      I       12.5 I        92.5 I       61.7 |             I
Fourth     |       12.5 |       105.0 |       70.0 |       56.0 |
FY95            I
First      |       10.0 |       115.0 I       76.7
Second     |       10.0 |       125.0 |       8t.3 I       67.0
Third      |       10.0 I       135.0 |       90.0
Fourth     |       10.0 |       145.0 |       96.7 |       75.0
FY96
First               2.5 |       147.5 |       98.3
Second     I        2.5 I       150.0 |      100.0 I       86.0
I            I
I       94.01
a/ The country profile for Sector Investment Lending.



- 104 -
ANNEX 10
,ANNS 10
Bibliography of Materials in the Project File
1.    Hungary:  The Transition to a Market Economy -- Critical Human Resources
Issues (Bank Report No. 8665-HU, Green Cover, August 1990)
2.    Council of Mirnisters Decree on Human Resources Program (October 1990)
3.    Adult Training Investment Program, MOL (July 1990)
4.    Updated Unemployment Scenarios (Bank Project Team, December 1990)
5.    Vocational Secondary Reform Investments, MOL and Appraisal Mission
(October 1990)
6.    Higher Education Investment Program, MOE (June 1990)
7.    Higher Education Sample Proposals for CEF (June 1990)
8.    First Round Draft Proposals for CEF (October 1990)
9.    HAS Investment Plan for IIF, HAS (October 1990)
10.   HAS Report on Previous Operations of OTKA (October 1989)
11.   HAS Report on Scientific Instrumentation Centers (October 1990)
12.   Project Implementation Manual (December 1990).



