Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8779
PROJECT CMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NANIA SEWERGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1814-PH)
JUNE 22, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
.  }s document has a reslited       and may be wsed by      o Ia I  ths pedorMaMe- of
tdhi ole  dude Its cantent may not owe  bo db    d e      Wowd 8a=      _



-CUR
Currency Unit  -    Peso (P)
_ARES AND EOUIVALENTS
mn    - millimeter                    -  0.04 inches
m      - meter                        -  3.28 feet
km     - kilometer                    -  0.62 miles
sq km -  square kilometer             -  0.39 square miles
ha     - hectare                      -  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres
cu m   -  cubic meter                 -  264 US gallons
cu m/m -  cubic meters per month      -  8,030 US gallons per month
cu m/s -  cubic meters per second    -  22.8 million US gallons per day
1     -  liter                        -  0.26 US gallons
lcd   -  liters per capita per day   -  0.26 US gallons per capita per day
m/s   - meters per second             -  3.28 feet per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
EMB         -     Environmental Management Bureau
LWUA        -     Local Water Utilities Administration
METROSS    -      Manila Sewerage-and Sanitation Project
MmA         -    Metropolitan Manila Area
HMC         -     Metropolitan Manila Commission
MWSS        -    Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NFW         -     Ministry of Public Works
NHA         -     National Housing Administration
NPCC        -     National Pollution Control Commission
PEA         -     Public Estate Authority
UP          -    University of the Philippines
MWSS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31



TM WORLD IANK         FOR OFCI~AL USE ONLY
ThIf WCORD t M
Wahungoe. DC 2043)
U.s A
June 22, 1990
MEKORANDUM TO THE EXfCUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Philippines
Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Loan 1814-P)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled Project
Completion Report on Philippines - Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Loan
l814-PH)u prepared by the Asia Regional Ofiice with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Depar vent at this time.
Attachment
Iof thek olc Xdud  It eto may aot odr    be  discl wdthou W=X5*s kon.I



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHDLPPNSS
NMANA 3 R ACAnD SAMITATIN PROJECT (LOAN 1814-PHI
Table of Contents
E«Ge No.
Preface   ..........................                               .
Evaluation Summary  . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .1
1. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . .          2
4. Project Organization and Design  . . . . . . . . . .          2
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
6. Project Results.                                              6
7. Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
8. Bank Performance.                                             8
9. Borrower/Implementation Agency Performance . . . . .          9
10. Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
11. Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . .         9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .        10
A. Project Implementation and Costs . . . . . . . . . .         10
B.  Project Performance and Re-evaluation  . . . . . . .        18
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . .        21
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
a) Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
b) Issues Raised  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
3. Loan Disbursements
a) Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  .          24
b) Original and Final Allocation of Proceeds  . . . .        25
4. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        26
5. Project Costs and Financing
a) Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        28
b) Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        29
6. Project Results
a) Direct Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
b) Economic Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
c) Financial lpact   ..32
d) Studies  ..33
This document has a restcWd distribution andnmay be used by recipients only In the peorfom
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorition.



Table of Contents (Continued}
7. Status of Major Covenanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      35
8. Use of Bank Resources
a) Staff/Consultant Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      37
b) Bank Nissions  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......   .     38
ANEES
Annex 1: Description of the Project  . . . . . . . . . .      40



- i -
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1814-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Manila Sewerage and
Sanitation Project for which Loan 1814-PH, in the amount of US$63.0 million,
to the Republic of the Philippines was approved on March 20, 1980. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1988, three years behind schedule. During project
implementation, US$18.50 million of the loan amount was cancelled at the
request of the Borrower. The final disbursed amount was US$44.5 million, and
the final disbursement was made on July 10, 1989.
Parallel financing, in the amount of US$42.8 million, was provided by
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for part of the project.  The ADB loan, of
which US$13.35 million had beer, cancelled, was closed on December 31, 1989.
Several months after the Bank loan became effective, the Borrower also
arranged for the use of Swiss transfer credits, amounting to about US$6.6
million equivalent, to finance part of the cost of consulting services
required for design of the next stage water supply project for Manila.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department II, of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and III) and the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage
System (MWSS), the implementing agency (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR (except for Part II) is based, inter alia, on:
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements and amendments
made to those agreements; supervision reports; progress reports;
correspondence between the Bank, the Borrower and MWSS; disbursement records;
and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
MANIlA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1814-Pj-l
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Proiect and Its Objgetives
i.    The project was intended to improve environmental sanitation 'n the
Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA), with special emphasis on densely populated
low-income areas, and to develop institutional capacity to plan, implement and
manage sewerage, sanitation and drainage facilities. The major components
were: rehabilitation of the deteriorated sanitary sewer system in central
Manila; extension of sanitary severs into adjacent areas (about 640 ha);
construction of combined sanitary and storm water drains in about 1,400 ha of
low-income areas; upgrading of combined sewer and septic tank maintenance
operations; establishment of programs to monitor public health in the low-
income areas and the marine environment in Manila Bay; the design of the next
stage water supply (including construction of d'version tunnels for the
proposed Laiban Dam), sanitation and sewerage projects; and training (Part I,
paras. 3.1, 3.4; Part II, paras. 2.1, 2.9; Part III-4; and Annex 1).
ii. The project was innovative. It originated in a Sewerage Master Plan,
which was at first focused almost entirely on conventional sanitary sewer
systems. Increased concern about improving sanitation in poor urban areas of
HMA, which would benefit little from conventional sanitary sewers, resulted in
development of the combined drainage component, by which combined drains or
sewers would remove wastewaters from the immediate environment and reduce the
health hazards of exposure to sewage. This became the major project
component. Areas were classified by the degree of health hazard and
priorities were established and incorporated into a master plan for combined
drains. The project was the first phase of the master plan. A wastewater
disposal charge waa to be imposed on all properties with water service,
including those not connected to the sewer system, as a means of recovering
part of the cost of the combined drainage component (Part I, paras. 2.3, 4.5,
4.6).
Implemeutation Experience
iii. The project was well prepared. Feasibility studies and preliminary
designs benefited from extensive involvement of local agencies and evaluation
of issues by urban, environmental and infrastructure units within the Bank.
The wastewater disposal charge was implemented fairly promptly, despite its
unpopularity, and has helped to maintain an income level sufficient to cover
operati.on and maintenance costs of the sewerage/sanitation operations (Part I,
paras. 2.2-2.3, 4.2-4.7).
iv.   Initial implementation, mainly detailed design and award of the first
contracts, proceeded quickly. When construction began, however, it soon
became apparent that the construction timetable for contracts which involved
local contractors, who were inexperienced with sewerage construction, and
contracts for rehabilitation of the central sewer system, were overly



- iii -
optimistic. The economic crisis in the Philippines, which came to a head soon
after the project started, created problems for contractors requiring
commercial bank credits and resulted in Government's inability to provide
equity contributions required to support project financing as scheduled. As a
result, implementation was delayed and parts of the combined sever component
were deferred.
v.    Changes in management of the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage
Services (MWSS) - three general manage A/administrators in two years - and the
changes in the Government which promp  . extraordinary bureaucratic steps to
police procurement also contributed to "elays. As a result of all of these
factors, the project, somewhat reduced in scope, was completed about the end
of 1989, four years behind schedule (Part I, paras. 5.1-5.6; and Part II,
paras. 1.3-1.10, 1.12, 1.15, 2.2, 2.4-2.5).
Results
vi. The project objectives were substantially achieved despite the
implementation difficulties. The population of the central sewered area of
Manila, about 1.2 million people, benefited directly or indirectly from
rehabilitation and extension of the sanitary sewer system. Some 395,000
residents in low-income areas of MKA benefited directly from the improvements
in sanitation and drainage provided by the combined sewers. The public health
monitoring program indicated that the drainage component was an effective way
of improving sanitation in low-income areas. The environmental agencies
gained a scientific body of evidence about Manila Bay as a basis for
strategies for action on pollution. Establishment of effective industrial
wastes control regulations was not achieved, however. Nor was there
substantial improvement in solid wastes management. Construction of diversion
tunnels for Laiban Dam proved to be a costly premature investment (Part I,
paras. 6.1-6.5; Part II, paras. 2.1, 2.3, 2.6, 2.10-2.12; and Part III-4, 6a
and 6d).
vii. The total cost of the project, based on somewhat questionable data, was
about P 1,436 million, about 9% above the appraisal estimates. Expressed in
U.S. dollars, however, the cost was about US$103.2 million, or about 58% of
the appraisal estimate. The discrepancy is due to the large devaluations of
the peso and the high rate of local inflation which occurred during project
implementation. The internal economic rate of return for the project,
estimated at a minimum of 11% at appraisal, based partly on increased land
values and using border prices, has not been recalculated because of the lack
of pertinent data (Part I, paras. 5.7-5.12; Part II, para 1.10; and Part III-
5a, Sb and 6b).
Sustainability
viii. For project benefits to be sustained and enhanced, it is essential that:
solid wastes management in MNA be greatly improved; the MWSS sewer service
connection program be expanded; maintenance of streams, drainage facilities
and combi-ed sewers by local authorities in MNA be improved; MWSS strengthen
its sewer maintenance operations; and the next phases of the combined
sewer/drain program be implemented (Part I, paras. 7.1-7.2).



- iv -
Einings and Lessons LeaXned
ix.   Except for the overly optimistic implementation schedule, the project
was sound, timely and fairly well executed considering the difficulties
imposed by conditions beyond the control of the project authorities.   It
appears that the experience gained by MWSS puts the organization in a very
good position to carry on as executing agency for the next phases of
development of the combined sewer program. The principal lessons emerging
from the experience appear to be that:
(a) implementation timetables must be realistic if unnecessary strains
on the staff and finances of the implemntixng agency are to be
avoided (Part II, paras. 2.2 and 2.4);
(b)   combined sewer/drainage systems are effective in improving
environmental sanitation in low-income densely populated areas at
considerably lower costs than conventional sanitary sewers (Part
I, para. 6.4; and Part III-6d);
(c)   the Bank should not allow itself to be persuaded to approve
expensive project revisions to support possible future projects
not yet designed and for which potential financing has not been
identified (Part I, para. 6.5);
(d)   reporting requirements should be designed to assure that periodic
reports are meaningful and management-oriented for the project
authorities and are useful for the Bank (Part I, para. 11.2);
(e)   Bank supervision staff should continually monitor the borrower''s
procedures for recording and maintaining project cost data to
assure that it is reasonably accurate (Part I, paras. 5.7 and
5.12; Part III-5a); and
(f)   data of the type used for calculating internal economic rates of
return for a project at the time of appraisal should be collected
continuously during the implementation period to allow the
calculation to be repeated upon project completion (Part III-6b).



MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT (LOAN 1814.PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BALN'S p pECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:       Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project
Loan No:    1814-PH
RVP Unit:   Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Country:    Philippines
Sector:     Infrastructure
Subsector: Water Supply and Sanitation
2.   kxround
2.1         Sector Develonment Oblectives.  The Pational Health Plan (1975.
1985) cited poor sanitation as a major factor in the high incidence of
communicable diseases in the Philippines. From the early 1970s, the
Government made substantial progress in addressing this problem as part of a
strategy to improve basic urban services, by reorganizing the water supply and
sanitation sector, by developing the sector institutions, and investing in
programs to improve the water supply systems in provincial population centers
and Manila. Except for a UNDP/WHO-financed Sewerage Master Plan completed in
1969 for the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA), however, little attention had
been given to urban sewerage and sanitation. The Government therefore
approached the Bank in 1975 for assistance in updating the Manila Sewerage
Master Plan as the basis for a project. This reflected an expansion of sector
policy to include sanitation improvements. By starting in Man'v.a, one of the
most dansely populated urban areas in the world, this initiative was
particularly appropriate since sanitary conditions there were extrPmely poor.
2.2         Project Preparation. Financing for updating the Master Plan and
preparation of a project for HUA was included in Bank Loan 1415-PH, Provincial
Cities Water Supply Project, approved in May 1977. The feasibility studies,
and eventually the detailed design and construction supervision, were carried
out by a joint venture of firms from the United States, the Philippines and
Denmark. An international panel of experts, recruited by the Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) of Manila, reviewed the consultants'
studies and plans.
2.3         The concept and scope of the project changed dramatically during
the preparation stage. While the original Master Plan was directed toward
expansion and improvement of conventional sewerage, increasing concerns about
the environmental impact of sewage effluents on Manila Bay, industrial wastes
and, in particular, the need to identify means for improving sanitation in
low-income areas outside the area that could be served by sewerage caused a
pronounced change in the definition of works and activities to be included in
the proposed project. The project thus became the Manila Sewerage and
Sanitation Project.



3 2
3. Prglect ObUectives, and Descrintici
3.1        obgQetinSs. The project objectives were to: affect an immediate
improvement in environmental sanitation in selected low-income, densely
populated areas of MMA; rehabilitate existing sewerage infrastructure in the
MMA central sewered area and make better use of that infrastructure; improve
the method of discharging sewage to Manila Bay; evaluate the marine
environment of the Bay; implement suitable industrial waste regulations;
develop institutional capacity for the construction, operation and management
of sewer systems; and prepare the next stage of water supply, sewerage and
sanitation development in Manila.
3.2         Description. The project as described in Schedule 2 of the
Project Agreement is given in Annex 1, and in more detail in Part II, Section
4 of this report. The major project components were as follows: Part A of the
project, financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), comprised: construction
of a new sewage outfall and pumping station at Tondo; and rehabilitation or
reconstruction of sewage lift stations and major sewers in the central service
area. Parts B, C and D, financed by the Bank, comprised: expansion of the
sanitary sewer system into two areas contiguous with the central system;
construction of combined sewers and improved drainage in about 1,400 ha of
low-income areas with hazardous sanitary conditions due to the presence of
sewage in the immediate environment; monitoring of health conditions in low-
income areas where improvements were made; monitoring of water quality at the
new Tondo outfall and throughout Manila Bay; expansion of the sewer connection
program; staff training; the provision of equipment for a septic-tank-emptying
program and for sewer maintenance; a solid wastes management study; and
preparation of detailid designs for the next stage of water supply, sewerage
and sanitation projects.
3.3         The combined sewer component, intended to be carried out in three
years, was the first of three phases of an affordable long-rrnge program for
achieving and maintaining an improved standard of sanitation in low-income
residential areas.
3.4         The description of the preparation of the next stage water supply
project was expanded by amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements in
October 1981 to include construction of diversion tunnels for a new dam at
Laiban on the Kalawi River, a mS4ir component of the Third Manila Water Supply
Project (INS III). This proved to be a premature investment (para. 6.5).
4. Project Organization and Design
.1         QOrgaization. The roles of the responsible agencies were clearly
defined. M1SS was responsible for carrying out the sewerage and sanitation
components, arranging for tecbnical assistance, procuring maintenance
equipment, and carrying ouL the public health and Tondo outfall monitoring
programs, the solid wastes management study, the design of future water
supply, sewerage and sanitation projects for MKA Pad the training activities.
Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, US$62.5 million of the loan was relent to
IWSS for these purposes.



-3-
4.2         MWSS carried out the combined sewer program, called PROGRESS
(Program to Eliminate Sewage from Streets) under an agreement with the
Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC), and in coordination with the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) and the city engineers in the four cities in MKA. The
completed facilities were 1;arned over to MKC for operation and maintenance.
MWSS also set up new offices, or reorganized existing offices, for design and
construction of the sanitary and combined sewers, for sanirary sewer operation
and maintenance, and for promoting and making new sewer service connections.
4.3         The public health monitoring program was carried out by the
Institute of Public Health of the University of the Philippines (UP) under a
contract with MWSS. The Tondo outfall monitoring program was carried out by
MWSS with assistance from the Nati-nal Pollution Control Commission (NPCC).
4.4         Monitoring of the quality of water in Manila Bay, for which US$0.5
million of the loan wrs allocated, was the responsibility of the Government
and was carried out by NPCC. The Government also was responsible for
developing and implementing industrial waste regulations for MNA.
4.5         Pro1ect  -Esi.  The project was well prepared.  The scope and
scale were well thought out and the project was certainly timely, although the
implementation timetable could not be met. Design was carried out by the
consultants in close collaboration with MWSS, NRC, the National Housing
Administration (NHA) and the financing agencies. The project concept was
clear and appears to have been shared by all relevant parties. It was unique
in that a broad-based plan had been developed for dealing with improved
disposal of human wastes irn a very large metropolitan community by a
combination of methods which did not depend to any great extent on high-cost
conventional sewerage.
4.6         The project also introduced a number of innovations.  The areas of
the city were classified for their degree of health hazard, with exposure to
and possible direct contact with sewage and flooding used as the basis for
determining priorities for improvements; those priorities were incorporated
into the staged long-range improvement plan. The designs for un-sewered low-
income areas utilized small-bore conduits to convey effluents from household
waste disposal facilities to channels and combined sewers which also collected
and conducted storm water to improved water courses. This is the most rapid
and least-cost method of removing wastewaters from populated areas. From
options believed to be affordable, 13 alternatives were selected for final
evaluation and the least-cost solution for the staged improvement program was
developed. Financial innovations were also included: for the first time in
Manila, wastewater disposal surcharges on water bills were imposed on
properties using over a given amount of water per month, including those not
connected to the sewer system. This was additional to the charge for sewer
service already imposed on those with sewer service connections.
4.7         Those aspects of project planning which contributed to its success
were: (a) the involvement in project planning of all institutions with roles
in the project and (b) planning efforts to ensure that expected project
results would be realized in the immediate future as improvements in the local
environment. Failures in implementation due to planning were mainly delays in



- 4 -
reaching certain objectives, such as the target dates for beginning the
monitoring of Manila Bay and the establishment of separate accounts for MWSS
water supply and sewerage operations.
5. Prolcrt InMiMetation
5.1         Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  Effectiveness of the
loan was delayed about two months while waiting for legal opinions. A
potentially difficult condition of effectiveness, an increase in water
tariffs, was implemented on schedule. A pilot sanitation program and detailed
design, both approved for retroactive financing, began before the loan was
approved. Detailed design, however, had started about three months behind
schedule because of extended contract negotiations. Other than this delay,
detailed design and early procurement activities went well, with no notable
problems. Loan disbursements during the first nine months of effectiveness
exceeded forecasts by 170%.
5.2         Imolementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled for
completion by the end of 1985. In actuality, rehabilitation of the central
sewerage system under Part A of the project, financed by ADB, was not
completed until early-1990, four years behind schedule. Similarly, the major
physical components financed by the Bank, although somewhat reduced in scale,
were not completed until mid-1989, and Manila Bay monitoring, interrupted for
about two years, is continuing through 1990 with financing by MWSS.
5.3         The implementation schedule proved to be impossible to maintain
for a number of reasons:
(a)   rehabilitation of the central sewerage system and of the lift
stations, about which there were many unknowns when the work was
planned and started, are inherently difficult to plan and carry
out according to a reliable timetable;
(b)   the Philippine construction industry had limited experience with
sanitary and combined sewer construction to acceptable standards,
and many of the contractors proved to lack adequate project
management and equipment for this type of work. For example, one
of the two major contracts for sanitary sewer construction had to
be cancelled after three years of work because of poor
performance, and the remaining work (70%) had to be let under new
contracts;
(c)   the economic situation in the Philippines when the project got
under way was deteriorating rapidly and domestic currency
resources were shrinking. This led to local contractors'
difficulty in obtaining commercial credit as needed to meet cash
flow requirements, and, during 1983-85, the required Government
equity contributions for the project were drastically reduced and
delayed, resulting in procurement delays and postponements of some
parts of the project; and
I



- 5 -
(d)   procurement procedures became particularly slow and cumbersome
during the course of changes in Government and MWSS management.
5.4         The delay in project implementation caused by items (c) and (d)
above is estimated at two, and possibly three, years. The balance of the
delay probably resulted from overly optimistic forecasting; although a five-
year project timetable was adopted, project experience in this sector in the
Philippines indicated that a seven- to eight-year implementation period could
be expe_.ted.
5.5         Procurement.  The standard of contract documet  , specifications,
and bidding procedures was high, largely due to MWSS's experience with Bank
procurement requirements for the ongoing Second Manila Water Supply Project
(Ln. 1814-PH) and the quality of MWSS staff and consultants. The problems and
delays which occurred during the middle years of the project were mainly in
administration of the procurement process after bids were evaluated and award
recommendations were submitted for approval.
5.6         For much of the project period, MWSS's internal contract award
procedures requiring MWSS Board approval were too slow; this was complicated
by three changes in top management.   External approvals and other actions
required to get a contract under way caused the longest delays, up to six
months, before notices to proceed could be issued. Contracts required the
review of both the Government Corporate Counsel and the Commission on Audit
before award. Contracts for the supply of imported goods had to be approved
by the Board of Investments, Central Bank regulations had to be followed,
Philippine flag vessels had to be used, and clearances were required from the
Ministry of Finance and the Bureau of Customs before the goods could be
delivered. Additional delays occurred at times because of delays by the
Central Bank in issuing letters of credit or making payments required before
delive- y of imported equipment.
5.7         Project Costs.  A comparison of appraisal estimates and actual
costs of the project is given in Section 5 (a) of Part III.  Expressed in
Philippine pesos, the appraisal forecast of total costs was P 1,313 million,
while actual costs were P 1,436 million, an increase of 9%. Expressed in U.S.
dollars, the appraisal estimate was US$177.4 million, while actual costs were
US$103.2 million, a decrease of 42%. Any comparison of estimated and actual
costs is complicated by revisions in the project content, high rates of
inflation in the Philippines and the successive devaluations of the peso
during the project period; at appraisal the exchange rate was US$1.00 - P 7.40
while at the time of final disbursement the exchange rate was US$1.00 - P
21.84. Moreover, the actual cost figures may not be complete; data on costs
were not maintained consistently by MWSS, and MWSS was inclined to exclude
costs financed by other sources, such as by Swiss transfer credits (Part III,
5 (b)).
5.8         Actual foreign exchange costs expressed in dollars were slightly
above the appraisal estimates, but expressed in pesos, the actual foreign
costs were 95% above the estimates. Local currency costs expressed in dollars
were 35% of the appraisal estimates, but expressed in pesos they were 60% of
the estimates. This appears to indicate that currency devaluation had a far



-6-
greater influence on the costs to the Philippines than did local inflation.
The principal changes in the project content were reductions in combined sewer
and service connection construction (mainly local currency costs), a reduction
in the design of the next-stage sewerage project (mainly foreign exchange
costs) and the addition of the construction of diversion tunnels for the next-
stage water supply project (mainly foreign exchange costs). In general, it
appears that under the prevailing circumstances, the project was carried out
at a cost closely comparable to the appraisal forecasts.
5.9         Disbusements.  The estimated and actual rates of disbursements
are shown in Section 3 (a) of Part III of this report. For the first nine
months after the loan became effective, the rate of disbursements, mostly for
consulting services, far exceeded the appraisal forecast, but it soon began to
drop below forecasts when construction fell behind schedule. In 1985, as the
initial closing date approached, US$12 million of the loan was cancelled
because it would not be utilized; the peso devaluation and postponement of
part of the combined sewer program had reduced the amount of the loan required
to finance local currency expenses. By the time the loan account was closed,
cancellations totaled US$18.5 million, or about 30% of the original loan
amount.
5.10        Loan Allocations.  The original and final allocation of the
proceeds of the loan are shown in Section 3 (b) of Part III of this report.
As noted in that table, the allocations were amended ir November 1981 to
provide for construction of preliminary works (diversion tunnels) for the
next-stage water supply project, and US$6.6 million were reallocated from
category 3, consuLting services, to a new subcategory under category 1, civil
works.
5.11        About US$26.5 million, or nearly 60%, of the reduced Bank loan was
disbursed in local currency. These figures are much higher than the appraisal
estimates of US$19.6 million, or about 30%, of the original loan amount being
disbursed in local currency.
5.12        The US$26.5 million disbursed in local currency is about US$4.7
million more than the actual local currency costs of Parts B, C and D of the
project as derived from MWSS data on actual Costs. This indicates either that
substantial local currency disbursements were made to cover foreign exchange
expenditures, which appears un:ikely, or that the data provided by MWSS are
wrong, possibly in the exchange rates used to convert foreign exchange
expenditures into local currency for the cost summaries provided to the Bank,
but also because of incomplete cost records.
6. Proiect Results
6.1         Objectives Met.  Most of the project objectives have been
substantially met, although with considerable delay. Institutions have been
developed which are capable of planning, constructing, operating and
maintaining sanitary sewer and combined drainage systems. The existing
central sanitary sewer infrastructure has been rehabilitated and better use
has been made of the capacity of the existing system by extending it to new



areas. Sanitary sever service has been made available to the population in
previously unsewered areas, and the sanitary environment has been improved for
the population in a large low-income area of MNA. A program for monitoring
the marine environment of Manila Bay has been inaugurated, and designs for
next stage water supply, sewerage and sanitation projects have been prepared.
An objective which has not been met satisfactorily is implementation of
industrial waste regulations suitable for elimination of toxic waste
discharges in MKA.
6.2         Physical Results.  The results of the physical and other
components of the project are listed in Section 4 of Part III of this report.
Nearly all of the physical components were completed as planned, except for
delays, but the combined sewer program was reduced about 10% in terms of area
served (1,280 ha instead of 1,410 ha). An unexpected result was the finding
that parts of the rehabilitated central sewer system had more capacity than
had been estimated.
6.3         Financial Results.  A summary of pertinent operational and
financial data from MWSS financial statements for the last year of the
appraisal forecast (1987) and for the last year for which data are available
(1988) is in Section 6 (c) of Part III of this report. In general, MWSS's
financial performance has been satisfactory. Its net income improved steadily
from P 54 million in 1978 to about P 540 million in 1988. Its rate of return
on total revalued net fixed assets in operation increased from 4% in 1980 to
9% in 1986 reflecting large increases in tariffs. Even during the recession
and turbulence of the 1986-87 period, MWSS was able to achieve rates of return
of about 8% by increasing its efficiency and sales. The rate of return on net
fixed sewerage assets in operation has been positive in recent years, as was
required under the Loan Agreement. Cash flow, however, has been a problem due
to large debt service increases in recent years.
6.4         Project Impact.  The project improved the central sanitary sewer
system by eliminating much of the infiltration of ground and surface waters
into the sewers, thus providing additional capacity for sanitary sewage and
reducing pumping requirements. Conversely, breaks which permitted sewage to
overflow into local water courses were corrected. Although about 25% below
expectations, about 15,000 properties gained access to the sanitary sewer
system through new service connections, thus reducing discharge of wastewaters
to poorly maintained on-site waste disposal systems. Sanitary conditions were
improved in about 1,300 ha of low-income residential areas; results of the
public health monitoring program showed that introduction of the combined
sewer drainage system improved environmental sanitation to almost the same
degree as a complete package of water supply, street and drainage
improvements.  The project had a definite positive impact on KWSS staff and
departments responsible for sewerage, and the environmental authorities
concerned with the conditions and changes in Manila Bay gained a body of
scientific data on which to base strategies for improvements.
6.5         Construction of the diversion tunnels for the Laiban Dam (para.
3.4) as part of this project turned out to be a premature investment
equivalent to  about US$16 million.  Until the end of 1986, the MWS III
project, which included the dam, was considered the most economical source of



additional water supply for HMA, and considerable preparatory work had been
done. Thereafter, with the identification of the Angat Water Supply
Optimization Project, the MUS III project was deferred indefinitely. When the
Bank was first approached by MWSS in 1980 to reallocate part of Loan 1814-PH
to permit construction of the tumnels, both the Bank and the Government
resisted on grounds that the funds were needed for consulting costs and that
design of MWS III should be completed and sources of financing identified
before any reallocation. Eventually MWSS - with remarkable initiative and
persistence in dealing with government agencies and the Bank - secured
replacement funds and persuaded the Bank and Government to allow the
reallocation.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         The benefits of the project are sustainable and can be enhanced.
A critical requirement is to implement major improvements in MMA's solid waste
management system, possibly based on the recommendations of the Solid Wastes
Management Study completed as part of this project and benefiting from the
experience on the solid waste component of the Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 1821-PH). Many areas of MMA are notorious for haphazard disposal of
refuse in streets, drains and other water courses. Unless this problem is
resolved, and the municipal authorities develop an effective program for
cleaning catch basins and maintaining drains, the areas benefiting from the
project will soon revert to pre-project conditions with respect to flooding
and the presence of sewage in the immediate environment. A survey conducted
by MUSS in 1986 indicated that in some of the areas with improved drainage,
there already was misuse of the drains and a lack of maintenance by the local
authorities. There is evidence also that the MWSS sewer maintenance program
requires improvement.
7.2         It is also important to expand the sewer service connection
program so that more properties comply with the national codes dealing with
plumbing and sanitation. A well prepared public information campaign,
possibly focussed on school children, along with enforcement steps by the
authorities, could improve the connection rate. Failure to improve the
connection rate will not only reduce the benefits of the sewer system but will
advance the date when increases in the sewer service and environmental charges
are required.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         The Bank's activities in the preparation, appraisal, negotiation
and loan approval stages were quick, efficient and thorough, with considerable
support provided to the borrower and the implementing agency. The records
indicate that the Bank was prompt in responding to project developments and
the needs of the implementing agencies. Continuity of Bank staff during
implementation was not very good; three different supervision teams were
involved. The characteristics of the three teams was consistent, however, and
the changes did not appear to have an adverse effect. The project could have
benefited from additional fully staffed supervision missions; during three
critical periods (1981-82, 1982-83 and 198' 86) missions were 12 to 15 months
apart and dealt with three or more other projects. On ta' other hand, the



- 9 -
project did benefit from several visits by specialists in various fields from
departments of the Bank other than the department responsible for project
supervision (Part III-8b).
9. Borrower/Imglementation Agency Performance
9.1         The status of performance on the major covenants in the loan
documents is shown in Section 7 of Part III. Performance of MWSS, other
agencies and the borrower was generally good, particularly considering the
economic crisis, the national political changes and the changes in MWSS
management which occurred. MWSS, in particular, performed very well in
attempting to carry out the project efficiently and to comply with all of the
conditions of the loan. Disappointing performance on some aspects, such as
procurement efficiency, was beyond MWSS control, and on others, such as
failure to provide equity contributions, may have been beyond the borrower's
control.
10. Consulting Services
10.1        MWSS management of its consultants and the services they provided
are considered excellent.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.1        There were no problems with the legal agreements, which were
standard and appropriate for this type of project. The staff appraisal report
was satisfactory as a guide during project implementation. Data relevant to
the preparation of the project completion report (PCR) were not readily
available, however. Supervision reports, particularly in the format used from
FY85 through FY89, do not provide sufficient information for the preparation
of a PCR. Aide-memoirs are important aids for mission effectiveness, but
their value is limited because they cannot be fully candid and therefore
sufficiently informative for internal Bank purposes.
11.2        The Bank's requirements for quarterly reporting by MWSS resulted
in cumbersome 100-page reports which were not only difficult for Bank staff to
review but also were of little value to 1WSS management in monitoring the
project or MWSS performance. Toward the end of the project, the Bank agreed
to simplify the Bank's information requirements so that MWSS could produce
more meaningful and shorter management oriented reports, not only for this
project but for other Bank-financed MWSS projects as well.



- 10 -
PHILIPPINES
MANIlA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(IBRD LN. 1814-PH and ADB LN. 457-PHI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IMPLEKENTATION AND COSTS
Effectiveness
1.1         The Loan and Project Agreements for the Manila Sewerage and
Sanitation Project were Eigned by the Republic of the Philippines (the
Borrower) and the Bank on March 28, 1980. Bank loan proceeds equivalent to
US$62.5 million were made available by the Borrower to MIWSS, under the same
terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan, to assist in financing Parts B
and C of the Metro Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project, METROSS I. The
amount of US$0.5 million was also made available by the Borrower to the NPCC
through budgeting appropriations in carrying out Part D of the project. Part
A of the project was financed by ADB.
1.2         Commitment charges at the rate of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the un-
withdrawn amount and 8.25% per annum on the withdrawn amount outstanding were
charged the Borrower. The loan became effective on September 10, 1980.
Effectiveness was conditional on: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and MWSS; (b) signing of the Project Agreement
between MWSS and MMC for the construction of combined sewers; and (c) MWSS's
introduction of a water tariff increase of at least one-quarter of one peso
per cubic meter. The original closing date of the loan was December 31, 1985.
Inmlementation
1.3         The implementation of METROSS I, which comprised the first stage
of the Year 2000 Objective Plan, started in 1980. The project was implemented
generally as designed. Some revisions, including changes in construction
methods and significant rescheduling were made, however, to suit the existing
field/physical and economic conditions. Completion of the project was four
years behind schedule.
1.4         Part A.  Implementation of the ADB-funded portion of METROSS I
took four years longer than expected. The delay is attributable to changes in
the program and priorities for the rehabilitation of the central sewer system.
1.4.1       The construction of 3.9 km of the 1,800-mm diameter initial
central outfall into Manila Bay (ICO-1) includes 1.2 km of in-shore
works and 2.7 km of off-shore activity, including a 350-meter diffusion
section. Untreated wastewater is being discharged into 11-meter deep
bay water at the end of the outfall. The construction of ICO-1 was
completed 23 days ahead of schedule.



- 11 -
1.4.2       The new Tondo pump station (PS-1) is located at the same
site as the old pumping station. The total pumping capacity of the new
works is 5,000 liters per second. An alternative method of constructing
the substructure using a diaphragm wall was used by the contractor in
lieu of the friction pile and open excavation. The method employed
saved the contractor some three months, offsetting delays in the
delivery of electrical equipment. The project was completed one month
ahead of schedule.
1.4.3       The rehabilitation and upgrading of the seven lift stations
in Central Manila was considered cheaper and more practical from an
operational point of view than constructing new structures. The
expansion of wet pit areas and installation of submersible pumps and
electrical equipment were completed on April 30, 1986, some 12 months
behind schedule. The work was originally scheduled for completion in
912 calendar days from October 1982 to May 1985.
1.4.4       The rehabilitation of the o..entral collection system was in
progress as of mid-1989. Alternative works programs were prepared and
evaluated for the project. The present works include three civil works
and two supply contracts. Remaining works on Contract RHB 1-1, the
largest civil works package, were to have been completed in 1989.
1.4.5       The technical and consultant services of th, consultants to
MWSS, James M. Montgomery-DCCD-Kampsax-Kruger, in the implementation of
the sewerage -omponent were completed in early 1988.
1.5  Part B.  The completion of works under the sanitation component
(including Parts C and D of the project) was about four years late.
1.5.1       The expansion of the collection system to the Pandacan (271
ha) and Dagupan (276 ha) areas was likewise completed with considerable
delays. The construction of the Pandacan collection system (CS-1) was
started in July 1981 and was discontinued in September 1984 at about 30%
completion due to poor performance of the contractor. The remaining
works were repackaged into five smaller contracts. Two of the new sub-
packages were completed ahead of schedule while three were accomplished
with time extensions.
1.5.2       The construction of the Dagupan collection system (CS-2)
started on May 10, 1982 and was expected to be completed on June 3,
1984. The project was completed on November 18, 1986 after several
extensions to the original contract time plus additional time for the
supplemental agreement (CS-lA). The contracts for both CS-1 and CS-2
were based on open cut excavation. The CS-2 contractor, however, opted
for the use of jacking/tunnelling equipment for the installation of the
main sewer. This method proved quite successful and caused less traffic
disturbance in the affected area and saved the contractor time.
1.5.3       Under Addendum No. 2 of the contract for consulting
Services, the JDK provided various assistance and consultant services to
the implementation of 'PROGRESS," the construction of combined sewers in



- 12 -
low-income blighted areas. PROGRESS was accomplished in two phases.
Phase II, completed in early 1989, is the construct. -n of projects
designed under Phase I.  This program was disconti   d by MWSS in
October 1984 due to the non-availability of local funds for contract
implementation. Pilot sanitation projects and public sanitary
facilities were also completed in 1981.
1.5.4       Some sewer maintenance and operations equipment procured
under septic-tank-emptying and sewer maintenance programs were turned
over to the Sewerage System Department (SSD). The SSD, however,
realized the need for additional equipment and spare parts for the
maintenance of existing equipment. The MWSS requested ADB for the
utilization of a portion of the savings under ADB Loan No. 457-PHI for
the acquisition of the needed additional equipment.
1.5.5       A new Central Laboratory was constructed within the MWSS
buildings complex housing several laboratories intended to process all
wastewater and water samples not related to water treatment plant
control. The project was completed on November 14, 1983 and was placed
in operation with the acquisition of about 85% of the total instruments
and equipment in late 1985. The health monitoring component of the
project was implemented by the University of the Philippines, Institute
of Public Health during 1981-85. The program was conducted in five
areas where MWSS and other agencies have implemented improvements. A
report on the program was submitted in May 1987.
1.5.6       Detailed design and construction supervision for the
sanitation component were carried out with technical assistance and
consultant services of the JDK. The services were completed in early
1988.
1.6   Part C. The design  of structures and facilities for the Manila Water
Supply Project III was also completed under the Bank loan. The design of
METROSS II, the expansion of the sewerage system to south Metro Manila was
accomplished, with the first phase of the project in 1984. The completed
design portion constituted approximately 15% of the total design area work for
the southern system. Overseas training of MWSS staff in sewerage and training
of senior executive officials at various overseas management courses were
accomplished in 1984.
1.7   Part D. A survey vessel, vehicles and various laboratory equipment and
supplies were procured for the National Pollution Control Commission under the
first monitoring program for Manila Bay, including the Tondo outfall. The
project was carried out by MWSS, NPCC and other government agencies. The
final report on the program was submitted by the NPCC in April 1987.
1.7.1       Monitoring of Manila Bay waters and the new Tondo outf.ill,
which resumed under a new Memorandum of Agreement between the
Environmental Management Bureau, NPCC and the MWSS as an extension to
fill data gaps in the previous project, will be completed in two years
(1989-90).



- 13 -
1.8   Problems Encountered
1.8.1       Various problems were encountered during project
implementation which resulted in long project delays and increases in
project costs. The problems can be categorized as: (a) contractors'
problems and shortcomings; (b) government bureaucratic processes; and
(c) problems beyond the control of either the contractor or MWSS. Some
valuable lessons, however, were learned during the implementation of
METROSS I that should be taken into consideration in the implementation
of future projects.
1.8.2       The following problems were attributed to the contractors.
In most instances, contractors lacked the technical capabilities of an
experienced project management staff to undertake sewer construction
work. The lack of necessary equipment and inadequate finance to meet
cash flow requirements in some cases compounded the problem. These
constraints were observed in both large and small contractors.
Oftentimes, however, large contractors expressed willingness to pursue
the completion of their contracts. The splitting of contracts by MWSS
into small packages like PROGRESS Phase II and the HOCOP Program enabled
small contractors to be prequalified and participate. However, this
resulted in managerial and financial problems experienced by small
contractors who bid low. The NWSS Project Management Office work load,
on the other hand, multiplied as a corsequence of so many projects going
on simultaneously.
1.8.3       Another major cause of delay was government regulations and
the time involved in processing necessary contract documents by
government agencies other than MWSS. This was particularly true of
supply contracts, which required clearance from the Board of Investment
(BOI) and came under a Central Bank regulation regarding the importation
of certain equipment and supplies; the clearance process ordinarily took
several months. The non-availability of Philippine flag vessels to ship
imported items and the securing of clearance from the then Ministry of
Finance and the Bureau of Customs for imported equipment and materials
further lengthened the time needed to complete contract deliveries.
1.8.4       One of the major causes of delay in project implementation
was the time involved in the review of contracts by both the Office of
the Government Corporate Counsel (OGCC) and the Commission on Audit
(COA). This remains a critical area and the Government should attempt
to resolve the problem. Some delays in the execution of contracts may
be attributed to having three different MWSS administrators in less than
a two-year period.
1.8.5       Some causes of delay were not attributable to either MWSS or
the contractors. Unforeseeable factors such as soil conditions, high
groundwater, numerous overhead and underground utilities, restricted
working areas and heavy traffic contributed greatly to delays. The
runaway inflation of 1983-85 and the devaluation of the peso from P 7.40
to P 21.50 to the U.S. dollar in only two years resulted in a tight
money supply for contractors. The Government's inability to provide



- 14-
necessary equity for local counterpart funds and other economic
pressures resulted in the rescheduling of NETROSS projects to later
dates. Sewerage projects received the lowest priority in terms of MWSS
program investments and expenditures.
1.9 Neasures Taken
1.9.1       The Government assisted contractors in their financial
difficulties by making advance payments for mobilization.
Representations were also made by MWSS with local governments to secure
excavation permits. The MWSS, in its desire to help contractors finish
their jobs, granted contract time extensions in many instances.
Termination of contracts was resorted to only for contractors who,
despite agency assistance, failed to make satisfactory progress.
Terminated contracts were subsequently split into smaller subpackages
and were rebid.
1.9.2       Several attempts were made by MWSS to expedite the contract
review process by other government agencies. Improvements were noted in
the last few contracts. Representations made to the Ministry of Public
Works and Highways and the Customs Bureau by MWSS reduced the time
needed to obtain imported equipment and goods. Processing of documents
by MWSS is now very fast and efficient due to the Administrator's
consciousness of the need to expedite project implementation.
1.9.3       Changes in plans and designs were also needed to suit actual
physical conditions prevailing in the project areas. Assistance of law
enforcement and traffic agencies were also sought and u-ilized during
the project period.
1.9.4       Another factor of some significance that contributed to
delays in project implementation was the unprecedented level of
inflation and the continuos erosion of the peso. Even foreign
suppliers and their local subsidiaries could not guarantee prices at a
fixed level over a long period of time.
1.10 Project Costs and Financing
1.10.1      The total cost of the project (including the ongoing works
under the sewerage component) is P 428.90 million, some 9% higher than
the appraised cost of P 1,312.8 million.
1.10.2      The cost of the ADB-financed component (Part A) of about
P 531.9 million is 16.3% lower than the appraised cost of P 618.4
million despite a rise in prices and the devaluation of the local
currency against the U.S. dollar This is due to the findings during the
design stage that the capacity of the existing collection system in
almost all pipe sections is sufficient to cope with flows projetted up
to the year 2000. The cancellation of the award for MMSP Contract No.
RHB-1 for the rehabilitation of the central collection system in August
1984 has given the sewerage project management office the opportimnity to
re-evaluate and re-asses the program and the scope of work. As



- 15 -
previously conceived, the rehabilitation was re-evaluated and reviewed
in the light of recent developments such as the comnissioning of the new
Tondo outfall and the closure of large itflow sources at Pasig River and
some esteros at C.N. Recto. With the acquisition of equipment under
Part A (RHB 1-2 and RHB) and Part B (STAMP-1 and SNEP-1), a small
portion of the rehabilitation works was done by the administration. The
alternative program which reduced the quantities of the original works
also provided substantial savings to NWSS.
1.10.3      Parts B, C and D, the sanitation components of the project,
cost P 897 million, an increase of around 29% over the appraisal total
cost of P 694.6 million. The substantial cost increase is mainly due to
the unprecedented inflation during project implementation, that brought
about steep increases in the cost of labor, materials and services.
Between 1973 and 1988, the exhange rate fell from P 7.40 per dollar to
P 21.50. In addition, low cost estimates made during project
preparation, insufficient contract times, restricted working spaces, and
numerous overhead and underground utilities necessitated additional
expenses due to many variation orders and extra works.
1.10.4      The delayed implementation of some project components and
the splitting of contracts into several smaller packages likewise
increased the overall engineering, administrative and contract costs.
1.11 Loan Disbursement
1.11.1      Full disbursement of the IBRD loan proceeds was originally
scheduled for June 30, 1985. Withdrawals against the loan started in
1981. The overall Bank participation for Parts B, C and D increased
from the appraisal estimate of 46S to 69% at completion of the project.
Despite the increase in the overall foreign financing, the increased
costs and changed construction method, however, the full amount of the
loan was not utilized. Cancellation of portions of the loan in four
subsequent dates totaled US$18.5 million out of the MWSS allocation of
US$62.5 million. This points mainly to the devaluation of the peso, the
deletions in contract implementation and partial implementation of Part
B (combined sewers) and Part C (sewerage design).
1.11.2       The original closing date of the Bank loan was December 31,
1985. Due to delays and repackaging of some contract works, three one-
year extensions were granted by the Bank, with the loan finally closing
on December 31, 1988. Seventy-two percent of the MWSS allocation of the
loan proceeds was utilized.
1.11.3      The ADB loan (US$42.8 million) which financed Part A of the
project was expected to be totally disbursed by December 31, 1985. Full
utilization of the proceeds was not achieved despite late implementation
of the rehabilitation of the central sewerage system, the increase in
construction costs and the changes in design and construction method&.
The early completion of the initial central outfall and the Tondo
pumping station provided added opportunity for the MWSS to revise the



- 16 -
scope of work on the rehabilitation component. Substantial savings from
both resulted in cancelling US$9.35 million as of December 31, 1988.
1.11.4       Disbursement of the ADB loan proceeds began in 1980 and
loan closing was scheduled for December 31, 1986. Due to the
implementation of works to complete the rehabilitation component in late
1989, the ADB extended the closing date to December 31, 1989 as
requested by MUSS.
1.12 Procurement
1.12.1       The procurement of equipment and supplies was carried out
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Most contracts were
awarded to local indentors/firms with foreign principals. Not all the
equipment/supplies contracted, however, were delivered. The failure of
indentors' delivery was due to strict procedures in the issuance of
Letters of Credit. Such procedures have greatly delayed implementation.
Winning bidders can no longer meet the quoted bid price, resulting in
default in delivery. Some items intended for the Central Laboratory and
the Manila Bay monitoring program were not complied with by their
respective contractors. Notices and attempts by MWSS to compel full
delivery of items by contractors were not successful.
1.12.2       The Government's imposition of restrictions on the opening
of Letters of Credit and selective importation in 1983-85 made it more
difficult and time consuming to acquire needed items.
1.13 Compliance with Covenants
1.13.1       All issues under the covenants in the Project Agreement
were complied with satisfactorily. the creation of a separate Sewerage
Accounting Section in MUSS was carried out in 1982, but it was not until
the MWSS re-organization in 1985 that the Section become permanent. The
maintenance of a separate accounting system for water and sewer
operations started in CY1988, rather than January 1, 1981 as originally
planned. The transfer of ownership for the acquisition of 12 hectares
from the Public Estate Authority (PEA) for a future sewage treatment
plant is still being negotiated. The 10-hectare site at the mouth of
the Pasig River approved by the PEA for the same purpose has yet to be
reclaimed.
1.13.2       Gaps and paucity of data in some instances were likewise
noted for the first Tondo outfall and the Manila Bay monitoring program,
because of technical and financial problems encountered during the
project's implementation. The NPCC report recommended that Bay
monitoring be continued for another two yeers in order to fill in data
gaps and arrive at more conclusive information on the effect of MWSS's
pumping of raw sewage into the Bay. Both MWSS and the Pank agreed that
monitoring of the Bay should be continued. The Bank financed the cost
of the program until the closing of its loan, after which MWSS continued
to provide funds for another two-year monitoring period.



- 17 -
1.14 Roe=rLng
1.14.1      Adequate monitoring reports on the progress of the project
were provided by MWSS. Project information requirements of other
agencies and creditor banks were provided on time. The quality of the
reports and their timely submittal allowed very close monitoring of
implementation.
1.15 Proiect SuRervision
1.15.1      Bank supervision missions visited MWSS during project
implementation. Averaging two missions per year, the visits provided
in-depth identification and analysis of key problems, issues and areas
of concern for IWSS. Each mission provided valuable recommendations and
showed great concern for successful project and systems implementation
and management. On several occasions, the Bank directed MWSS's
attention to actions that improved implementation. The Bank also
monitored project implementation through progress reports submitted by
MWSS. The good interaction between the Bank and MWSS therefore aided in
the execution of the project.
1.15.2      One of the  problematic portions of the project is Part D,
monitoring of the Tondo outfall/Manila Bay by NPCC. Sampling activities
did not commence until 1982 instead of July 1, 1981 as required under
the Loan Agreement. The delay in completion of the Manila Bay
monitoring program was not under the control of MWSS. The program was
implemented by NPCC with a grant from the Government, using proceeds of
the Bank loan. The delay in acquisition of the survey vessel and late
delivery of equipment purchased abroad, the unsuitability of some
foreign-acquired equipment and denial by the Bank of NPCC's request for
extension of the study until 1987 instead of 1985 resulted in the
reduction of sampling activities in order to finish the project on the
agreed date. Delayed release of funds on the part of the borrower
during implementation further aggravated the situation. The Final
Report on the Program submitted in 1986 by NItC contained some gaps and
paucity of data in some instances.
1.15.3      The continuation of the program for another two years,
approved by the Bank in May 1987, was further delayed until a new
Memorandum of Agreement to this effect was signed in October 1988. The
will continue through 1990.
1.15.4      The Tondo outfall/Manila Bay monitoring program, when
completed, will serve as a lesson on how much valuable time can be
wasted in the litary of bureaucratic and technical procedures.



- 18 -
B. PRCJECT PERFORMANCE AND RE-EVALUATION
2.1         One of the project's main goals was the development of MWSS as an
organization capable of providing technical, financial and institutional
services in water supply, sewerage and sanitation in its service area. The
project provided MWSS with some valuable experience in four of its principal
services: PROGRESS, Design Services, Construction Supervision and Special
Services. PROGRESS was responsible for organizing and supervising the design
and construction under the sanitation program. Design Services undertook the
feasibility study and design of the next water supply (TMWSS III) and sewerage
projects. The Construction Supervision group was responsible for
implementation and operations of works for the fist stage of the Year 2000
Objective Plan. The Special Services group provided the services required for
procurement, monitoring, training and technical activities of the project.
2.2         The short project implementation period originally planned put
substantial pressure on MWSS to reach its goal as rapidly as possible. During
the implementation period, MWSS engaged the services of consultants who
provided technical support and assistance of high level and quality for the
overall supervision of MUSS. However, in view of the physical and financial
uncertainties of the time and MWSS's relative inexperience in some areas, the
project implementation schedule must be regarded as overly optimistic and
ambitious.
2.3         In the implementation of the project's major components, local and
foreign consultants were employed as resident engineers. Close supervision of
consultants and contractors by MUSS, particularly in the project's early years
was very useful. Over the course of project implementation, problems were
substantially corrected as in-house and local staff gained experience during
the ten years of project implementation.
2.4         Feasibility sruwaies for the project's components were prepared in
advance.  The rate of delivery of project components reflected MWSS's initial
optimism regarding its technical capability and fin=cial viability.
Reassessing, however, will show that the slower pace of actual implementation
and phasing of service delivery in later years allowed the MWSS the
institutional and on-the-job learning curves in construction management and
manpower development. The actual pace of implementation also eased MWSS's
financial problems, especially during the economic crisis.
2.5         The low priority given by management to sewerage projects,
especially during the years of economic difficulties, somewhat eased MWSS's
financial requirements, but only temporarily. Personnel trained by MWSS and
who have gained valuable on-the-job training and experience in MWSS projects
were separated at a loss to the System. The resumption in 1986 of the
projects discontinued in 1984 required hiring of new manpower replacements
lacking the necessary training, experience and familiarity with the project.
2.6         Over the course of the project, MUSS did not have an appropriate
marketing strategy to make the project objectives and benefits more sellable
to the targeted beneficiaries and the information campaign to make the area
residents appreciate the importance of the sewerage and drainage facilities.



- 19 -
While the National Plumbing Code and the Sanitation Code of the Philippines
require every building or premises to be connected to the sanitary sewer
system in areas where sewer lines are available, the house connection program
of the project (HOCOP) met resistance from some homeowners whose property was
censured for service connection. Objections to the 50% surcharge on water
bills for sewer services caused some rejection of the HOCOP project.  A survey
in 1986 of PROGRESS projects previously completed reflected some residents'
misuse of the drainage facilities and the apparent lack of maintenance by the
local governments.
2.7         MWSS followed Bank procedure established for the procurement of
supply materials and award of civil works contracts for foreign-funded
components but followed procurement procedures established under PD 1594 for
purely local components. In the pre-qualification and selection of
contractors, MWSS strictly adopted the said procedures. However, in the pre-
qualification and selection of contractors, the evaluation is limited to the
submission of data supplied by the contractors. In some cases, incorrect
statements have been received.
2.8         At the start of the project, NWSS organized a central Office for
Special Projects (OSP). All records and communications were coursed through
the Central Office. However, in 1985, a reorganization of MWSS took place
resulting in the abolition of the OSP and the misplacement of vital documents.
The project office failed to build its own data bank. There have been
attempts to computerize the records but this has not materialized.
2.9         The economic and social benefits expected of the project include:
improvements in public health; enhancement of employment; and increased land
value. These benefits are not quantifiable in financial terms, but it is
generally accepted that they did accrue from the implementation of the
project.
2.10        The final report on the health monitoring component of the project
by the U.P. - IPH showed that the introduction of drainage intervention alone
improved environmental sanitation and public health to a level almost equal to
that brought about by the complete package of water supply, street and
drainage improvements. The least improvement in sanitation was observed in
areas with improved water supply only, suggesting the need for the provision
of sewerage and sanitation facilities in parallel with water supply.
2.11        The long yea.s of executing METROSS I brought valuable lessons and
considerable experience for the Government, MWSS and the Philippine
contractors to reckon with and consider in future sewerage projects. Since
the next phase of construction in sewerage involves the expansion of the
existing system in MMA, the NWSS should make a thorough assessment and
analysis of its capabilities to address issues and problems in the pursuit of
its objectives. It may be wise for MWSS to view the next project in the same
context as METROSS I. Though generally successful in its infrastructure
goals, much is left to be desired. The completion of the project in 1989
should likewise complete MWSS's learning curve in construction management.  A
sufficient pool of manpower should have been developed to handle the planning
and execution of similar undertakings.



- 20 -
2.12        The local construction industry should now be more familiar with
the treuds ano problems of this kind of work. It should have learned the
risks and the complexities of implementation. The losses suffered by the
contractors through erroneous planning and overly-optimistic assessments of
their capabilities should have likewise molded the industry members into
becoming more reliable institutions and partners in national development.



- 21 -
NAIAsEWR        AMD SAI amI MRJC   (LOAN 1814-PHU
PART III. 5            TIXL  Zmm=l
1.             Lo  S   Credits
Title                        Pulas                      A     ,  3d $tatus                  -C9gint
Proinel Citie             lrov wte SUly                     Os/am          Colete           Loen financed the
water Suly                  In six  rvincital                                06/              studies to upd.te
Project                     cities, prepore                                                   a Sewerage Master
(Ln. 141   )                studies for wter                                                  Plta for UA
upply systems i 10                                               aN  Identify the
m, cities ed                                                     Sewe  and Sean-
Manil.                                                           tation Project.
The Solid Wastes MgAt.
study included In the
Sewer/Sanftation ProJ.
also was financed from
Loan 1415.
Second hnd I's               ater spply for                   0725/fl        Complete         Carried out by Water
Supply                      Metropolitan nmiti.                              12l86            agenmy (NMSS) also
Project                                                                                       responsibl, for
(Ln. 1814-PH)                                                                                 Sewerage/Sanita-
tion Project and
som covenants
suerseded by
those of Ln.1814.
Third Urban                 Provision of basic                03/25/U        complete         Project included
Development                 nees and assist                                   in 1968         drainage works
Project                     prodactivity of                                                   requiring coordi-
(Ln. 121-PS)                toa incom                                                        nation with Sew-
families in Metro                                                erage/Sanitation
Manila.                                                          Project.
Metropoltitn                Optimiation of                    06/03/86       Ongolng.         Carried out by
NMI  M ater                 existing wter                                    Closing          agency (MMSS) also
Distribution                supply production                                date is          responsible for
Project                     capacity ed                                      12/31/91.        Sewrage/Sanita-
(Ln. 2676-PH)               imrovement of                                                     tin Project snd
NM    finenial                                                   som covenants of
performce.                                                       Ln. 1814-PN are
superseded by those of
this newr loan.



22 
2. ProJect lmtable and Issue Raised
a) Prolect Timta*le
Activity/                         Date                    Ravised                 Actual
Ewat                         _ Pld                       Dot"                   Date
Poject idmntfficatfan                                                                    April 1975
Prepatfon                                                         05/77                   03/78-06/79
Apaisal UIfin                              FY78                   04/79                   07/79-0879
1sotatiofs                                 FY79                                           02ov-or/so
Bard Approa                                FY79                   03/80                   03/20/80
LoawCredit foatur.                                                                       03/28/80
Loa/Credit Effectivens                     06/30/10               0/29/80                09/10/80
Project Coplttion                          06/30/85               12/31/86                12/31/89
03/31/88
12/31/8
Closing Date                               12/31/85               12/31/86                12/31/68
12/31/87
final Difburseunt                          12/31/8                12/31/86               07/10/89
06/30/e
06/30/89



n-23
2. troec timtable and 1en  Rais
bW In=    id l s          lea thraush Ucer Pretain)
e      "ratt   *m   ----    the capcity of wc to lplnt Its share of the
draniag c1apn ant of the project;
oNelap of _omnts of this project an  of the
p       Urbd n tII project;
....   prs of the W    service am are wder the control of other authorities which
could cae proble_ beas of different standerds;
----   facfilites bbuilt by on  acy (ISS) would be
operate   d mintained by othe;
MISS's lack of  p4r1iee In sewerag construction;
the divrsion of resoures requred for this project from other high priority
projects miich  lready reqire two istemnts;
affordability by tow fncem population; ad
the high ltel of price contingencies being used for cost estimtes.
nlusal  u:           ....   the _sintance of drains to be constreted by
NISS, but to be mintained by MIC; ard
....   the large proportion of total Governt fwids o -   tted or prposed for water
suiply wd sewrage in WaIl a;
Post-oAusg:         ....--    the strafn of the project on limited local currency
ratources;
the mownt of the proposed Bank toan In relation to
sitliated totat project costs;
the introduction of a wastewater disposal charge of lOX on water supply btlls;
the operational capacity of the foplt_ntnr sgencies to carry out the project
along with the Urban III project;
=- Wther parts of the sewerage copwrwent coutd be deferred;
----   the possibtlity of coabining se_nts of the Sewerage and Sanitation Project with
the Urben 111 Project; and
----  qasfsgmant of responsibiitty for desin and suqerwvsion of construction of closely
related drainage co_mnts of the Swe rg/Sanitation Project and of the Urban III
Project
nmeti        ....: ---- gone
§Mr PlalionM       ----    Mone



- 24 -
3.        f
mautiv Estimt   nd Aul  D1sbumsam
ID FY                         Awal                                Acual,
d s_Wter                        itflt*                                      X of Apaisat
Endina                         Aout                     Amount               tte
1981
12/31/80                         0.14                      0.14                     1O0X
06/30/81                         0.86                      2.32                     269X
1982
12/31/81                         7.                        5.82                      732
06/30/82                        23.60                     10.02                      42X
193
12/31/82                        31.81                     15.37                     48X
063/                            50.32                     17.94                      362
1964
12/31/-                         52.74                     24.46                     46X
06/30/84                        57.71                     28.05                     49X
1985
12/31/84                        59.65                     31.02                     52X
06/30/a5                        63.00                     36.38                      5u
1986
12/31/8                                                   38.28                     61t
6/A30/8                                                   36.94                      62X
198?
12/31/6                                                   39.72                     63A
030/87                                                    40.16                      64X
12/31/8                                                   41.67                     66X
06/30/88                                                  43.10                     68X
1989
12/31/85                                                  43.89                     ?0X
06/3089                                                   44.21                      70
1990
12/31/89                                                  44.50                      712
Cacelation
03/06/85                   12.000
08/07/8?                    1.540
09/04/7                     0.850
11/29/68                    3.000
07/11/89                    1.113
Total Cancelled                        518.503
Not Anouast of Loan                      44.497



3. LeJcr t { W_SS
b) Ortainal and final Attloation of Prooeeed
(US$ 000)
FiMl Diaisnts
Lo  An  Mr_t 1                                         of which for
Amt             X of cost               Total              Local Currency
Ak      lmo                    c        ifrsed           Amount    of Totatl
1. CIvIl Vertb
(a)  Works under
Part 3 (1) of the                 31.000            715            20,57?      18,748            91X
Project
(b)  Wwks vder    A/                     6.600            751            7,607       3,976            521
Part C (1) of the
Project
2. Eqipment ad Nate ls-sf                    S,Ol                            3.050          217             7X
(a)  directly inorted                                1001 of
foreign
nd1tura
(b)  locatly maufatured                             100 of
local epen-
diture (ox-
factory)
IC)  procured locally                                  75X
3. Cnultants' Sevics                        13,90          1001              13,263       3,521            271
nW oversea  training
4. Unallocated                                                                -           -00
TOTAL                        63,000                          44,49?       26,462            591
2/ Alloetion as amnwded on 11/18/81 to provid, for construction of diversion tuwnels for the Lafban Dam, whfch
would be constructed as part of the next water project.
3' Under the  1eniment, *6.6 m mer taken frm Category 3, previously 20.5 m, and reel located to Category I (b).
previously  othber Works". The reduction in th  allotation for consultins services for IYSP-III was covered bv
Swiss transmer credits for the cost of Swiss consultants to dIsaon mwter gammlv fad lities.



-26-
4. Protect Imloamentatien
Appraisal                               Actual or
Indicator Ca)                       Eat_ lat. (a)                             PCi Estimat
Part A: (ADB financed)
1.  Tendo Sewage outfalt                3.6 to outfall to be                       3.9 Km outfall completed
eompleted by 12/31/82.                     in 12/83.
2.  New Tcndo Sewage                    New pimping station with                   Kew pumping station with
Pupinr station                      5.5 cu m/a capacity to                    5.0 cu oVa capacfty was
be cospleted by 12/31/82.                  completed 09/85.
3.  RehabIitatfon of                    Rehabilitation of 7                        Rehabilitation of the 7
sewag  lift                        stations to be dbne by                     stations was completed
stations                            12131/82.                                 04/86.
4.  Rehabilitation of                   Rehabilitation work on                     RehabilItation completed
sanitary sewers                    about 120 km of sewers                      about 03/31190.
In e ntral Manila                  correcting overflows to
Pasig River, etc, to be
completed by 12/31/85.
PART B: (IBiD financed)
1.  Sanitary sewers and                 Sewars and house cowuc-                    Sewer system for Pandacan
house camouctions                   tions for Pandacan area                    (271 ha) was completed in
for areas adjoining                 (about 360 ha) end for                    02/89. and for Dagupan
the central sewered                Dagupan (aobut 280 ha)                      (276 ha)  in 11/86. House
area of Manila                      to be eompleted 12/83.                    connection program under
Nouse connection pro-                     separate contracts
gram to be completed                       completed 05/89.
by 12/31/85.
2.  Implementation of                   Pilot program consist-                     Pilot program completed
pitlot sanitation                   ing of corbined sewers                     in 09/81.
program                             in two areas and public
sanitary facilities to
be completed in 1985.
3.  Combined sewers to                  Combined sewers in areas                   This progras (PROGRESS)
remove wastewater                  elassed as very hazerdous                  was carried out in two
from the iomediate                 (about 730 ha) or with                     stages.  The second stage,
vicinity of low                    significant hazard (about                  completed 05/89,  as
income residential                 680 ha) with respect to                    delayed 3 years because
areas                              public health to be                        of local fund short ges.
compteted 12/82.
4.  Procurement of                      Equipment for septic tank                  Procurement of equipment
equipment for septic               emWtying and maintenance                    finnoced from this toan
tank snd sewer                     of sewers to continue                      completed in 03/83.
maintenance                         until t12/83.
5.  Monitoring of new                   Implementation of program                  Central laboratory to
Tondo submarine                     to monitor water quality                   process water and waste
outfall and con-                   at new outfall beginning                    water sarples not related
struction of new                   01/82 and put into oper-                    to water treatment olant
aste water                         atftn new wastewater                       control operational 12/8S.
latoratory.                        laboratory.                                Outfall monitoring began
late 1983 when outfall
completed.
6.  Pubilc health                      lplementation of health                    Health monitoring by UP
monitoring program                  monitoring program by UP                   Inst. of Public Health
to assess conditions               to begin by 01/81.                         started 07/81, completed
before and after                                                               in 1985, In S aresm whare
sanitation improve-                                                            sanitas0on improveents
ment.                                                                          carried out.



27 -
4. Prolect lmlemetati   (continued)
Indicator (a)                      lfAmralsal Estioate ta)                   ctl   or PCR Estmate
PART C: sn fIR inmx>dO
1.  Detaliled desgn of                 Detailed design of next                  Design ooqwleted for a
ixut stag  water                   stage projects to be                     next stage water suqply
s4*pty, aunittian                  coqextted by 12/31/01.                   project.  Construction of
wed sewetrae projects              AuimnLnt to Loan and                     diversion tuwnels con-
Project Agreneints adesd                 pleted. Design for part of
construction of diversein                sewerage extension to
tutnels for Lalban Dma.                  South Netro Manila, inctuding lst
stage of Southerm Outfatll, also
coqpt,eted.
2.  ovrseas training                   Training of MMSS staff                   overseas training of staff
in sewerage design,                      on sewerw"e and atten-
construction and                         dance of sen or officials
operation.                               on mamnaement completed
in 1904.
Part D:t (1O)f inanced)
1. Nonitoring of Manila                Implemantation of bay                    Monitoring program,
Sly water quality                  monitoring program to                    delayed by slow equipment
begin by 07/01/81.                       procurement, started
072 and continued thru
1986. Two year extension
of monitoring began 10/88.
(a) indicators shown were defined during appraisal and generally wre monitored throihout the implementation period
adshon in the supervision reports.



. 28 .
S. Prolet Costs and Ffinnein
a) PMleit CoSt
Marsfal Estimtes al                    Actual Costs bI
bLDnscnts      --                     For ln   ;X£QL      Tetrl           Forel ILo            Total
(US S iltions)
Part A (ADD Fincd)                               42.77      40.78      83.5S           2.77    9.68       37.45
Parts ,C, & D
Cfvil Works  i/                                  12.65      22.81      35.46           21.33       8.78  30.11
Iquipoent                                        3.98        0.53       4.51            1.04       0.06   1.10
Ronitoring Programs                               0.00       0.74       0.74            0.04       0.18   0.23
Solid UWstes Study                                   -                                  0.40       0.16    0.56
Oetailed Dein/Training SJ                        14.83       6.23      23.06           11.24       8.77  20.01
Enogneering & Admin. Sy                           1.16       3.19       4.35            9.97       3.82  13.78
Contingences                                     10.80      14.94      25.74              --
TOTAL PARTS B,C & D                            amk1       S9,                        44.02      21I.7   65.79
TOTAL PROJECT                                    86.19      91.22      171.41          71.79      31.45  103.24
..... ....... .................... ............................................ ..... ....... .............
Aamaisal Estimates           Actual Osts
Fon   n7 Loesl  Ttatl  Forefin  Locat  Totat
(Pesos mItiins)
Part A (ADS Financed)            316.5   301.8   618.3    407.7        126.1  533.8
Parts D,C & D
CivMt Works  SI                 93.6   168.8  262.4       294.4      119.8  414.2
Eqidpment                       29.4      3.9   33.4       12.9        0.8   13.7
Nonitorwin Programs              0.0      5.5    5.5        1.0        3.0    4.0
Solid Wastes Study               ---          ---* -        3.5        1.3    4.8
Detailed Design/Training £/I  109.7    60.9  170.6        192.0       98.6  290.6
Engineering & Aikin. gt          8.6    23.6   32.2       121.6       53.0  174.6
contingencies                   79.    nl0.6   19.          --         _         ----
TOTAL PANTS B,C & D              321.3   373.2  694.5       625.4      276.S  901.9
TOTAL PROJECT                    637.8   675.0  1312.8      1033.1    402.6  1435.7
NOTS:
Exchanoe =aX   ud for  epprlaisa estimates: US S 1.00 * P 7.40.
Ai ctual cost figures shean abone are summfries of mor detai led data provided by mWSS with Part 11 of this
PCR nd In subsequent corfreswonceo and expressed in Philfppine pesos by years. Excnomeratu  used to
convert to equivalent US dollars are the annul atverages of the market exchange rates (rf vatues) from the
'International Financial Statisticsf pubished by INF.
I   Actual costs of diversion twunnls for the proposed Laibsn Omo (part of the MAB III next stage water supply
project) ineluded under 'metda led DesignTr*aningp.
V Actual costs of detailed design of sewerage ard sanitation included under "Enineering & Admin.P.



- 29-
b.  Prolect FC n  mncina
Amiorisal Foreast          Ffnal Amounts
of                        X of
Source ot Funis                      tJga lam"i                             12 Ol
(USS m)                  CUSS U)
IFR  Loa  1814-PU                        63.0             36       4.50            43
II     e Lon 1415-PN                      0.0             --       0.56 &           I
ADS Lomn 457-P111 I                       42.0            24       29.45           29
amSS Internol cah gnration                23.5            13    )
Govt. e*uty contributions                 19.8            11    )28.23             27
Govt. town s                                              16       .
Total j                         177.4             100     103.24           100
___._.___...................................... __........................................................ ........<........
1/ A smm    de not include Increas   In MS  working capital and interest capitalized during construction.
V/ The Solid Wbtes Manwagment Study cost S0.56  Ill  n and was financed from IBRD Loan 1415-P, and was not
included In the appraisal financing plan.
,V ctual AD3 Lean, approved 06/24/80, was for S41.8 m.
if The  mwnt of the Swiss transfer credits used to financ port of the design   of the next stage water supply
project (see note In Section 3 (b) of Part 111) Is not includbd; the data are not available.



-30 -
6.  olect m    tRelt
a) Direct Eanftts
1/         Estimted At
Appra1sal                      Full
Benefits                  Estfmate    Clos1ir  Date   fOelheent
Rehabilitation of Central Sewer System
Ares Benefited (ha)                        1,880          1,800          1,800
Trwa* Sewers Rehabilitated (km)              120            106            106
Population Benefited (000)                   610            845           n.a.
Sewer Extenso0ns to Dagupan & Pandcacn
Are Benetfted (ha)                           640            S47            S47
Sewers Constructed (kip)                    n.a.           66.3           n.a.
Service Connections Constructed (im)        n.a.           18.1           n.a.
Population Benefited (000)             169            351            378
Combined Sewor Constructlon
Area  enefited (ha)                  1,410          1,282           n.a.
Condaits Constructed (km)                   n.a.           329            n.s.
Population Beneffted (000)             906           381            n.a.
Pilot Sanftation Program
Area Benefited (km)                         n.a.           36.7           36.7
Populatfon Benefited (000)                  n.a.           13.7           13.7
Septic Tank Emptying Services
Population Served                          1,320           n.a.           n.a.
Service Connections (additional to above)
Financed as Part of ProJect (000)              n.a.            4.7           n.a.
otaifled Destgn of Mast Stage (ater
Suqply and Sewerage PruJects                  Done            Done           n.a.
Overseas Training (staff months)               n.a.            102            102
1/ As given in Appraisal Report for cotpletion by 12/31/84
n.s. a data not awvilable.



- 31 -
6. Protect Resultts
b) XinWc 19os
Actual
Aparalsal Estiate            (At Final Develoament)
Economic Rate
of Return                   11X to 14X/ 3/
Undetxrlvn htomig
For AmoiSal Estimate:
Incremental revwens from astewater charges and esti1ated land value 1ncreases, a major component,
weme used in determining expected project benefits.  The caleulation method described In Pubtlic
Utility Report No. GAS 14 uas used to determine the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR).
Accordingly, border prices, determined with the following conversion factors, were used In the
calculations:
Standard factor ---------- 0.820
Consumption factor ------- 0.840
Construction factor ------ O.27
Capital goods factor ---- O.65
Labor factor ------------- 0.695
Electricity, gas and
water factor ----- 0.802
........................_. .. .... ...... _.................. _... .... ... .... ._.. .............
J/ Depending on whether or not revarues from wastewater charges collected froam properties which are not connected to
the central sewerage system are included as benefits in the caleulations.
3V 1,cause of a series of currency devaluations, a high local inflation rate and major Goverment policy changes
Ar;fn the project 1 plementation period, and because of the limitations of the available data on  ctual project
expunditures and lend values daring that period, no atteopt has bean rmde to recalculate the IERR on the sam basis
as uwed for apWraisal. Vith respect to land values, property assessments generally have not been rased by the
lowal gnvorrments in the metropolitan area to reflect any Increased values becauee of inproved conditions (see
Project Cov;letion Report for the Third Urban Development Project; Loan 1821-PH).



- 32 -
6. Proleet Results
C) fnismilMDQCt
(Millions of Pesos unless noted otherwise)
Appraisal I                   A/               Actual for kI
Financial Indicators                          Estiate               ..j. aust               Latest Year
oertoal Data:
Population under MSS (000)                          9,148                   8,468                  8.712
W Vith water camerctions                              80X                   56.8X                  58.5%
X Served by publie hydrants                          7.0X                    7.0X                   7.2%
XWvth sewer cormnetiono                                 -                    8.1X                   7.7X
Water connections (000)                             695.1                   534.3                  566.5
Sewer service cornections (000)                      81.1                    97.3                  103.9
Vater billed (rmllion eu m)                           701                   336.5                  359.4
Non-revaeue water 1                                   251                     601                  58.61
Sewage billed (million eu m)                           --                    60.7                   61.2
Water staff/IO0O water corneetion                                            12.7                   11.7
Semer staff/1000 sew. coections                        --                     4.2                    4.6
Ffnenefat Date:
Tariffs:
Avg. mater supply (P/ cu m)                      2.22                    4.02                   4.36
Seer charge (l of water bill)                     601                     501                    501
Envirorgent charge (% of water)                   20%                     101                    101
Revenues:
Water supply                                  1,554.5                 1,362.7                1,578.0
Seerage                                            --                   134.7                  147.1
Enviraoment charge                                 --                   135.2                  156.8
Total Sewerage and Enviromment                  341.4                   269.9                  303.9
Totat operationl expenses                           647.2                   715.2                  808.5
Income before depreciation                        1,266.7                 1,006.7                1,171.7
financial Perforeance:
Rates of return St
on water operations                              8.01                                          8.94*
on semerage operations                           5.51                      -                   9.59*
overall operations                               7.41                    8.01                   8.71
Operating Ratio gy                                    51X                   52.41                    51X
Receivables in biLlings (days)                         90                      81                     92
Debt:
Oebt service coverage                             1.9                     1.1                    1.0
Debt:Equity ratio                               26:74                   46.8X                  43.41
Liquidity: Current Ratio                              1.3                     1.3                    1.3
p/  For last year of appraisal forecast * 1987.
kI  For latest year for which data is available - 1988; or * for 1989 according to MSS aouarterly Report for the
period ending 12131/89.
gI On net revalued fixed assets in operation.
gV Including depreciation.



6. £Lt1 Reults
d) Stiniu
Purpose as Defined
am                     as &rfsal                         Status                 imeact of Studv
Monitoring of Mbnila          To expand limited             Carried out by          Provides valuable date
Bay Water  uAlity             sampling of shore-             mPCC 1982-1986.        on levels, types and
line uaters to futl           Resumed by ENO         effects of pollution of
scale monitoring              for two years:          of Bay and could be
of potLution and              1989-1990.              very valuable in design
assiml tative Ca-                                     and inplementation of
pacity of entire Bay                                  control meures. 3/
Development of                To identify indus-            Industrial waste        Iqpact of work done is
Industriat Wastes             trial astes being             water survey            limited to demonstra-
Regulations                   disposed of in Metro          conducted in            tion that technical
Nanila and to design          1981/82, but was        capability for adequate
and prmulgate repw-           inecmplete. Very       industrial wastewater
lations to reduce             general regula-        surveys exists in the
toxic discharges.             tions prepared         Philippines.
but never imple-
mented. 2/
Pubtlic Health                To update public              Carried out by          The program established
Monitoring Program            health statistics             UP from 07/81           a sound methodology for
In selected areas            through 1985.           collecting and evatuat-
where water supply            Final report           Ing health retated sta-
and sanitation were           submitted in            tistics in the
improved and                  10/87.                 Philippines. Conclu-
to monitor any                                       sions indicate that
changes.                                              of the various possible
infrastructure improvements in
congested low-
Income urban areas,
drainage had the most
favorabte iwpact. y
Monitoring of Voter           To evaluate the               Mnitoring by            Resutts indicate only
Quality at New                effects of discharge         MWSS began in            significant effect on
Tondo Seage                   of untreated sewage           1984 after new          water quality to date
Outfall                       on the imediate               outfall can-            is Increased turbidity
vicinity of the new           pleted. Even-          near the outfall caused
outfall.                      tually contin-          by diffusers stirring
ued as part of         up bottom sediment. I/
Bay monitoring.
Solid Wastes                  To investigate the            Study completed         lwpact has been negli-
Management Study              very poor existing            12/82 and               gible since few of the
astes disposal                recamendations          recomsendations ave
system and recom-             agreed with the         bean implemented. /
end improvemnts.              Bank.
Study of Potential            To ivwestigate                Study never             lpaect was timited
New Sources of                possible new sources          received re-            mainly to preliminary
Reverie for MUSS              of funds to reduce            quired attention        work on establishing
future dependency             and was even-           future waste water
on Goverment                  tually absorbed        disposat charges
contributions.                in corporate            based on groundwater
plamning activ-        abstraction within
ity of MSS.            MMS service area. /



- 34.
3/ Re: Manita Bay/Tondo Outfall Vater Qualitt Monitorin: Monitoring program gave no evidence that outfall operation
made any significant change in water quality in its vicinity, except the turbidity, but that seneral say water and beach
quality were not safe for primary contact recreation and that Bay showed signs of stress because of the thickly
populated area. The resumed program (1989-90) is intended to fill data gaps in order to arrive at more conclusive
information on water quality and to predict the long term impact of discharging untreated sewage through the outfall.
It is important for MMSS to have adequate scientific data on which to base decisions an any need for pretreatment.
Monitorinr should also continue indefinitely on a routine basis to detect changes in the marine environment and to
Identify weasures necessary for abatement, particularly of toxic pollutants.
1 Re: Industrial Wastes Rewulations: The basic problem was the design of regulations suitable for the Philippines and
their implementation during a period when the country was faced with severe economic problem and political unrest.
/ Re: Pubic Health Nonitorina Proaran: Studies carried out by the Institute of Health, University of the Philippines
in 5 areas where fmprevements were implemented indicated that the beneficial effects of inproved drainage almost equaled
those of areas with the complete package of improvements (water supply, streets and drainage), and that the least
inprovements occurred where only water supply was improved.
y Re: Sotid Wastes Manacement Study: Study was expected to serve as the basis for a Manila solid wastes management
project which also mas to assist industries with installation and operation of toxic waste removal facilities. The
solid wastes project has not gone ahead, however. Failure to take effective action on the solid wastes problems could
wipe out many of the expected benefits of the Sewerage and Sanitation Project because of refuse clogged surface water
drains, catch basins, combined sewers and esteros.
5/ Re: Study of Mew Sources of Revenue: The study was expected to examine the feasibility of: charging groundwater users
for sewer services, and possibly for water use; betterment taxes on properties benefitting from sewerage and drainage;
and charging industries based on the nature of wastewater discharges. Currently, MSS plans only to submit draft
legislation to permit taxing of groundwater use.



- 35 -
T. Status of maior Cveanrits
Covensnt             Su b              iect                                            Compliance
La m Agreemnt:
Sect. 3.01                  The Borrower to take, or cause                     Unsatisfactory during period
to be taken,  ll action, nclud-                   1983 - 1966 when Government
ing the provision of funds                        failed to make required equity
necessary to enable MMSS ard MNC                   contributions becbuse of na-
to perform (their) obigations.                    tional economic and political
problems. Also, politicat and
bureaucratic factors have
interfered with acquisition of
site for of Tordo seaage
treatment plant. (See ProJect
Agreement, Sect. 3.06 below)
Sect. 3.03                  By July 1, 98, the Borrower                        Compliance satisfactory after
to cause NPCC to comwmne. work                     long commncement delay and
on the monitoring of Nanila Bay                    interruptions durino implemen-
water quality, and submit to the                  tation.  (See section
Bank quarterly reports analyzing                  6 (d), Studies).
the results.
sect. 3.04                  By Jaruary 1, 1981, the Borrower                   Compliance not satisfactory.
to develop and implement suitable                 (See Section 6 (d) Studies).
insstrial waste regulations for
the purpose of eliminating toxic
discharges in Retro Manils.
Prolect Agreement:
sect. 2.08                  By January 1, 1981 MSS to sign                     Agreement signed Aprit 1981 and
an agreement wilth UP on a public                 compliance satisfactory there-
health monitoring Program.                        after. (See Section 6 (d)).
Sect. 3.02                  MUSS to give the Bank the                          Limited compliance.
opportunity to comment on the                     Appointees generally proved to
qualifications of candidates for                  be well qualified, however.
Project Managers for Sewerage
and Sanitation.
Sect. 3.03  1i)             By Jariary 1, 1981 NMSS to                         Special MUSS Task Force created
establish and staff an office                     1982, but sewer connection
for sewer comections to                           program began to be effective
implement a schedule agreed by                    only in 1987, and then only to
the Bank.                                          limited degree.
Sect. 3.03 (if)             By Jaruary 1, 1981 MWSS to                         Delayed compLiance. By 10/84 a
reorganize and staff a Central                    Sewerage Department, including Sewer
District Office to operate                        a Septic Tank Maintenance Div.,
and omintain the sewer system.                    was fully operational.
Sect. 3.04                  By January 1, 1981 KMSS to begfn                   Delayed coWpliance. Konitorfng
a  onnitoring program of the new                  of the outfall on a regular
Tondo outfall to be constructed                   basis began in 1984. (See
uncter Part A (1) of the project.                 Section 6 (d), Studies.)
Sect. 3.05                  By January 1, 1981 MUSS to set up                  Delayed compliance. While first
an accoemting system to separate                  set of separate finacial
water snd sewer income statements.                statements was prepared for
1963. actual maintenance of an accounting
system which separated water supply and
sewerage operations beoan only In 19B8.



- 36 -
T. S"_¶us of Malor Cowenants (Continued)
Cov4enant----                         Subiect                           _         Comliance
sect. 3.06                 By December 31. 1981 MMSS to                     Compliane by MMS haqpered by
comptete action to acquire a site               politicat issues and bureau-
for a future sewage treatment                   cratic problemg. As of 12189.
plant at the Tondo outfall.                     negotiations, underway for socme
time, between MUSS and PEA for transfer of
10 ha of reclaimed land had been deferred
pending revival of the next stage sewerage
proJect.
sect. 3.07                 By January 1, 1981 MUSS to                      Compliance satisfactory after
implteent a waste water disposal                Late start en 07/01/81.
charge of 10X on water bills of
connections using above 30 cu mlm.
Sect. 3.08                 By June 1, 1960 MSS to coune                    Delayed coopliance. Study con-
a solid wastes management                       pleted 12/82 and recomnr_da-
study and furnish the findings                  tions agreed with Bank, but
to the Bank by December 31. 1981                no significant imptementation since. (See
Section 6 (b), Studies.)
sect. 4.02                 Not later than six months after                 Delayed compliance. Financial
end of each fiscal year, MSS to                 statements and auditor's
furnish to Bank certified copies                reports furnished by MUSS have
of MUSS financial statements for                been satisfactory but have been
the year and the auditors report.               generally late by aem to three months.
sect. 4.04                 Not later than October 1 of each                Partial compliance. Through
year, beginming in 1980. through                1983, reviews were carried out
1985, MUSS to furnish to Bank                   regularly; need for tariff
a review of MMSS's firanciat                    increases following devaluation
requirements for the following                  identified and imptemented and
year for determining required                   need for equity contributions
tariffs, equity contributions                   and borrowing referred to
from the Borrower and amounts to                MOFP MN0A and OB. For 1984-85,
be raised by local borrowings;                  however, there was a breakdown
and to implement the findings                   in financiat plaming. This
In a matvr satisfactory to                      covenant superseded by those of
the Bank.                                       new Loan 2676-PH. approved 04/86.
Sect. 4.05 (a)             MUSS to provide revenues to                     Compliance generally
produce: for sewer operations,                  satisfactory. Coveant
beginning in 1981, an annual                    superseded by those of new
positive rate of return; and                    Loan 2676-PH approved 04/86.
for water operations, an annual
rate of return of 5X in 1961
and a% thereafter.
Sect. 4.06                 By March 1, 1981 iWSS to furnish                Compliance not satisfactory.
to the Bank an analysis of the                  (Section 6 (d), Studies.)
findings of a feasibility study
on new sources of revenue.
Sect. 5.01 (a)             MMC to enter into an agreemnt                   Compliance satisfactory. The
with mUS, satisfactory to the                   coubined sewers completed under
Bank, for the purpose of                        61 contracts were accepted for
construction of combined seers                  operation by MuC and turned
under Part 8 (4) of the project.                over to the respective local
goverments (3 cities and 15
municipalities) for maintenance.
Sect. 5.01 (b)             MC to operate and maintain the                  Copliance not entirely
above system in conformity with                 satisfactory. Surveys have
sound practices and shall provide,              shown that maintenance of
promptly as need  the required                  facilities by local authorities
funds and other resources.                      has not been consistently up to
acceptable stwndards.



- 37 -
8. Use of 8ank R4s ouree
*) Bank Staff/Consuttant Imaut
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of                                             Ba,*IRDA Fiscal Tear                        Prolect Cvcle
Pro
F LI?!1                            t1 1!!                   fill        fSlu         f8
Preappraisal                    9.3         0.6         5.8        12.1
Appraisal                                                                      45.3
Uegs/Adnin.                                                          1.0       14.2
Supervision                                                                     0.7          8.0        3.8          5.2
Other                                                                                        1.0         0.7         0.1
Totals                     93          0.6         5.8        13.1        60.2         9.0         4.          53.
....... ............ _............ ......................... ....... ............
am14        fXfY86                  fY87 fil    "aFMl                   fl2       TOTALS
Preappraisal                                                                                                        27.8
Arraf stl                                                                                                           45.3
Megs/Admin.                                             0.4                                                         15.6
Supervision                     8.8         6.7         5.6        14.1         3.9         2.2                    59.0
Other                                       0.2         0.3         0.3                                              2.6
Totals                     S.          6.9         6.3        14.4         3.9         2.2                   150.3



- 38 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
b) PEk r i.Si3Ji
Number
Al                                                       of Other
Type of                                                         Projects        Performance      Problem
Mission           Dates                  Staff                    Covered         AatinML.   T. ne
Identify        05/24-31/75             Engineer                        0
Fin. Analyst
Prepare          07/24-08J13/77          Engineer                       0 
Prepare          05/28-06/16/78          Engineers (3)                  5                --
Urban Planner
Economist
Prepare          10/22-11/27/78          Engineer                       3
Fin. nalyst
Pre. Apr.        03/08-16/79             Engineer                       0                --             --
Fin. nalyst
Appraise         07/16-08/22/79          Engineer                       4                 ,,
Fin. Analyst
SPM #  1         06/05-27/80             Engineer                       4                n.a.           --
Fin. Analyst
SPN #  2        02/14-03/10/81           Engineer                       3                1.
Fin. Analyst
SP4D  3          07/12-31/81             Engin er                       6                1.             --
Fin. Analyst
5PN #  4         06/18-07/O2/82          Engineer                       5                1.            Disbursmnts
$Pi #  5        09/  /83                 Engineer                       0                2.            Financial
Fin. Analyst                                                  Disbursmnts
Technical
SPM , 6         03/20-31/84              Training Expert                3                n.e.          Staff
SPU #  7        09/24-10/30/84           Engineer                       3                2.            Financial
Fin. Analyst                                                  Disbursmnts
Economist                                                     Dev. Impect
Instituticnal
Dev. Advisor
SPN #  8        04/29-05/28/85           Fin. Analyst                   2                2.            Financial
Engineers (2)                                                 Dev. Impact
Admin. Asst.                                                  Overall
Status
SPN #  9        06/03-15/86              Engineers (2)                  4                n.a.               --
Fin. Analyst
SPN # 10         11/05-14/86             Fin. Analyst                   4                2.            ProJ. Mgmt.
Engineers (2)                                                 Overall
Status
SPN # 11         03/10-23/87             Engineer                       2                2.            Proj. Mgmt.
Fin. Analyst                                                  Overall
Economist                                                       Status
SPU # 12        08/05-12/87              En8ineer                       2                2.            Prol. Mgmt.
Fin. Analyst                                                  Overall
Status



- 39.
8. use of Bank Resources
b) Bank Nissions (Contiee)
ullber
W                                                          of Other
Type of                                                           Projec.s       Pertormance      Problem
li ssi on         Dates         Stefft                            c£emd    R       ati p     s    TvDes
SPN # 13         02/08-18/88             Enineor                        4                2.            Proj. Ngmt.
Fin. Analyst                                                  Overall
Status
SPM # 14         10/11-15/88             Fin. Analyst                   1                1.            Proj. Ngmt.
Engineers (2)
l/ In addition to the conventional Bank supervision and other missions, supervision and inportant tochnical
assistance contributions were provided from Bank resources through brief visits by experts in various fields
(hydraulic structures, emirornent, water distribution system design, computer applications, and public utility
mnwgement) from areas of the Bank other than the department directly responsible for supervision of the project,
and by Banll staff participation on expert review panels.
k/ Performance Ratines:
1. a Problem Free or Ninor Problems
2. a Moderate Problems
3. = MaJor Problems
n.s. - Not available from reports



- 40 -
Ane  1
Description of the Protect 1/
Part A:
(1)     The construction of a 1.8 m diameter and about 3.6 km long outfall at Tondo into Manila Bay for
disposal of sewage from Central Manila.
(2)     Acquisition and installation of a new pimping station to replace the obsolete main Tondo pumping
station thereby increasing the capacity from 3.6 to 5.5 cu m per second.
(3)     The rehabilitation ard upgrading of seven sewage lift stations at Sta. Ana, Sta. Cruz, Legarda,
Luneta, Port Area, Malete ard Paco.
(4)     The reduction of inflow and infiltration, repairing of clogged and broken sewer pipes, sealing of
connections to the Pasig River and rehabilitation of approximately 120 km of existing trunk sewers in the central
service area system.
(5)     Utilization of technical assistancre for detailed design and construction supervision.
Part B:
(1)     Construction of a sanitary sewage collection system covering about 280 ha in Dagupan and about 360
ha in Pandacan contiguous to the central service area system including house connections.
(2)     UtiLization of technical services for iproving sanitation in low income blighted areas.
(3)     Implemantation of a pilot sanitation project.
(4)     Construction in low Income areas of combined sewers in about 730 ha with conditions of great hazard
to public health, and in about 680 ha with conditions of significant hazard to public health.
(5) Maintenance of equipment for: (a) a septic tank emptyfng program; (b) sanitary sewers; and tc) combined
sewers.
(6)     Nonitoring of the new submarine Tondo outfalt including a waste water laboratory.
(7)     Implementation of a public health monitoring program.
(8) Detailed design and supervision of construction.
Part C: 31
(1)     Detailed design of next stage water supply, sanitation and sewerage projects, including the
construction of two reinforced concrete-lined diversion tunmels, each about 900 m long with inlet and outlet
structures, for a dam to provide water supply for Manila; and
t2)     Overseas training of MUSS staff in sewerage.
Part D:
Carrying out a program of monitoring of Manfla Say water quality including acquisition of needed equipment.
*             ~~*                    *
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.
]/ From Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement as amended 11/18/81.
?/ Part A to be implemented with ADB financiat assistance; (Loan 457-PHI)
3/ As amended, effective November 18, 1981, to add construction of diversion tunnels. Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement also amended to provide for the employmnt of consultants to design and supervise the construction of the
tunnels.



