Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               F L E  COPY
Report No. 2742-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
March 3, 1980
East Asia and Pacific Region
Regional Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan^e of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 3, 1980)
Currency Unit             =          Peso (P)
P 1.00 (100 centavos)    =           US$0.135
US$1.00                   =          P 7.40
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm     =  millimeter                   =  0.04 inches
cm     =  centimeter                   =  0.39 inches
m      =  meter                        =  3.28 feet
km     =  kilometer                    =  0.62 miles
sq km  =  square kilometer             =  0.39 square miles
ha     =  hectare                      =  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres
cu m   =  cubic meter                  =  264 US gallons
cu m/s =  cubic meters per second    =  22.8 million US gallons per day
1      =  liter                        =  0.26 gallons
lcd    =  liters per capita per day  =  0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
Mld    =  megaliters per day            =  0.26 million US gallons per day
mg/l   =  milligrams per liter         =  parts per million
m/s    =  meters per second            =  3.28 feet per second
ng/l   =  nanograms per liter          =  parts per billion
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    =  Asian Development Bank
LWUA   =  Local Water Utilities Administration
MMA    =  Metropolitan Manila Area
MMC    =  Metropolitan Manila Commission
MWSS   =  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
MPW    =  Ministry of Public Works
NPCC   =  National Pollution Control Commission
UP     =  University of the Philippines
MWSS' FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page, No.
I. THE SECTOR . . . . . . . .......... .  *.1
Background . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
The Sewerage and Sanitation Sector     . . . .  ..  .  .       I
Sanitation in Metropolitan Manila  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Waste Water Discharges into Manila Bay . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Other Sewerage Projects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Relationship to Bank's Third Urban Development Project . . .   8
Bank Lending for the Sector  . . . . .       . . . . . . . .   8
II.  THE BORROWER BENEFICIARIES AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES . . . . .   9
The Borrower and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . .    .        9
Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System  . . . . . . . .   9
Billings, Collections and Receivables   .    .  .  .  .  ..  .   11
Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
National Pollution Control Commission   .    .  .  .  .  ..  .   12
Metropolitan Manila Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
University of the Philippines  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Objectives . . . . . . . ..............    14
Project Description                                           14
Project Concept and Composition  .       .  .  .  .  .  . .     .   15
Cost  Estimates  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . ..  .  .  ..  .  16
Population Served  . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  18
Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Contingencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . ..         20
Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction . . . .  21
Project Implementation .                       .   .  . . .  22
Coordination with Third Urban Development Project  . . . . .  23
Industrial Wastes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .....   23
Operation and Maintenance  . ....... . . . .    ....  ..   24
Project Supervision  .           . . ..      .  . . . . . .  24
The project was prepared by the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
and appraised by Messrs. Saravanapavan and Mejia in July/August 1979.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diaclosd without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . .   .  24
Past and Present Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Future Financial Performance      ......                    27
Tariffs and Rate of Return    . . .  ...          .          28
Ability to Pay             .        .        ....29
Duties and Taxes . . . . .    .. .  . . .    30
Revaluation of Assets      ...               ...30
Debt Control.......                                          30
Monitoring Indicators and Reports  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
V. JUSTIFICATION.. . . . . . .   31
General  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Least Cost Solution   ..31
Service to the Poor   ..32
Economic Evaluation  . . . . . . . . ... .                  33
Long-Run Marginal Cost and Wastewater Tariffs  . . . . . . .  33
Employment ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
Environmental Impact ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
Project Risks  ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
TABLES
No.
3.1  Project Cost Estimates - Sewerage  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
3.2  Project Cost Estimates - Sanitation  . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
3.3  Population Served  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
3.4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
3.5  Contract Schedule for Combined Sewers  . . . . . . . . . . .  41
4.1  Consolidated Income Statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
4.2  Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds . . . . . . .  43
4.3  Consolidated Balance Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
4.4  Income Statement for Sewerage Operations . . . . . . . . . .  45
4.5  Income Statement for Water Operations. . . . . . . . . . . .  46
4.6  Monitoring Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
5.1  List of Alternatives Studied . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
ANNEXES
1.0  Economic Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
2.0  Assumptions in Financial Forecasts . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
3.0  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File. .  60



-3-
Page No.
CHARTS
IBRD No.
20879 MWSS' Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
20880 Project Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
20970; Construction and Operating Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  65
20969 Present Worth Comparison   ..... . . . . . .. .  . . . . . .  66
20968 Ranking of Alternatives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
20976 Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
21342 Mminute - Progress Organizational Chart  . . . . . . . . . .  69
MAPS
IBRD No.
14464 - Sewerage Master Plan
14463 - Central Service Area Rehabilitation
14462 - Sanitation Upgrading Program
14723 - Manila Bay - Wind Roses and Freshwater Flux



I                            I
I                           I



1. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01      The Mletropolitan Manila Area (NMA) is one of the most densely
populated urban areas in the world with an average density of 193 persons per
hectare.  Almost 20% of the nation's population resides on MMA in only some
0.2% of the national land area. Though the population in MMA produces 90% of
the national revenue, the Government has only recently attempted to alleviate
some of the serious sanitation 11 problems, which include inadequate water
supply, human exposure to sewage caused by the high population density and a
poorly managed system for the collection and disposal of solid wastes.
The Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
1.02      The most recent National Health Plan (1975-85) cited poor sanita-
tion as a major factor in the high incidence of communicable diseases in the
country.  Urban sewerage and sanitation has, up to now, been given little
attention in the Philippines.  According to the most recent estimate only
about 32% of the total population was served by individual water carriage
systems of excreta disposal, 24% had latrines, pit privies, etc., and the
rest no facilities at all. The sector can be divided into the rural areas
and urban areas. The urban areas can be subdivided into the provincial
cities and MMA.
1.03      Rural areas.  In these areas 15% of households have closed pit
latrines, 28% have open pit latrines and 1% use public toilets. About 11%
have flush toilets and 45% have no facilities. The Environmental Sanitation
Division of the Department of Health (DOH) is responsible for the rural
excreta disposal program in the Philippines. Private companies make the water
seal latrine pans and concrete slabs to health department standards, and DOH
can make loans to poor households for their purchase. The program is
considered to be a success compared to those in most other countries in Asia.
DOH is intensifying the program in an effort to control fecal pollution
with special emphasis in areas experiencing schistosomiasis or cholera. The
Bank, through the recent Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project, is
assisting the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) and the National
Water Resources Council with a pilot sanitation study for about eight rural
communities to provide a basis for a future project and until this study is
completed no major Bank involvement is proposed for rural sanitation.
/1  Sanitation is defined as the promotion of hygiene and prevention of
disease by the maintenance of a clean and healthy environment.
Sewerage is the removal and disposal of waterborne wastes through an
underground piped system. The sanitation improvements in this project
would provide means for the removal of unhealthy wastes and improving
the environment in low income areas. The sewers in the project would
provide for the conveyance and ultimate disposal of these and other
waterborne wastes.



-2-
1.04      Provincial Cities.  There are reportedly only six major Provincial
Cities with public sewerage systems. Sanitation in most low income areas is
bad, sewage and foul water and decaying garbage is present in the streets or
adjoining ditches. LWUA has an ambitious water supply program for the
Provincial Cities with populations of 15,000 and above, but there is no
equivalent program for the safe disposal of the harmful waste water generated
by these water supply schemes. LWITA started planning in 1979 for sanitary
sewers in some Provincial Cities and with assistance from TTSAID is making
pilot studies on different types of sewer systems since most urban communities
cannot afford conventional piped sanitary sewer systems. Low cost solutions
to improve sanitation developed by the Bank based upon the experience in
Manila are therefore being considered by LWUA.
Sanitation in Metropolitan Manila: The Project Area
1.05      The sanitary and public health conditions in MMA vary widely.  The
upper income residents have piped water, sewage treated in septic tanks with
the effluent led into covered roadside drains, and regular garbage collec-
tion. In contrast, about 2 million poor people live in dense and abject
conditions in blighted areas. Their housing is predominantly makeshift;
water is handcarried in open containers from far-off sources; drainage is
poor and the areas are subject to deep flooding during rains; sewers
(sanitary or combined) are rare. The predominant method of sewage disposal
is through a manual flush toilet to septic tanks, cesspools, vaults and
pits, which are often improperly designed. Effluent from these facilities
and grey water from kitchen wastes drains to the nearest watercourse.
Impervious and saturated soil types which are predominant in Manila prevent
the proper functioning of subsurface drainage and seepage pits. Typhoid,
cholera, gastroenteristis are endemic; in 1972 morbidity and mortality from
these diseases were 1,800 and 80 respectively per 100,000 popuation. More
recent statistics are unavailable and will be compiled under the proposed
project. MWSS' 1980 service area covers all of MMA (less one municipality)/l
and 11 contiguous municipalities that are currently not in MMA. Reclamation
of the shore area is expected to add 664 ha in 1982 and 748 ha in 1987,
thereby increasing MWSS' service area from the present 148,691 ha to 149,355
and 150,103 ha in those years. About one-third, 51,710 ha, of the MWSS area
is urban and forms eight drainage basins which are studied in detail in the
project- this is slightly less than that of MMA which has an area of 60,500
ha. Maps IBRD 14464, 14465 and 14466 give details.
1.06      In 1957, there were 172 public toilets in Manila; today there are
only 54, most of them poorly maintained by the cities and municipalities.
Public toilets are used by a large number of people; in Tondo, despite
neglect, strong odor problems and lack of water, one such public toilet is
used by some 2,000 to 3,000 people. MWSS is presently carrying out pilot
/1 MMA includes 5 major cities and 22 municipalities.



- 3 -
studies on public toilet use and design. The Metro-Manila Commission (MMC)
with technical assistance from MWSS and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
will construct and maintain public toilets in areas where such facilities
are found to be necessary.
1.07      Public Health Hazards.  One of the main goals of the project is
the reduction of health hazards arising from bad sanitation caused by the
presence of sewage in Metropolitan Manila. MMA has been graded into areas
with four classes of health hazards as follows:  Class 1:  No Hazard.  There
are essentially no sewage related health hazards in such an area and the
likelihood of human contact with sewage is very small. Class 2: Moderate
Hazard. Only minor opportunities exist for human contact with sewage in
these areas.  Class 3: Significant Hazard.  Opportunities for public contact
with sewage are widespread in these areas. Most of the sewer system
consists of open, ill-defined ditches and ponding of sewage in these ditches
encourage mosquito breeding. Many of the water supply service connection
pipes are situated in channels carrying sewage. Slum area children often
play barefoot in and around ditches filled with sewage. A total of 5,228 ha
of Class 3 areas has been identified. About 13% of this area (682 ha) is
included in the proposed project for upgrading to Class 2 standards (para.
3.02). The rest of the Class 3 areas (4,546 ha) are planned for improvement
after 1982. Class 4: Great Hazard. In these areas it is difficult for the
public to avoid contact with sewage; poor drainage often causes sewage to
run over open ground. Public markets in such areas are surrounded by open,
poorly defined drains which carry sewage and are clogged with vegetable and
other organic refuse. A total of 730 ha Class 4 areas have been identified
and under the proposed project all Class 4 areas would be upgraded to Class
2 standards. The Class 3 and Class 4 areas are shown in IBRD Map 14462.
1.08      Sewerage Systems in the Project Area.  The sewage presently
generated in Metropolitan Manila is about 760 Mld. About 1.14 million of
the 1980 population (estimated at 6.73 million in 1980) living in 2,450 ha
of the service area are served by public sanitary or combined sewer
systems./I Another 2.28 million of the population living in 10,970 ha of
the service area are served by communal or single septic tanks of varying
standards of efficiency. The remainder have pit privies or, as in some
poverty pockets, no service at all.
1.09      Sewage Disposal in Poverty Areas.  In poverty areas which cover
about 10% of MMA and contain 35% of its population, sewage is commonly dis-
charged into street gutters, open canals, esteros /2 or rivers; these are
/1 This includes the new Tondo and Dagat-Dagatan sytems which are now in
operation.
/2 Esteros are shallow inlets from the rivers and the sea.



- 4 -
generally Class 4 areas. Because of the lack of services and public
facilities, streets in poverty areas are littered with vermin infested
garbage and excreta and esteros are often clogged with wastes. These
discharges cause waterways to be biologically degraded and septic
conditions to be prevalent 4 to 10 months in the year.
1.10      Septic Tanks.  Most of the sewage generated in MYA is discharged
into individual septic tanks which are without sub-surface filters and are
not cleaned on a regular basis. Community systems with septic tanks serve
many home developments and institutions- approximately 1,300 ha serving
320,000 of its population./I Because of bad design, irregular cleansing and
poor maintenance, most of these septic tanks function poorly. The project
provides a septic tank emptying service. MWSS is acquiring expertise in low
cost sanitation technologies through a Bank Loan (Loan 1415-PH) and will
provide technical assistance to .M-A's urban development program /2 for
design and appropriate technology for the disposal of human wastes. MWSS
will appoint within its Office of rngineering and Special Projects an
experienced sanitary engineer to provide this technical assistance and
advice on sewerage and sanitation. This function is temporarily provided by
an expatriate consultant (para. 3.19).
1.11      Central Service Area and Makati Sanitary Sewer Systems.  The
major sanitary sewer system is a conventional system serving 828,000 people
living in 1,880 ha called MWSS' "central service area". It serves 3.5% of
MMA and 13.5% of its population. It includes a collection network, seven
lift stations, trunk sewers and an outfall pump station, force mains and an
ocean outfall at Tondo, the submarine part of which has been washed away.
The land based part of the broken outfall now discharges raw sewage around
the mouth of the Pasig River causing heavy shore pollution. The only other
sanitary sewer system serving MMA is a privately owned modern collection
system and treatment plant, owned and operated by the Ayala ('orporation
serving Makati, a private residential/commercial development. It serves
approximately 650 ha of NMA and S6,400 of its population. Proposals for
MWSS to take over this system in the near future are presently under study.
The two systems are shown in IBRD Map 14464.
1.12      The central service area sewer system is overloaded, badly
deteriorated and requires rehabilitation./3 Unless this is done the
additional sewage generated under the Manila Water Supply Project II (Loan
1615-PH) will overflow through the manholes into the streets in many parts
of this highly congested area, where most of the country's trade. commerce
and some industry is centered. Most of the lift stations in the system are
Lb It is estimated that there are about 190,000 individual septic tanks and
37 community septic tanks that can be pumped. There are about 200,000
vaults or pits in lower income areas.
/2 MMA has three urban development programs named Zonal Improvement Program
(ZIP), Metro Manila Infrastructure and Utilities Program (MMINUTE) and
Bagong Lipunan Improvement of Sites and Services (BLISS) shown in IBRD
Map 14462 which would also benefit from MWSS' technical assistance.
/3 See project file for details.



-5-
worn out, obsolete and require rehabilitation: this work is included in the
proposed project. Simultaneous operation of all stations over a 24-hour
period is unattainable due to their poor mechanical condition and an acute
shortage of trained manpower. The proposed project therefore provides for
training in sewerage operations.
1.13      The Tondo Outfall.  Sewage collected within the central area
collection system flows to the Tondo pumping station from where it is pumped
into Manila Bay at the mouth of the Pasig River through a badly eroded 1,050
mm outfall. Recently, breaks have occurred at several points along the
route of the outfall, two of which are beyond repair.
1.14      To remedy this problem, plans have been prepared by MWSS for
replacing the land based part of the outfall at a cost of P 29.16 million
under the Bank's First Urban Development Project. The proposed project
provides for a new pumping station, extending this outfall and laying a 2.4
km long submarine section with diffusers at the end to disperse the sewage
and enable purification through the natural assimilative capacity of water
in Manila Bay (para. 1.23).
Waste Water Discharges into Manila Bay
1.15      Manila Bay is a marine inlet of the South China Sea and is the
final receiving water for all the agricultural runoff from the Pampanga
River watershed, sewage and urban runoff generated in MMA, and runoff from
the smaller catchments around the Bay. The Bay has a coastline of approxi-
mately 190 km and a surface area of about 1,800 sq km. The Bay represents a
major economic asset to the inhabitants of the Bay area who use it for
commercial fishing (fishponds, shellfish harvesting, fish traps), shipping,
recreation (beach resorts), boating and salt production. The increasingly
uncontrolled pollution of the Bay by pesticides and fertilizers from the
Pampanga River, sewage discharged into the Pasig River, and urban runoff
from Manila is adversely affecting shell fish harvesting, bathing and
boating in the Bay.
1.16      In recent times the Bay has been monitored by the National
Pollution Control Commission (NPCC), though not to a planned program.
However, it has not been possible to differentiate between the relative
impacts of controllable and natural noncontrollable material discharges
into the Bay. The Pampanga River watershed has over 17 times more surface
areas than MWSS' service area, and about five times the area of Manila Bay.
MWSS' service area represents only 3% of the total watershed draining to
Manila Bay (see Map No. 14723).
1.17      Existing Pollution.  The level of pollution of the Bay is not
fully known. Dissolved oxygen in open surface waters of the Bay is
generally good, varying between 6.3 mg/l (saturation value) and 8.5 mg/l,
but high values as much as 11 mg/l have been recorded in the daytime at



mouths of rivers./1 In deeper waters, oxygen depletion increases at depths
during the wet season indicative of oxygen consuming organic sediment being
washed into the Bay from the Pasig and Pampanga Rivers. The proposed
project therefore includes a Bay monitoring program to determine the
relative pollution loads of these rivers degrading water quality (para.
2.13). Near-shore data reflects large oxygen variations (with few values
below 5 mg/l at the mouth /2 of the Pasig River), and points to pollution
resulting from urban sources.
1.18      Waters in the open Bay are generally clear, yet shoreline waters.
especially during the wet season, have high turbidity indicating gross
pollution. Total coliform bacterial counts along the east and south
shoreline of Manila Bay often exceed standards for bathing water quality and
fish farming. The use of total coliform as indicator bacteria is not
specific enough to show whether all beaches are contaminated by fecal
pollution. However, this would seem the case along the Metro Manila shore
line which, despite the high turbidity and heavy pollution from sewage has
popular bathing areas for the poorer people who cannot afford to travel to
less polluted beaches. The project provides for monitoring fecal pollution
in these beaches.
1.19      Trace metals (mercury, copper, lead, zinc, cadmium) occur
occasionally in water samples in concentrations well above anticipated
natural background levels. Cadmium in particular is present in concentra-
tions at times exceeding 0.5 mg/l, i.e. 50 times greater than the NPCC
cadmium limit of 0.01 mg/l indicating a point source problem. Mercury is
present in Manila Bay fish and other marine products utilized for human
consumption. The observed concentration levels for mercury in fish tissue
are, with few exceptions, below the acceptable upper limit values of 2,000
ng/l set by NPCC. NPCC is planning to assist industry with the construction
of facilities to reduce the discharge of wastes containing mercury, cadmium
and other heavy metals into MWSS' sewer system and the Pasig and Paranaque
Rivers, as part of the Manila Solid Wastes Mangement Study financed under
Loan 1415-PH.
1.20      Pesticides (chlorinated hydrocarbons) from agricultural use and
runoff are present in Manila Bay surface waters and rivers flowing into the
Bay. However, the observed concentration levels are, with the exception of
endrin, below the acceptable upper NPCC limits. Endrin exceeded the
allowable limit of 0.02 mg/l with maximum concentrations coinciding with the
May to September planting season. The pH in open Bay waters varies between
7.5 and 8.5 and in shoreline areas between 6.8 and 8.7. The upper values
indicate algal activity. Shoreline BODs vary between 5 mg/l and 8 mg/l in
the dry and wet seasons. In the open waters BODs are generally less than
1 mg/l with no seasonal trends. The amount of data available on water
/I Supersaturation due to photosynthesis from sunlight by algal blooms
caused by discharges of nutrients.
/2 Minimum to support most forms of fish life is 4 mg/l.



- 7-
quality parameters such as COD, color, detergents, total suspended and
dissolved solids, and hardness are insufficient to form any conclusions or
establish trends.
1.21      Oceanographic conditions such as wind, wave and current conditions,
fresh wate- renewal and evaporation have been studied to estimate the
assimilation capacity of Manila Bay. MWSS' catchment of 5.7 sq km is only
3% of the total watershed draining to Manila Bay. The highest fresh water
flow to Manila Bay occurs in August (1,858 cu m/s) while the minimum
(102 cu m/s) is in April. The estimated long-term annual fresh water inflow
is 25 x 109 cu m per year. After allowing for evaporation which varies
between 80 mm in December and 200 mm in April the fresh water budget is
positive throughout the year in the Bay (see Map No. 14723).
1.22      Recent oceanographic studies show that in addition to fresh water
inflow currents, wind and tidal currents also greatly influence Bay current
conditions. The likelihood of a wind induced south to southwest net movement
of surface waters off Manila in the dry season, from about the proposed
Tondo Outfall alignment (para. 1.13) to Cavite, has been substantiated by
these studies.  Otherwise there appear to be no strong or persistent onshore
currents in the Bay and the danger of floatables and greases being carried
to the shore at Cavite would not be more than 10% of the time in a year.
The consultants calculate that the combined wind and tide induced dispersion
provides in the inner part of the Bay a flow of about 1,000 cu m/s,
available for dilution. In the wet season fresh water runoff increases this
rate to about 2,000 cu m/s. Because of the complexity of the currents,
further studies are required to obtain more data for future design.
1.23      Assimilative Capacity of the Bay.  Nutrient loads, based upon
available information calculated for an 8.4 million watershed area popula-
tion, with corresponding livestock and fertilizer loadings indicate that
discharges of sewage into Manila Bay through well-designed ocean outfalls
equipped with diffusers would be possible without serious or irreversible
water quality degradation. The initial dilution from efficient diffusers
would be so large that reduction in dissolved oxygen caused by BOD would not
be significant. BOD is therefore not a critical parameter and sewage
discharged into Manila Bay would therefore be safely assimilated. The
decrease in diversity of flora and fauna and an increase in biomass will
probably be experienced near the diffusers. However, both the Bay and the
proposed Tondo outfall would be monitored by MWSS and NPCC to guard against
any unforeseen situation degrading water quality and beneficial uses of the
Bay (paras. 2.13 and 3.19). MWSS is also making arrangements to acquire
sites at the general locations of three proposed outfalls for future sewage
treatment plants should they be needed and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that arrangements to acquire a suitable site at the Tondo outfall
would be completed by December 31, 1981.
Other Sewerage Projects
1.24      Laguna Lake Development Authority (LLDA).  The LLDA drainage area
overlaps that of MWSS in the municipalities of Montalban, San Mateo,
Marikina, Quezon City, Pasig, Cainta, Pateros, Makati, Taguig and Paranaque.
LLDA is authorized to levy charges for sewerage services in these areas over
which MWSS also has authority to levy similar charges. The issue of



- 8 -
coordinated action between LLDA and MWSS will take time to resolve and an
assurance was obtained from Government during negotiations that it would
take such inter-agency coordination measures as necessary to ensure that
there is no duplication of sewerage charges in the area under the
jurisdiction of MWSS.
1.25      Manila-Cavite Coastal Road and Reclamation Project (MCCRRP).
MCCRRP consists of diverse improvements integrated in and around land fill
and water channels which will occupy an area of 2,915 ha from the
Cultural Center in downtown Manila to Baccor, a total length of 16 km and a
varying width of 1 to 3 km along Manila's forefront. MCCRRP has agreed to
coordinate with MWSS the plans for providing the sewerage services in the
reclaimed areas.
1.26      Tondo Foreshore Project.  This project serves the Tondo waterfront,
the North Harbor and the Vitas areas of MMA. The estimated population
directly served by this project is 160,000. The sewage collection system
when complete would be connected to the existing Tondo pumping station.
1.27      Dagat-Dagatan Project.  The Dagat-Dagatan area was reclaimed and
recently developed as a planned program for low-income housing. The
estimated population served by Phase I of this project is 240,000. The
project is planned to eventually pump its waste water into the MWSS system.
Relationship to Bank's Third Urban Development Project
1.28      This urban project is for the MMA and has three components which
provide water supply, combined sewers, public toilets with bathhouses and
community septic tanks. These are: (a) the Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP)
involving comprehensive slum upgrading; (b) the Metro Manila Infrastructure
Utilities and Engineering Program (MMINUTE) which includes water supply,
construction of public toilets, combined and sanitary sewers including
sewage disposal facilities and road improvements; and (c) a sites and
services program to encourage local entrepreneurs in developing housing
sites. MWSS would be closely involved in providing the water supply,
and sewerage services and construction of public toilets in the Third Urban
Project and would also be responsible for the construction of combined sewers
in the Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project. Arrangements have been
made for coordinating the two projects in areas where such coordination
would be beneficial (see para.  3.17).
Bank Lending for the Sector
1.29      The Bank's strategy in sewerage and sanitation is to support the
Government's investment program for improving water supply, sewerage and
sanitation facilities aimed at serving the low income groups and to provide
technical assistance for institution building and staff development. Three
Bank loans of $23 million, $88 million and $38 million were made in 1977,
1978 and 1979 for water supply projects in provincial cities and Metropoli-
tan Manila. The proposed project would be the Bank's first major involvement
in a sewerage and sanitation project in the Philippines. It is expected
that future Bank assistance for similar projects will be proposed for urban



-9-
areas outside Manila. Investments may also be proposed for a solid wastes
management project in Manila as the next priority for improving sanitation.
1.30      Basic citywide needs are all linked and improvements are being
developed simultaneously in an effort to keep Manila reasonab'y clean.
These include the supply of adequate quantities of safe water to keep the
population clean and healthy, the efficient and quick disposal of human
wastes, the organized distribution of fruits, vegetables, fish and meat
coupled with the timely collection and disposal of their residual organic
wastes and the reduction of air and water pollution by industrial wastes.
In the next review of the Capital Improvement Folio (CIF) these needs should
be stressed and it should be emphasized that such utility services can be
provided at little or no cost to governments' capital budget and particu-
larly to the urban poor through external financing, local loans and cross
subsidies administered through efficient public utilities. The Bank should
continue its present support for such projects.
2. THE BORROWER, BENEFICIARIES AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
The Borrower and Beneficiaries
2.01      The Borrower of the proposed Bank Loan of $63.0 million will be the
Republic of the Philippines which will relend, on the same terms and condi-
tions as the Bank loan, the bulk of its proceeds ($62.5 million) to MWSS to
finance a part of the Manila Sewerage Project. The Government will provide
the balance of $0.5 million to NPCC for monitoring water quality in Manila
Bay. The beneficiaries of the project will be some 3 million people living
mostly in congested and low income areas who will have improved sanitation.
Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
2.02      History.  MWSS is a wholly government-owned public utility corpora-
tion. Prior to its creation in 1971, responsibility for all water supply and
sewerage systems then existing in the country devolved on the National
Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), which had been established in June
1955 under Republic Act 1383. NWSA was abolished in September 1971 and MWSS
was created in its place under a new charter (Republic Act No. 6234),
primarily to serve the needs of MMA. Steps were taken in 1974 to strengthen
MWSS' financial position by the restructuring of its capital and raising of
water and sewerage tariffs. Since then MWSS has received loans from ADB
($100.3 million) and IBRD ($85.0 million) for the on-going Second Manila
Water Supply Project (Loan 1615-PH) and is developing steadily into becoming
a reasonably good utility.
2.03      Organization.  MWSS is organized and functions as a modern public
utility with a fair degree of autonomy. Overall control and responsibility
for policy decisions and supervision is vested in a Board of Trustees
consisting of 5 members: a Chairman, 3 Trustees and a General Manager (who
is also the ex-officio Vice-President of the Board), all appointed by the
President of the Philippines. The Board formulates policies, approves
budgets, recommends tariff adjustments, determines the system's staff



- 10 -
pattern and the number of personnel, fixes their salaries and other emoluments
(subject to government's general directions in these matters) and defines
their powers and duties.  It issues necessary regulations for the conduct of
business.
2.04      The day-to-day management is vested in the General Manager who is
assisted by four Assistant General Managers (appointed by the Board subject
to the approval of the President of the Philippines) one each for engineering;
operations; finance and administration; commercial and customers services;
and 13 Heads of Departments who work under the Assistant General Managers.
In addition, there are the Corporate Services, Internal Audit and Corporate
Planning Offices. MWSS' organization is shown in Chart 20879.
2.05      The engineering department is responsible for the conception,
design and construction of new works. It also contains the office for
Engineering and Special Projects (ESP), which is responsible for the Manila
Water Supply Project, (Loan 1615-PH) the proposed Sanitation and Sewerage
Project and for planning the next stage water supply and sewerage projects.
The operations department consists of divisions for sources, treatment, and
distribution. The commercial department has divisions for customer services,
meter reading, billing and collection. The finance and administration
department is responsible for administration and accounting, and financial
planning and control. This organizational structure is satisfactory. It is
provided in Loan 1615-PH that before any major changes are made in this
structure in future, the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on
the proposed changes.
2.06      Management.  The present Acting General Manager is experienced and
qualified and manages MWSS satisfactorily. He has the stature to work with
the Government and MWSS' Board in the making and implementation of major
policy. The Assistant General Managers are also well qualified and
experienced.
2.07      The ESP is headed by a competent manager/engineer who works
harmoniously with the expatriate consultants assisting with the design and
supervision of project construction. He is also the Assistant General
Manager (Engineering). ESP has been recently strengthened by the addition
of two Project Managers, one for water supply and another for sewerage. The
position of a new Project Manager for Sanitation is expected to be created
shortly (see Chart 20880 for ESP organization). The present management team
is competent and Loan 1615-PH provides that before filling any future
vacancies in the key positions of the General Manager, the Assistant General
Managers and the Project Mlanager for Water Supply it would give the Bank an
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the proposed
candidates. A similar assurance was obtained during negotiations for the
positions of Project Managers for Sewerage and Sanitation. The position of
Project Manager for Sanitation is expected to be created and filled by mid-
1980.
2.08      MWSS has made steady progress since its creation in 1971.
Unaccounted for water has been slightly reduced from 50% in 1976 to 46%
in 1979. Loan 1615-PH provides for the metering of all service connections.
About 140,000 new meters have already been installed (there are 300,000



- 11 -
service connections at present) and financial results have improved. The
heavy investment program which MWSS is undertaking is beyond any comparison
with its past achievements and it is therefore seeking expert advice and
technical an- managerial assistance for implementing the program and
deriving its full benefits. For this purpose, the on-going water supply
project includes engineering consultants for design and construction
supervision and adequate management consulting services. MWSS is also about
to decentralize operations and maintenance functions for water supply and
sewerage and organize and equip an urgently needed water supply and sewerage
staff training school. Training consultants for 24 man-months to help
establish the training school and formulate and implement the training
program have been selected and are expected to be appointed in mid-1980.
MWSS is preparing a staffing plan to adequately cope with its expanded
activities including sanitation and sewerage. The locations of the existing
sewerage house connections in the central service area are not exactly known.
When the system is expanded to Dagupan and Pandacan, house connections will
have to be given without delay. MWSS should also make required changes to
the organization for efficiently operating and maintaining the system.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by January 1, 1981 MWSS
would: (a) organize and staff a Connections Office for Sewerage with a Task
Force to ensure that house connections are made to a schedule to be agreed
with the Bank; and (b) reorganize the branch offices in the Central Sewer
District, with sufficient staff, to operate and maintain the system.
Billing, Collections and Receivables
2.09      Billing is computerized and bills are issued to consumers on
monthly cycles. Collections are decentralized and are the responsibility of
15 branch offices. As of June 30, 1979 receivables from customers
represented more than 6 months of billings. Although some improvement has
been shown, unless effective actions are taken, MWSS will not be able to
meet the target set in Loan 1615-PH of reducing the receivables at the end
of 1980 to no more than 4 months of billings. Disconnection procedures need
to be reviewed and implemented in a stricter manner. MWSS is preparing a
comprehensive action program for improving collections, to be put in operation
in early 1980. This will include the different aspects of customer service
relations, as well as a plan to further reduce unaccounted for water.
2.10      At the end of 1978 accounts receivable from water and sewer custom-
ers were P 115.5 million and the allowance for doubtful accounts was
P 85.2 million. This provision is adequate to cover all overdue receivables
older than 6 months. In Loan 1615-PH it was agreed that MWSS will write off
and remove from its books the receivables which it considers uncollectible.
About half of the uncollectible accounts beyond 1967 have been written off
and MWSS is awaiting Commission on Audit's (COA) approval for writing off
the remainder.



- 12 -
Accounts and Audit
2.11      MWSS has an adequate commercial accounting system.  The staff
which includes a number of CPAs, is competent. The audit of the accounts is
carried out by a resident Auditor of COA who certifies the annual financial
statements and reports to the Board. The audit is independent and is gener-
ally satisfactory. As agreed in Loan 1615-PH, MWSS' accounts will be
audited by COA or other independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
annual audited financial statements and the auditor's report to management
will be furnished to the Bank within four months of the close of each year.
2.12      Prior to 1976, the COA's staff also carried out internal audit
functions. In April 1976, the scope of COA's internal audit was reduced
to cover only certain specified types of transactions and the responsibility
for pre-auditing other transactions was assumed by MWSS, and is carried
out partly by the cashiers and the accounting divisions and partly by the
management services office. To discharge the internal audit functions
efficiently, MWSS undertook in Loan 1615-PH to establish and staff an
internal audit division directly responsible to the General manager and lay
down detailed procedures for internal audit. The internal audit office has
since been set up under the General 1Manager, is being staffed and will
become fully operational in early 1980.
National Pollution Control Commission (NPCC)
2.13      The NPCC was created on June 18, 1964 under Republic Act No. 3931,
as amended by Presidential Decree No. 984. Its powers and functions include:
investigating the extent and magnitude of pollution of air, water and land
resources; taking necessary measures to prevent and abate pollution; issuing
standards, rules and regulations for permits for wastewater treatment and
disposal systems, including those of private industry; and establishing
receiving water quality standard and promulgating rules and regulations to
protect receiving waters. Direct coordination between NPCC and MISS is
essential for controlling the water pollution in 1414A. NPCC is presently
carrying out a limited monitoring of Manila Bay shoreline waters, which will
be considerably expanded into a comprehensive program with equipment
purchased under the project and assistance by consultants. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that by July 1, 1981, NPCC, with the assistance
of consultants acceptable to the Bank, would have commenced work on the
sampling program for Manila Bay and would furnish quarterly reports to the
Bank with an analysis of the results. The NPCC would closely follow NWSS'
monitoring program of the new submarine outfall and would advise on the
timing of providing sewage treatment. NPCC has recently set up a Task Force
to study methods for encouraging industry to remove toxic substances before
the disposal of industrial wastes (see paras. 2.15 and 3.19).



- 13 -
Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC)
2.14      The Metropolitan Manila Commission (MMC) was created under
Presidential Decree No. 824 on November 7, 1975. It is the gmjerning body
with executive power over Metro-Manila, a public corporation created under
the same decree. MMC is headed by a Governor, assisted by a Vice-Governor
and three Commissioners or Board Members and is the central administrative
agency in charge of all activities, projects and programs in the whole of
Metro Manila. The powers and functions of MMC within Metro Manila include
the following: to act as a central government to establish and administer
programs and services; to review, amend, revise or repeal all ordinances,
resolutions and acts of cities and municipalities; to coordinate and monitor
governmental and private activities pertaining to essential services such as
transportation, flood control and drainage, water supply and sewerage,
social health and environmental services, housing, park development and
others; to establish a garbage disposal operation center which will direct
garbage collection and disposal operations; to ensure and monitor the
undertaking of comprehensive social, economic and physical planning and
development. MWSS will construct the combined sewers in the project in the
respective cities and municipalities of the metropolitan area in
coordination with MMC (see para. 3.17).
2.15      MWSS in coordination with 11Mc is planning to carry out a Solid
Wastes Management Study for Metro-Manila with Bank assistance /1 and
financing under Loan 1415-PH. MMC has set up a task force to identify areas
of gross pollution by organic wastes, such as by public markets, and to
ensure good planning for the efficient distribution of perishable foods such
as meat, fish, fruits and vegetables and the subsequent collection and
disposal of the organic wastes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that MWSS in cooperation with MMC carries out the Solid Wastes Management
Study, (incorporating the recommendations of MMC's Task Force and NPCC's
Task Force on toxic industrial wastes), and furnish to the Bank the findings
by December 31, 1981.
University of the Philippines: Institute of Public Health
2.16      The Institute of Public Health of the University of the
Philippines (UP) will collect health statistics for the health monitoring
program. The statistics would be obtained from health clinics in the
proposed project's low income areas. MWSS and UP have generally agreed on
the details (and reports to the Bank) and would continuously analyze the
results. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that UP and MWSS
would by January 1, 1981, enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the implementation of the health monitoring program.
/1 The Bank's cartography division is providing technical assistance through
the use of computer mapping.



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
Ob_Jectives
3.01      The project is consistent with the Government's strategy to
improve basic services to the urban population and is part of a Master Plan
for Sewerage and Sanitation for Metro-Manila.  The main objectives of the
project are to improve sanitation in the poor and densely populated areas of
Metropolitan Manila and develop an institutional strategy for implementing
similar projects in future. The project would remove stagnant pools of
sewage from most of the streets of the city; collect health statistics in
these areas for a health monitoring program; train IIWSS personnel in
constructing, operating and maintaining a modern sanitary sewer system, and
in constructing combined sewers. Water quality in Manila Bay would be
monitored as a basis for improving the Bay's beneficial uses and preserving
its assimilative capacity.
Project Description
3.02      The project has four components:  sewerage; sanitation; prepara-
tion of future projects and overseas training; and water quality monitoring.
The sewerage component is proposed for financing by the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and the other components for financing by the Bank. The main
features of the project are summarized below:
ADB Financing
Part A
(a)  Construction of a 1.8 m diameter and 3.6 km long outfall at Tondo
into Manila Bay for disposal of sewage from Central Manila;
(b)  construction of a new pumping station to replace the obsolete main
Tondo pumping station with an increase of capacity from 3.6 to 5.5
cu m per second;
(c)  rehabilitation and upgrading of seven sewage lift stations at
Sta. Anna, Sta. Cruz, Legarda, Luneta, Port Area, Malate, and Paco;
(d)  reduction of inflow and infiltration, repairing clogged and
broken sewer pipes, sealing connections to the Pasig river and
rehabilitating approximately 120 km of existing trunk sewers in
the central service area system; and
(e) detailed design and construction supervision.



- 15 -
Bank Financing
Part B
(a) Construction of a sanitary sewage collection system, including
house connections, covering 280 ha in Dagupan and 360 ha in
Pandacan contiguous to the central service area system;
(b) providing technical services for improving sanitation in low
income blighted areas;
(c) implementation of a pilot sanitation project;
(d) construction of combined sewers in about 730 ha of low income
areas with conditions of great hazard to public health, and in
about 680 ha with conditions of significant hazard to public
health (para. 1.07);
(e) equipment for (i) a septic tank emptying program; (ii) maintenance
of sanitary sewers- and (iii) maintenance of combined sewers;
(f)  monitoring of the new submarine Tondo outfall including a waste
water laboratory;
(g) health monitoring and
(h) detailed design and supervision of construction.
Part C
(a) Detailed design of next stage water supply, sanitation and
sewerage projects; and
(b) overseas training of MWSS staff in sewerage operations.
Part D
(a) Monitoring of Manila Bay water quality including needed equipment.
Project Concept and Composition
3.03      The project offers an affordable solution to MMA's problems on
sanitation. MMA will have the opportunity to achieve and maintain a decent
standard of sanitation within a reasonable time frame. The project concept
and composition are unique because this is the first time that a broad based
plan has been developed for tackling one of the principal causes of bad
urban sanitation, i.e. the lack of safe disposal of human wastes. This is
also the first time that a city has been graded for sanitation and an attempt



- 16 -
been made to remove the urban poor's contact with sewage. The proposed
project was prepared by MWSS with the assistance of James M. Montgomery
(USA), DCCD Engineering Corporation (Philippines) and Kampsax-Kruger
(Denmark), (JDK), financed under Loan 1415-PH. From options believed to
be affordable by MMA's residents, twenty-one alternatives were studied by
the consultants. Thirteen of the alternatives were selected for final
evaluation. From the thirteen alternatives an action plan for the period
1980-2000 was selected, sizes and prices of physical components of systems
were calculated and construction, operation and maintenance costs were
compared by present worth analysis (see paras. 5.02 and 5.03 for details) in
arriving at the least cost solution.
3.04      The consultants' approach included identifying poverty areas;
determining income levels, income distribution, food consumption, shelter,
utilities, etc.; determining willingness to pay and desired priorities for
water and wastewater; analyzing river hydrology and flood incidence as
related to public health and other sanitation parameters. Based upon this
study a matrix for sanitation improvement in low income areas was prepared
for use by MWSS to guide all public agencies such as those providing
rehabilitation of depressed areas, community housing, etc. This matrix is
based on physical and social factors and determines appropriate systems for
excreta disposal. Factors such as existing sanitary levels, population
density, soils, topography, and lot size are on the matrix. Sanitation
and/or wastewater units are so priced and designed that units can be
combined to arrive at low cost site specific solutions./l Following the
grading of those areas of the city (para. 1.07) where the hazard of people
making contact with sewage exists, a pilot project was started to determine
the best and most affordable method of removing the sewage through the
construction of combined sewers in those areas./2
3.05      The study of alternatives showed that the first step in providing
sewerage and sanitation to Manila at the lowest per capita cost should be a
project comprising the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing central
sewer system, starting a program for building combined sewers, and providing
for the safe disposal of excreta in low income areas.
Cost Estimates
3.06      The summary project cost estimates are based on recent construc-
tion bids and are given below. The detailed cost estimates are at Table 3-1
and 3-2 and the facilities are illustrated in IBRD Maps 14462, 14463 and
14464.
/1   Substantial input was provided from the Bank's research work in this
field.
/2 Generally referred to as a Program for Removing Sewage from the Streets
(PROGRESS).



- 1 7 -
COST ESTDIATES
Foreign
Project costs                         Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total        exchange
------- P million -------         ---- US$ million -------            %)
ADB Financing
Part A
Total cost - sewerage
rehabilitation                    301.8      316.5    618.3         40.8       42.8       83.6         51
(Details at Table 3-1)
Bank Financing
Part B
Collection system:
Sanitary sewers                    65.8       33.2      99.0         8.9        4.5       13.4
Combined sewers                    85.7       52.8    138.5         11.6        7.1       18.7
Pilot project                       1.7        0.9       2.6         0.2        0.1        0.3
House connections                  13.3        6.7      20.0         1.8        0.9        2.7
Wastewater laboratory               2.3        1.4       3.7         0.3        0.2        0.5
14aintenance equipment              3.9       22.7      26.6         0.5        3.1        3.6
Mlonitoring programs                2.7        2.2       4.9         0.4        0.3        0.7
Subtotal Part B              175.4      119.9    295.3         23.7        16.2      39.9          41
Part C
Detailed design:
Water supply                       33.8       65.8      99.6         4.6        8.9       13.5
Sewerage and sanitation            27.1       40.5      67.6         3.6        5.5        9.1
Overseas training                      -         3.4       3.4          -         0.4        0.4
Subtotal Part C               60.9      109.7    170.6           8.2       14.8      23.0          64
Part D
l4anila Bay monitoring                2.8        3.2       6.0         0.4        0.4        0.8
Subtotal Parts B to D        239.1      232.8    471.9         32.3       31.4       63.7          49
Detailed Design and Construction    23.6           8.6      32.2          3.2        1.2       4.4         47
Supervision
Baseline cost  Parts B to D         262.7      241.4    504.1         35.5       32.6       68.1         48
Contingencies
Physical                             28.1       20.0      48.1         3.8        2.7        6.5
Price                                82.4       59.9    142.3         11.1        8.1       19.2
Subtotal Contingencies       110.5       79.9    190.4         14.9       10.8       25.7
Total Cost - Sanitation    373.2        321.3    694.5         50.4       43.4       93.8          46
TOTAL PROJECT COST           675.0      637.8  1,312.8          91.2      86.2      177.4          48



- 18 -
Population Served
3.07      The population projections and water usage are similar to those
developed for the Mlanila Water Supply Project II /1 (Loan 1615-PH) which
was made effective on December 21, 1978. These projections have been
reviewed and found to be valid. MWSS is presently measuring sewage flows
from housing in various income levels. For the purposes of the master plan
studies sewage generation was assumed to be 70% of water consumption as
calculated in the water supply project. This is a reasonable assumption
given that all of the waste water does not flow into the sewers.  The total
served population at the time of project completion at end-1984 is summar-
ized below for each component of the project. Details are at Table 3-3:
1980     1982    1984
-----(thousands)-----
Total population in MWSS service area                  6,733    7,561   8,125
Population Served /a
Sanitary sewers:
Rehabilitation of Central Sewer System               497       552     610
Extension of sewers to Dagupan and Pandacan           -         54     169
Combined sewers
Upgrading class 4 area to class 2                     -        635     691
Upgrading class 3 area to class 2                     -        198     215
Septic tank emptying service
Community septic tanks                                -          -     320
Household septic tanks                                -          -   1,000
Total served population                         497    1,439   3,005
/a Includes population served by public toilets.
Project Cost and Financing
3.08      The project is estimated to cost $177.4 million including a
foreign exchange expenditure of $86.2 million. ADB is considering parallel
financing of $42.0 million to cover the foreign exchange component of Part A.
The proposed Bank loan of $63.0 million together with ADB's loan will
finance 59% of the total project cost. The $63.0 million would be 67% of
the Bank project (Parts B, C and D) and would include $19.6 million of local
currency expenditures. This amount of local cost financing is justified to
help the country meet its external financing needs. The total financing
required for the project including interest during construction and working
capital is $230.8 million. The Bank and the ADB loan would meet about 45% of
these financing requirements. A summary of its financing plan for the
project is as follows:
/1   SAR No. 1978-PH dated July 7, 1978.



- 19 -
p         US$
-   million -----   Percentage
Requirements
Manila sewerage and sanitation project          1,312.8      177.4          77
Interest capitalized during construction          386.1       52.2          22
Increase in MWSS' working capital                   9.0        1.2           1
Total requirements                         1,707.9      230.8         100
Sources of Funds
MWSS' Internal cash generation                    356.0       48.1          21
Less:  Debt Service                                54.5        7.3           3
Net Internal cash generation               301.5      40.8          18
Borrowings:  from IBRD                            466.2       63.0          27
from ADB                            310.8       42.0          18
from Government                     255.2       34.5          15
Total borrowings                           1,032.2      139.5          60
Government capital contributions                  374.2       50.5          22
Total Sources                              1,707.9     230.8         100
3.09      Borrowings will provide 60%, Government capital contributions 22%
and MWSS's internal cash generation 18% of the project requirements. The
Government will relend to MWSS $62.5 million of the proceeds of the loan
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The terms and
conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement will be the same as those of the
Bank loan, 20 year repayment period, including a 5 year grace period and an
interest rate of 8.25% p.a. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
MWSS. Government will allocate the balance of $0.5 million to NPCC to
finance the foreign component of the Monitoring of Manila Bay. It was
agreed during negotiations that a condition of disbursement for Dagupan and
Pandacan collection systems in Part B(a) of the project would be the
execution of a loan agreement between MWSS and ADB for Part A of the project
(see Para. 3.08). Retroactive financing of $250,000 for the ongoing pilot
sanitation project representing 75% of total costs and $750,000 for the
foreign costs of consulting fees for detailed design is recommended. In
addition, the Government will contribute P 369.5 million (US$49.9 million)
to MWSS's equity, P 1.1 million (US$0.2 million) to the University of the
Philippines (UP) to finance the Health Monitoring Program and P 3.6
million (US$0.5 million) to NPCC to finance the local component of the Bay
Monitoring Program. The financing plan is satisfactory and was agreed with
the Government during negotiations.



- 20 -
3.10      A Government loan to MWSS of P 255.2 million (US$34.5 million) is
expected to be required. Government is evaluating alternative procedures
for making this loan. For projection purposes, the same terms agreed for
financing the Second Manila Water Supply project have been assumed (20 years
including 5 years grace period and 12% p.a. interest rate)./l
Contingencies
3.11      Most of the project construction is below ground in densely
populated areas with many other utilities and uncertain soil conditions.
Physical contingencies of 20% of the baseline cost of the sewerage and
sanitation component have been provided except for the Tondo sewage pump
station on which detailed design is nearing completion and a reduced
contingency of 15% has been provided. Provision for price contingencies
has been made as follows: 16% for 1980, 10% for 1981, 7% for 1982 and
thereafter for the local component; the foreign component was escalated at
10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% from 1983 to 1985.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.12      The Dagupan and Pandacan collection systems estimated at $8.41
million (P 62 million) and $5.0 million (P 37 million) respectively
are suitable for international competitive bidding following Bank procedures.
Two bids would be called for these works after approval by the Bank of the
bid documents and detailed design. The installation of service connections
estimated at $2.7 million (P 20 million) would form part of these
contracts./2 The sanitation component consists of the construction of
combined sewers in most of the municipalities in the project area. These
works are scattered throughout Metro-Manila and so as not to disrupt traffic
the work has been scheduled for staged construction throughout the 1980-82
construction program. The contracts for the works in each area are
generally small in nature, ranging from $0.5 to $1.0 million and call for
the supply and installation of the combined sewer pipes. Such works are
likely to be more attractive to local contractors though foreign
contractors would be permitted to bid. The four PROGRESS Project Teams
(see para. 3.17) responsible for constructing the combined sewers would,
to the extent practicable, group together contracts to make them attractive
for large as well as small contractors. Pipes for combined sewers are
/1 If the Government's equity contribution and loan to MWSS were to be
avoided a wastewater charge of about 20% on the water bill would be
required, instead of the 10% considered feasible by the Government. The
implementation of such a large charge is not considered practicable at
this time.
/2 House connections, i.e. the sewer pipeline connecting the service
connection from the boundary of the property at the curb to the
sanitary fittings will be financed to low income families with repayment
up to five years.



- 21 -
expected to be of calcareous reinforced concrete designed with extra
thickness for hydrogen sulphide attack and would be produced locally by
several small factories scattered throughout the project area. A total of
some 40 to 60 small contracts are expected for combined sewers and would be
awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
MWSS' local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory and
appropriate for these works and acceptable to the Bank./l These contracts
are expected to be won by local contractors and account for 47% of the
Bank's component of the project. All equipment required for the monitoring
programs and MWSS' new laboratory would be grouped together and procured
through international competitive bidding.  Most of this equipment is not
available in the Philippines. Vehicles, tools and maintenance equipment
would also be procured through international competitive bidding. A
preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers for procurement through international competitive bidding.
Off-the-shelf items costing less than $20,000 each, urgently required for
project completion, would be procured through local shopping procedures
satisfactory to the Bank provided the total cost of such items does not
exceed $500,000 equivalent.
3.13      Disbursements for civil works would be 75% of expenditures.  For
equipment and materials, disbursements would be at 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured equipment and 75% of goods procured locally. For
detailed design, construction supervision and overseas training,
disbursements would be 100% of expenditures. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is at Table 3.4.
Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
3.14      MWSS will be solely responsible for installing the sanitary
sewers. MWSS would install the combined sewers and coordinate their work
with MPW and MMC. MWSS and NPCC will carry out the Bay monitoring program;
MWSS and UP will undertake the health monitoring program. JDK consultants
will assist in the preparation of detailed design and bid documents,
evaluation of bids and supervision of construction. Detailed design was
assumed to be 6.5%, construction supervision 5.5%, and MWSS administrative
costs as 3% of the baseline project cost. A small contingency provision,
ranging from 5.5% to 10% has been made for these items to allow for
unforseen changes. MWSS is currently negotiating with JDK for the above
services and also for carrying out detailed design for the next stage
sanitation and sewerage project and providing technical assistance for the
/1 Because these works are similar in nature the format of the bid docu-
ments would be standardized and agreed with the Bank to facilitate
and expedite review.



- 22 -
Outfall monitoring programs. In total an estimated 800 /1 man-months of
internationally recruited consultants services has been provided for these
services. The total support provided by local consultants is about 2,680
man-months T stly in services such as drafting and assisting the foreign
consultants. MWSS will employ engineering consultants whose experience and
terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank for updating feasibility
studies and carrying out detailed designs for the next stage water supply
project for which an estimated 850 /2 man-months of internationally recruited
consultant services and about 1,400 man-months of local consultant support
services have been provided in the project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the experience, terms and conditions of all consulting
services in the project will be acceptable to the Bank. The average man-
month cost for internationally recruited consultants including transportation,
housing and local costs, in 1980, is estimated to range from US$8,000-
US$10,000 depending on qualifications and experience. This is reasonable.
Local professionally qualified senior consulting staff are estimated to cost
P 10,000 per man-month; local draftsmen are estimated at P 3,500 per
man-month.
Project Implementation
3.15      Project implementation is expected to begin in 1980; the construc-
tion of the sewerage component should be completed by 1985. Construction of
the combined sewers in Part B is expected to be completed by end 1982. The
contract schedule is shown in Table 3.5. The training and detailed
design components in Part C are expected to be completed by end 1984. NPCC
will implement Part D as a continuing program. The closing date for the
loan is December 31, 1985.
3.16      MWSS' ESP will provide the overall supervision and administration
for project implementation. The project managers for Sewerage and
Sanitation will be responsible for day-to-day liaison with the consultants.
The project manager for the next stage water supply project assisted by
consultants will be responsible for reviewing feasibility studies and
carrying out detailed design for this part. The implementation schedule is
in Chart 20976. MWSS' specially created training division would implement
the training program in sewerage maintenance and operations and would take
responsibility for administering the staff training provided in the project.
/1 Engineering Office 60; design of full combined sewer program, advisory
services in sanitation and construction supervision 166; Next stage
project design 382; Dagupan and Pandacan supervision of construction
43; water quality monitoring and miscellaneous sanitation services,
149. (Does not include supervision of construction of ADB's sewerage
component - this is included in Part A.)
/2 Project Management 80; dam and appurtenant works 220; treatment 220;
transmission and storage 60; distribution 270.



- 23 -
Coordination with Third Urban Development Project
3.17      MWSS would set up four PROGRESS Project Teams in the four District
Offices in the four cities of Manila, Quezon, Caloocan and Pasay as proposed
in the Ban 3 Third Urban Development Project. These Project Teams would be
responsible for designing and constructing the PROGRESS (combined sewers)
component of the project. The City Engineers in the four cities would be
ex-officio District Managers of the four District Offices and would be
assisted by full time Deputy District Managers. The four PROGRESS Project
Team Leaders will report through their respective District Managers to the
PROGRESS Project Manager in the Program Office headed by one Program Director
for both PROGRESS and MMINUTE. The Program Director will be directly respon-
sible and report to MWSS on PROGRESS through an Executive Committee composed
of officials from MPW, MMC and MWSS. MMC will receive on-the-job-training
in the construction of the combined sewers and take them over for maintenance.
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan will be the execution of
an agreement acceptable to the Bank between MWSS and MMC defining
responsibilities and procedures for constructing the combined sewers.
3.18      Coordination with the Bank's Third Urban Development Project has
been ensured by having one Program Director and Program Office for both the
MMINUTE and PROGRESS works in the construction of combined sewers. Other
components of the MMINUTE program such as water supply, sanitary sewers and
sewage disposal facilities would be constructed by MPW and turned over to
MWSS. The organizational arrangements are illustrated in Chart 21342 and
were discussed during negotiations and were found to be satisfactory. Similar
arrangements are proposed for the Third Urban Development Project.
Industrial Wastes
3.19      While there would be an immediate improvement to public health
arising from the project there is a danger that the industrial wastes
discharged into the sanitary or combined sewers could adversely affect water
quality in Manila Bay. NPCC has set up a task force to study methods for
financing industries to construct, operate, and maintain facilities to
remove toxic substances from industrial wastes now polluting MMA. MWSS and
NPCC would incorporate the findings of the task force in the Solid Wastes
Management Study (discussed in para 2.15). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (a) Government would promulgate by January 1, 1981
suitable industrial wastes regulations in order to reduce or eliminate toxic
discharges from industry into rivers, esteros and Manila Bay; (b) beginning
January 1, 1982 MWSS would carry out a monitoring program of the new Tondo
Outfall with assistance from consultants acceptable to the Bank. It is
understood that MWSS would promptly implement the industrial wastes regula-
tions promulgated by Government. MWSS expects to appoint, within its Office
of Engineering and Special Projects, a senior official to provide external
liaison with Government agencies on sewerage and sanitation, coordinate
action on all of the components of the project, and advise on sanitation and
sewerage in accordance with the Sewerage Master Plan. The appointment would
be made before the expatriate consultant now carrying out this function is
terminated on June 30, 1980.



- 24 -
Operation and Maintenance
3.20      MWSS will operate and maintain the sanitary sewer system and the
septic tank maintenance program.  MC will operate and maintain the combined
sewer system. The project provides for the initial purchase of the labor
intensive type of equipment needed for removing blockages from the combined
sewers and for the training of MMC staff. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that MMC would provide the required organization staff and
funds for operating and maintaining the system.
Prolect Supervision
3.21      Review by Bank Staff would cover the preparation of detailed
designs and supervision of construction. As far as possible this would be
coordinated with the timing of supervision missions by the Urban Development
Division. It is estimated that a minimum of two missions per year would be
required during the initial period with less frequent visits thereafter.
4. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.01      MWSS' financial position improved greatly in 1974 when Government
converted into equity all the loans previously granted to the system and
increased tariffs by 100%. In subsequent years increases in operating costs
coupled with large cash requirements to meet its development program, made
it necessary to have a tariff increase of about 60% in October 1978. The
following is a summary of MWSS' financial results in the past four years:



- 25 -
1979
1976      1977       1978      (estimate)
----------(P million)-----
Operating revenues                   133.0      136.7      169.1       261.0
Operating expenses                    76.9       93.3      103.1       132.6
Depreciation                          21.6       20.3       30.8         52.6
Total operating costs            98.5      113.6     133.9        185.2
Operating income                      34.5       23.1       35.2         75.8
Interest charged to operations         7.5        7.0        6.8         5.4
Nonoperating revenues                 19.3       30.0       25.0         28.6
Net income                       46.3       46.1      53.4         99.0
Key Monitoring Indicators
Rate of Return                       2.5        2.2        1.6/a       3.0/a
Operating ratio /b                    74         83         79           71
Average water rates (P/cum)          0.48       0.48       0.56        0.88
Sewer rate (% of water bill)          50         50         50          50
j/ On revalued net fixed assets.
lb After depreciation.
4.02      The full impact of the tariff increase will be reflected in fiscal
year 1979. For that year it is expected that MWSS will be able to meet the 3%
rate of return on net revalued fixed assets convenanted in Loan 1615-PH.
4.03      MWSS has an authorized capital of P 3.0 billion.  Nevertheless,
its paid-in capital was only P 602 million as of December 31, 1978.
Government equity contributions have been P 16.0 million in 1976, P 10.0
million in 1977 and P 112.0 million in 1978. Because of the slow starting
on the major investment programs, this has not presented any problems to
MWSS.
Financing Plan
4.04      MWSS' financing plan for the project construction period 1980-85 is
presented below:



- 26 -
p          US$
million    million    Percentage
Requirements
Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project /a   1,303.3          176.1
Second Manila Water Supply Project             2,927.8       395.6
Third Manila Water Supply Project              2,929.7       395.9
Other capital works                              589.3        79.6
Interest capitalized during construction    1,107.6          149.7
Increase in working capital                      106.1        14.4
Total requirements                        8,963.8    1,211.3
Sources
Internal cash generation                       4,071.9       550.2
Less:  Debt service (excluding IDC)             -979.8      -132.4
Net cash generation                            3,092.1       417.8         34
Foreign borrowings:
IBRD proposed loan                             462.5        62.5
Other foreign loans                          3,127.0       422.5
Total foreign borrowings                 3,589.5        485.0        40
Government's equity contribution                   898.2       121.4         10
Government's loans                               1,222.8       165.3         14
Customers' contributions                           161.2        21.8          2
Total sources of funds                    8,963.8    1,211.3         100
/a  Excludes the cost of Health Monitoring to be implemented by the University
of the Philippines and the Monitoring of the Bay under the responsibility
of NPCC.
4.05      MWSS' financial requirement for its investment program over the
period 1980-85 is about P 8.9 billion ($1.2 billion). This represents a
substantial increase over the investment level of the past five years, when
expansion of Manila's water and sewerage facilities was neglected. In
addition to the proposed project, MWSS investment program includes the
Second Manila Water Supply project financed under Loan 1615-PH, a future
water supply project under study at present, and the second stage of the
combined sewerage program. Contribution to MWSS financial requirements
from its internal cash generation is expected to be about 34%; 40% will
come from foreign loans; Government is expected to contribute about 24%



- 27 -
(10% as equity and 14% as loans); and consumers' contributions will account
for about 2%. This is a satisfactory financing plan. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MWSS will: (a) carry out an annual review
of the financial requirements for the coming year in order to determine:
(i) amount o'f equity contribution required from Government; (ii) amount of
local borrowings required; and (iii) tariffs required for water and
sewerage; and (b) furnish such review to the Bank for comments, not later
than October 1 of each year commencing in 1980 through 1985.
Future Financial Performance
4.06      MWSS projected financial statements are presented in Tables 4.1
to 4.5.   A summary of the Income Statements from 1980 to 1985 follows:
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985
------------------- (P million) --------------
Operating revenues            363.0    612.6  1,011.0  1,274.5  1,431.8  1,613.0
Operating expenses            198.2    287.0    364.0    426.9    478.9    533.4
Depreciation                   68.6      92.2    145.9    204.0    235.5    269.8
Total operating
cost                  266.8    379.2    509.9    630.9    714.4    803.2
Operating income               96.2    233.4    501.1    643.6    717.4    809.8
Interest charged to
operations                   23.4      33.2     32.8      30.1    183.6    206.5
Nonoperating revenues          18.4       8.9       3.9       4.9      5.9       7.5
Net income                91.2    209.1    472.2    618.4    539.7    610.8
Rate of Return                  3.0       5.7       8.1       7.7      7.6       7.7
Average water rate (P/cum) 1.02        1.21      1.66     1.85   1.95         2.01
Sewer rate (% of water bill)   50          60        60        60       60        60
Waste water rate (% of water
bill)         -        10       10        10        10        15
4.07      For 1979 MWSS is expected to meet the rate of return of 3% covenan-
ted in the Second Manila Water Supply Project.  MWSS is however unlikely to
meet the rate of return of 5% covenanted for 1980 (see paras. 4.09 and 4.11).
Starting with 1981, when MWSS is expected to commence preparing separate
Income Statements for water and sewerage (see para. 4.12), the projected
financial statements are the consolidation of projections prepared separately
for water supply and sewer operations. The projected revenues for water are
based on tariffs required to meet rates of return on net revalued fixed assets
of 5% in 1981 and 8% in 1982 and thereafter. Revenues from sewer charges
were projected as the minimum required to meet operation and maintenance



- 28 -
costs and depreciation or debt service, whichever is higher.  The tariffs
required to meet this criteria are discussed in para. 4.11.
4.08      During the period 1980-85 operating revenues are expected to quad-
ruple due to increases in tariffs, volume of water sold and wastewater
charges.  Based on the underlying assumptions NWSS is expected to have a
satisfactory financial performance.
Tariffs and Rate of Return
4.09      MWSS increased its water tariffs by about 60% in October 1978 to
an average of P 0.88 per cu m ($0.12). Two additional increases of
P 0.25 per cu m each ($0.03) were approved for implementation in January
1980 and January 1981. The January 1980 increase was postponed largely
because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures resulting from
recent oil price increases (see para. 4.11).
4.10      At present only those in the Central Service area who are
connected to the sewerage system pay a 50% sewer surcharge on the water bill
for waste water disposal. To meet the cost of the sewerage and sanitation
component the Government has approved in principle a waste water charge of
10% on the water bill on all those served by MWSS who consume more than 30
cu m of water per month, whether connected to the sewerage system or not.
Exempting those families consuming less than 30 cu m of water per month, is
expected to facilitate the implementation of the new charge since about 47%
of the consumers will not be affected. On the other hand, the foregone
revenue as a result of that exemption is not expected to exceed 6% of the
forecast revenues. The 10% charge will also apply to the Central Manila
Sewerage system increasing the surcharge from 50% to 60%. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MWSS would implement by January 1, 1981 a
waste water disposal charge of 10% on the water bill for those who consume
more than 30 cu m of water per month.
4.11      Financial projections of sewerage and sanitation operations show
that the wastewater disposal charge would be adequate to meet its operating
costs including provision for depreciation and debt service to the extent it
exceeds depreciation till 1985 when it would need to be raised to about 15%.
During negotiations MWSS agreed that starting with 1981, it would generate
adequate revenues from sewerage charges to produce a positive rate of return
on net revalued fixed assets in operation in the sewer system and to cover
operating and maintenance cost and depreciation or debt service, whichever
is higher. For water supply operations, as covenanted in Loan 1615 PH.
MWSS is required to set and maintain its water tariffs at such levels as
would be necessary to achieve a rate of return of 5% in 1980 and 1981 and 8%
in 1982 and thereafter on revalued net fixed assets related to its water
supply operations. During negotiations the Bank was informed that because
of (a) unforseen construction delays IIWSS was unlikely to produce for sale
the projected additional 100 million cubic meters of water in 1980 and (b)
postponement of the planned increase of 25 centavos per cubic meter in October



- 29 -
1979 it was unlikely that MWSS would achieve the 5% rate of return for that
year. It was therefore agreed that MWSS would achieve this rate of return
in 1981. However, a condition of effectiveness of the Sewerage and Sanitation
loan is an increase in water charges of 25 centavos per cubic meter.
4.12      To enable monitoring of these covenants, agreement was
obtained during negotiations that MWSS will set dp by January 1, 1981 an
accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, which will produce separate
Income Statements for its water and sewer operations.
4.13      In order to improve MWSS revenues in the future and thus help
reduce its reliance on external financing, MWSS agreed during negotiations
to study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the possibility
of creating new sources of revenues to reduce future dependency on Govern-
ment contributions. This will include, inter alia, evaluating the feasi-
bility of: (i) charging, both for water and sewerage, all those consumers
using ground water; (ii) assessing betterment taxes to those benefitting
from works such as sewerage and drainage; (iii) increasing the water connec-
tion fees for water to wealthier consumers and developers; and (iv) charging
industries according to their types of wastewater discharges. MWSS would
seek to carry out the study and implement the findings at the earliest
possible time. A report on this analysis would be presented for Bank comment
by March 1, 1981.
Ability to Pay
4.14      For a poor family of 8 members, typical of MIA, living in the
central service area and consuming about 15 cu m per month (which is an
adequate amount for meeting basic needs) the monthly water and sewer charge
would be P 9.60 ($1.30) under the present tariffs. Assuming this family
has an income of P 600 ($81) per month (less than half the poverty line) /1
the water and sewer bill will be about 1.6% of household income. For a
family with an income of P 900 ($122) per month (3/4 the poverty line) and
assuming a higher water consumption of 30 cu m per month, the water and
sewer charge would be about 2.4% of household income. These charges are
affordable. Families without sewer connections would have public toilet
facilities at a nominal charge.
4.15      Families living outside the Central Service Area will be served by
the combined sewerage system in the project. However, the wastewater charge
of 10% of the water bill will be paid only by those consuming more than 30
cu m of water per month. This represents a cross subsidy to families in the
lower income groups, estimated to be about 47% of the consumers in the
service area.
/1 The Bank has defined the absolute urban poverty line in the Philippines
as $250/capita/annum in 1977.



- 30 -
Duties and Taxes
4.16      A Presidential Decree (No. 1177 of 1977) requires that Government-
owned corporations shall pay income tax, customs duties and other taxes and
fees. Nevertheless, so far no taxes or duties have been levied on HWSS.
The Government has indicated that in any event those corporations originally
tax exempt like 1WSS, will be refunded the taxes so levied./1 Accordingly,
no taxes or duties were included in the project cost and financial
projections. This reflects the actual practice followed by MWSS. It was
confirmed during negotiations that there has been, up to date, no substantial
change in Government's position regarding duties and taxes.
Revaluation of Assets
4.17      MWSS has recently completed a revaluation of its fixed assets and
the resulting figures were incorporated in MWSS's books as of December 31,
1978. Since then assets have been adjusted yearly using the consumer price
index for Manila as produced by the Central Bank.
Debt Control
4.18      The present and forecast debt equity ratio and debt service
coverage are satisfactory throughout the projected period. However, to
safeguard against MWSS incurring additional heavy debt which may jeopardize
its financial position and involve unduly large debt service burden,
agreement should be obtained during negotiations that without the Bank's
consent HWSS would not incur any long-term debt unless its net income for the
12 months immediately preceding the incurrence of such debt is at least 1.5
times the maximum debt service in any future year. With a view to ensuring
that during the project construction period (1980-85), unduly-large funds
are not allocated by MWSS to capital works other than the Manila Water
Supply Project II and the Mlanila Sewerage and Sanitation Project, agreement
was reached that MWSS during that period would not undertake, without the
Bank's approval, any major capital works (estimated to cost $6 million or
more) and that expenditures for capital works other than the project would
not exceed $12 million in any fiscal year.
/1 Budget Circular No. 289, May 9, 1978.



- 31 -
Monitoring Indicators and Reports
4.19      The following are some of the key monitoring indicators for MWSS
during the period 1981-87:
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Rate of return - water /a        5.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Rate of return - sewer /a       22.0    8.8    5.6    5.2    6.1    5.9    5.5
Unaccounted for water (%)       45.0   42.0   36.0   31.0   28.0   25.0   25.0
Operating ratio (%)               62     50      49     50      50     50      51
Debt service coverage            4.6    8.7   11.6    2.9    2.8    2.4    1.9
Debt equity ratio              30:70  33:67  32:68  31:69  30:70  28:72  26:74
Current ratio                    1.5    2.2    2.3    1.7    2.1    1.5    1.3
/a On revalued net fixed assets.
These indicators reflect the assumptions incorporated in the financial
projections and depend largely on the effectiveness of the actions expected
to be taken by MWSS and the Government. The reporting requirements intro-
duced under the Second Manila Water Supply will be continued with the
necessary adjustment to enable separate monitoring of the rate of return for
water and sewer operations.
5. JUSTIFICATION
General
5.01      Sanitation in the Mlanila Metropolitan Area has been steadily
deteriorating since the early 1890s. Only 9% of the area is presently
served by conventional sanitary sewerage systems and the construction of
such systems is beyond the financial capability of the people. Providing
such conventional systems would not be justified, except in some of the more
densely populated areas. The project, therefore, offers a manageable and
sequential program for improving public health through an innovative
approach using a combination of methods which would evolve with the growth
of the Metropolitan Area.
Least Cost Solution
5.02      Alternative Solutions.  Planning and design criteria suited to
local conditions were selected for developing alternative solutions. Cost
curves were drawn based upon local information and experience elsewhere.



- 32 -
For some major components, these curves were compared against recent bids
received for the Second Manila Water Supply Project and were found to be
quite accurate. Economic life of pumping stations was assumed to be 30
years and of the sewers, 60 years. With this planning and cost criteria, 21
technically feasible alternatives were developed for comparison. The
alternatives ranged from full treatment and disposal to the bay (or to
inland waters) through lesser degrees of improvement in stages, including
the use of combined sewers. The alternatives studied are at Table 5.1;
costs are at Chart 20970 and the results of the present worth analysis using
8% discount rate are at Chart 20969. Alternative 11 offers the best and the
least cost solution; 8.9 million population would be served at a cost of P
1,250 ($169) per capita.
5.03      Ranking of Alternatives.  Thirteen of the 21 alternatives designed
to serve a population of 8.9 million were then subjectively graded by three
teams having mixed disciplines using a range of 1-10 points per factor for
(i) Environmental Effectiveness; (ii) Quality of life and Health Benefits;
(iii) Implementation Capability and Flexibility; (iv) Operational Effect-
iveness; and (v) Investment Impact. The result of the ranking is at Chart
20968. Alternative 11 comes out to be the optimum solution. In addition,
Alternatives 1, 3, 4 and 11 were tested with foreign exchange shadow prices
at 1.11 and unskilled labor at 0.5. Change of present worth per person
served in all cases was less than 2% and did not affect the ranking of
alternatives. Five of the top ranked alternatives were also analyzed with
the opportunity cost of capital assumed to be 10% and 12% and the relative
differences in the rankings were found to be substantially unchanged.
Alternative 11, which in the first phase proposes rehabilitation of the
central service area and combined sewers for areas with greatest health
hazards, is part of a program of works having a special emphasis on meeting
the needs of the urban poor and is clearly demonstrated to be the optimum
solution to meet project objectives.
Service to the Poor
5.04      There are no reliable estimates of the number of urban poor in
Manila. About 2 million reportedly live in some 415 blighted areas but such
depressed areas are scattered throughout the city either as squatters on
public land or as groups of one or two families intermingled with middle and
upper income neighbors, or beside commercial and industrial areas. The
methods of excreta disposal in these highly dense areas and absence of
drainage causes sewage and foul water to flow around houses and in the
streets mostly in the poorer areas of the city. This project aims at making
an immediate improvement in the living conditions of these poor people to
Class 2 standards (para 1.07) by providing a system of combined sewers in
1,412 ha and sanitary sewers in 640 ha of low income areas where sewage is
present in the streets or in adjacent ill-defined ditches (Class 4 and 3
areas). The number benefitting from this component of the project would be
about one million. In addition, MWSS would provide assistance for providing



- 33 -
appropriate excreta disposal facilities where upgrading programs for
blighted areas are currently being executed.
5.05      Taking only the 900,000 persons (1984) served by the Bank-financed
program for building combined sewers estimated at US$26 million, the unit cost
of providing the service is about US$30 per person, most of whom are the
urban poor. This is a very low cost in comparison with the high public
health benefits of the upgraded Class 2 service. The sewerage program
costing US$100 million would additionally provide benefits through improved
service (Class 1) to 780,000 persons living in the Central Service area at
US$130 per person and at the same time reduce environmental pollution of
neighboring shore waters.
Economic Evaluation
5.06      Most benefits resulting from this project are related to improved
health and environmental conditions and are not readily quantifiable.
Nevertheless, a computation of the IERR was made using the expected increases
in land values to measure some of the benefits received by those living in the
project construction area. In addition, the incremental revenue from the
wastewater charge was used to reflect the benefits received by those living
outside the areas where the combined sewers will be built but benefiting
from the general improvement in the health and living conditions of the
city. Using border prices, the IERR for the project is about 14%. Sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that the rate of return would drop to about 12%
and 10% if the investment cost increases by 10% and 20% respectively.
Similarly, the IERR would be about 11% and 8% in case the benefits drop by
10% and 20% respectively. Should the revenues from wastewater charges
collected from those not connected to the Central Manila System be excluded
from the benefits the IERR is 11%.
5.07      Since the opportunity cost of capital for the Philippines is esti-
mated to be between 10% and 15% and given the fact that most benefits from the
project are not quantifiable, the computed rate of return for the project is
adequate.
5.08      A similar analysis was done for the total program including the
next stage improvements. The resulting IERR is about 17.5% suggesting the
advisability of pursuing the program till its completion.
5.09      Detailed computations as well as the conversion factors used
are presented in Annex 1.
Long Run Marginal Cost and Wastewater Tariffs
5.10      The average incremental cost (AIC) method was used to compute the
long-run marginal cost. Using discount rates of 10%, 12% and 15%, the AIC
at border prices was estimated to be P 0.63, P 0.70 and P 0.82 per cu
m of waste water respectively, or P 0.75, P 0.83 and P 0.97 per cu m
of waste water at domestic prices after using a conversion factor for



- 34 -
consumption of 0.84.  The average wastewater tariff in 1981, deflated to
1980 pesos is P 0.25 per cu m of sewage. This is one third of the AIC
computed at 10% discount rate. This low average wastewater rate reflects
the fact that about 90% of the population receives limited service through a
combined sewer system and accordingly is charged only 10% of the water bill.
On the other hand, the tariff for conventional sanitary sewage service in
Central Manila area for 1981, (when the sewer surcharge is expected to be
increased to 60% of the water bill) will be equivalent to P 0.96 per cu m of
waste water deflated to 1980 pesos. This tariff is adequate when compared
with the estimated AIC at domestic prices even for the highest discount
rate. Detailed computations of the AIC are presented in Annex 1.
Employment
5.11      The additional annual construction jobs generated by the two
components of the project during the 1980-84 implementation period is
estimated to be 990; 3,700; 4,700; 1,300 and 1,400 in each year. An annual
average of 55 construction supervisory positions would be generated in this
period. Also, during the next five years MWSS will need to increase its
operational staff from the present level of 2,500 to 4,000 for the rapidly
expanding water supply, sanitation and sewerage programs.
Environmental Impact
5.12      Taken with the ongoing major water supply expansion program (Loan
1615-PH) and an upcoming solid wastes management project now being prepared
with Bank financing, the proposed sewerage and sanitation project would be
the second step in improving the environment of MWSS' Service area and
Metropolitan Manila. However, while the project will make an immediate
improvement to public health there is a danger that industrial waste water
discharged into the sanitary and combined sewer systems could adversely
affect water quality in Manila Bay. NPCC has set up a task force to study
methods for financing industry to construct, operate and maintain facilities
to remove toxic wastes from industrial effluents now polluting Manila Bay.
This will be a component of the upcoming solid wastes management study. In
the proposed project, MWSS would develop and implement industrial wastes
regulations in order to reduce or eliminate toxic discharges from industry
into rivers, esteros and Manila Bay (see para.  3.19).
5.13      The rivers and esteros in Metro-Manila show signs of gross
pollution at the present time.  The San Juan and Pasig Rivers are heavily
polluted in the lower reaches even in the wet months. During the dry
season the esteros are stagnant and often choked with garbage and solid
wastes. The project will not significantly improve this situation since the
combined sewers would continue to flow into the esteros but it will clean up
the poorer areas. When implemented, the solid wastes management project
referred to above would, together with tV,l sewerage project, gradually
improve water quality in the esteros and keep these problems within
manageable proportions thereby reducing the danger of the esteros becoming



- 35 -
completely filled over with solid wastes and aggravating flooding during the
wet season.
Project Risks
5.14      Since Loan 1615-PH for the Second bIanila Water Supply Project
became effective only on December 21, 1978, it is too early to make a
judgement on MWSS' performance. There has been substantial compliance with
covenants (which included a 60% water rate increase) but there have been
construction delays, mostly for reasons outside MWSS' control. Bids have
already been received for major pipelines and contracts are expected to be
awarded soon; however it is too early to determine if project completion
will be substantially affected by these circumstances.
5.15      This is the first major undertaking by HWSS in the field of sewerage
and sanitation. Because of the size and innovative nature of the sanitation
component a cautious approach is being taken by implementing only 13% of the
program for constructing combined sewers in areas with significant hazard to
public health at this time. This would allow the institutional arrangements
for project implementation to be tried out under field conditions and needed
adjustments to be made for completing this component. There is adequate
provision in the project for engineering consultants to advise MWSS in
designing and supervising of construction of the project's sewerage
component and no unusual risks are foreseen. MWSS has, in the last year,
taken important steps to strengthen its organization in the field and has
made significant changes in its management to improve planning, coordination
and staff training. Further improvements will be made during 1980-1983.
The Government has shown its support for MWSS' work by approving in 1978
annual increases of water tariffs and in 1979 the new wastewater charge to
be implemented in October of 1980. There is a strong enthusiasm among both
MWSS' leadership and staff responsible for project implementation for
tackling the sanitation problems of the metropolis and the Bank should
continue its financial participation and accept the moderate risk associated
with any institutional and management problems that may arise during project
implementation. Bank supervision missions will give special attention to
such problems so that timely steps would be taken to correct any situation
before it seriously affects the project. A Bank mission will visit Manila
in June 1980 to review institutional arrangements.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and
tMWSS on the following main points:
(a) acquisition of site at Tondo outfall (para. 1.23);
(b) coordination measures to ensure no duplication of sewerage
charges (para. 1.24);



- 36 -
(c) connections office and branch offices for sewerage (para. 2.08);
(d) annual review of financial requirements (para. 4.05);
(e) waste water disposal charge (para. 4.10);
(f) rates of return (para. 4.11); and
(g) new sources of revenues (para. 4.13).
6.02      Two conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan will be:
(a) MWSS and MMC defining responsibilities and procedures for the
construction of the combined sewers in the project (para. 3.17);
and
(b) increase in water tariffs of at least one quarter peso per cubic
meter (para. 4.11).
6.03      A condition of disbursement for the Dagupan and Pandacan sanitary
collection system (Part B(a) of the project description) will be the
execution of a loan agreement with ADB (para. 3.09).
6.04       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $63 million for
a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Table 3.1: SEWERAGE - ADB FINANCING
(Part A)
(E million)
Total costs                 1980                1981                1982                1983                1984                1985
Item                         Total   Local   Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
Submarine outfall            211.21   82.67  128.54        -          -        23.98   37.27       58.69   91.27       -        -          -        -
Tondo pump station            57.45   20.91   36.54        -          -         9.60   16.80       11.31   19.74       -        -          -        -          -        -
Pump station rehabili-
tation                      69.22   24.70   44.52        -          -       11.37   20.50        13.33   24.02       -        -          -        -          -        -
Collection system
rehabilitation             118.44   76.01   42.43        -                   -        -           -        -        25.08   13.99       25.08   13.99       25.85   14.45
Housing relocation             0.50    0.50    -           0.25       -         0.25    -            -                  -       -                                       -
Land                          15.01   15.01    -           -          -         2.22    -            3.55    -          4.26    -          2.28    -           2.70    -
Baseline Cost /a        471.83  219.80  252.03       0.25       -        47.42   74.57        86.88  135.03    29.34   13.99         27.36   13.99       28.55   14.45
Price contingencies /b       146.47   81.99   64.48        0.02       -        10.34   11.54       27.86   34.11    12.12    4.85          14.01    6.16      17.64    7.82
Total Sewerage          618.30  301.79  316.51       0.27       -        57.76   86.11       114.74  169.14    41.46   18.84         41.37   20.15       46.19   22.27
/a  Baseline cost includes - Construction supervision, engineering and administration.
- Physical contingencies estimated at 15% for the Tondo pumping station and 20% for other civil works.
/b Price contingencies - Local costs - 16% for 1980, 10% for 1981, 7% from 1982 to 1985.
- Foreign costs - 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% from 1983 to 1985.                                                             -



28
PROJECT COST ESTBiATES
Table 3.2: SAilITATION - BANK FINANCING
(Parts B, C 8 D)
Local costs                                            Foreign Costa
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    Subtotal    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    Subtotal    Total
------------------ I1illion pesos ---------------    ------------------- ilillion Pesos -----------------------
Civil Works
Combined Sewers
Class 4 - 730 ha                -   42.93    8.01         -        -      50.94         -   26.46    4.93          -       -       31.39      82.33
Class 3 - 638 ha                -        -   34.79        -        -       34.79        -        -   21.43         -       -       21.43      56.22
Pilot sanitation study         1.66        -        -       -        -        1.66      0.91       -        -        -       -        0.91       2.57
Wastewater laboratory             -        -    2.27        -        -        2.27         -       -        -        -       -           -       2.27
Dagupan sanitary sewers           -   20.67   20.68         -        -       41.35         -   10.45   10.43         -       -       20.88      62.23
Pandacan sanitary sewers          -   12.21   12.20         -        -       24.41         -    6.18    6.16         -       -       12.34      36.75
Service connections               -    6.37    6.37         -        -       12.74         -    3.22    3.21         -       -        6.43      19.17
House connections                 -    0.20    0.20    0.21          -        0.61         -    0.08    0.08    0.09         -        0.25       0.86
Total Civil Works           1.66   82.38   84.52    0.21          -     168.77      0.91   46.39   46.24    0.09          -       93.63    262.40
Equipnent
Septic tank maintenance        0.30    0.60    0.30         -        -        1.20      4.40    8.80    4.40         -       -       17.60      18.80
Laboratory                        -        -        -       -        -           -         -       -    1.37         -       -        1.37       1.37
Sewer mnaintenance                -    0.08    0.42    0.79    1.44           2.73         -    0.20    0.89    0.79    3.18          5.06       7.79
Outfall monitoring                -        -        -       -        -           -         -    0.06    0.70    0.70    0.70          2.16       2.16
Bay monitoring                    -        -        -       -        -           -         -    0.09    1.05    1.05    1.05          3.24       3.24
Total Equipment             0.30    0.68    0.72    0.79    1.44           3.93     4.40    9.15    8.41    2.54    4.93          29.43      33.36
Total Civil Works
& Equipment               1.96   83.06   85.24    1.00    1.44        172.70      5.31   55.54   54.65    2.63    4.93         123.06    295.76
Hionitoring Programs
lianila Bay                        -    0.06    0.91    0.90    0.90          2.77         -       -        -        -        -           -      2.79
Tondo Outfall                     -    0.05    0.61    0.60    0.60           1.86         -       -        -        -       -           -       1.86
Health                         0.21        -    0.34        -    0.30         0.85         -       -        -        -       -           -       0.85
Total Programs              0.21    0.11    1.86    1.50    1.80          5.48       _          -        -       -        -           -       5.43
Detailed Design & Training
water supply                      -   21.87   12.01         -        -       33.78     0.13   28.03   33.47    4.23          -       65.86      99.64
Sewerage & sanitation             -    4.27   13.66    5.69    3.48         27.10         -    6.49   11.37   13.84        8.8       40.50      67.60
Overseas training                 -        -       -        -        -           -        -    1.48    1.32    0.57          -        3.37       3.37
Total Design & Training        -   26.04   25.67    5.69    3.48         60.88      0.13   36.00   46.16   18.64        8.8      109.73    170.61
Engineering 6 Administration
Design                         0.10    1.47    2.86    1.61    1.08           7.12     0.29    0.52    0.89    0.96    1.02           3.68      10.80
Construction supervision       0.10    2.64    4.07    1.33    0.77           8.91     0.40    1.28    1.53    0.82    0.87           4.90      13.81
Administration                 0.05    2.24    3.60    1.12    0.54           7.56        -        -        -        -       -           -       7.56
Total Eng. & Admin.         0.25    6.36   10.53    4.06    2.39         23.59      0.69    1.80    2.42    1.78    1.89           8,58      32.17
Baseline Cost Estimate           2.42  115.57  123.30   12.25    9.11         262.65     6.13   93.34  103.23   23.05   15.62         241.37    504.02
Contingencies
Physical                       0.34   13.12   13.33    0.69    0.66         28.14      0.56    9.22    8.95    0.43    0.83          19.99      48.13
Price                          0.22   28.06   43.81    5.35    5.00         82.44      0.35   15.86   28.34    8.12    7.24          59.91     142.35
Total Contingencies         0.56   41.18   57.14    6.04    5.66        110.58      0.91   25.08   37.29    8.55    8.07          79.90    190.48
Total Cost - Sanitation   2.98  156.75  180.44   18.29   14.77          373.23      7.04  118.42  140.52   31.60   23.69         321.27    694.50
(Parts B, C and D)
Note:  Physical contingencies estimated at 20% of base cost on major civil works.
No physical contingencies provided for equipment monitoring prograss and training components.
Physical contingency of 10% provided for detailed design, engineering and administration.
Price contingencies estimated at 16% for 1980, 10% fo 1981, and 7% thereafter for local costs;
foreign costs escalated at 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% thereafter on
baseline cost plus physical contingencies.



39
Table 3.3:  POPULATION SERVED BY PROJECT AND LONG-TERM SANITATION PROGRAM
-------------------------  Sanitary sewers  ---------------------------------------   ------ Combined sewers -------
Central service area system               Dagupan & Pandacan system          Population       Class 4 Upgrading - Project
Year   Population  Connected  Connected          Population  Connected  Connected         served                              Population
('000)        (Z)     population          ('000)        (1)     population    ('000)         Area   Population        served
('000)                                    ('000)                     (ha)      per ha         ('000)
1980        828          60         497              514            -           -           497            -           -            _
1981        839          62         520              526            -           -           520         573          832          477
1982        849          65         552              538           10          54           606          730         870          635
1983        860          68         585              550           20         110           695          730         908          663
1984        871          70         610              562           30         169           779         730          946          691
1985        882          71         626              574           40         230           856         730          984          718
1986        892          72         642              585           50         293           935         730          994          726
1987        903          73         659              597           60         358         1,017         730       1,005           734
1988        914          74         676              609           65         396         1,072         730       1,015           741
1989        924          75         693              621           70         435         1,128         730       1,026           749
1990        935          76         711              633           76         481         1,192         730       1,036           756
1991        946          77         728              645           77         497         1,225         730       1,047           764
1992        957          78         746              657           78         528         1,274         730       1,057           772
1993        968          79         765              669           79         529         1,294         730       1,068           780
1994        979          80         783              681           80         545         1,328         730       1,078           787
1995        990          81         802              693           81         561         1,363         730       1,089           795
1996      1,000          82         820              704           82         577         1,397         730       1,100           803
1997      1,011          83         839              716           83         594         1,433         730       1,110           810
1998      1,022          84         858               728          84         611         1,469         730       1,121           818
1999      1,033          85         878               740          85         629         1,507         730       1,131           826
2000      1,044          85         887               752          85         639         1,526          730       1,142          834
--------------------------- Combined sewers ---------------------------
Class 3 Upgrading - Project              Class 3 Upgrading - Program                  Total population served
Year                             Population                                Population
Area    Population    served             Area    Population    served                    Project      Program
(ha)      per ha        ('000)           (ha)       per ha        (O000)                ------- ('000) ------
1980          -         265           -                -            -           -                       497         497
1981          -         277           -                 -           -           -                       997         997
1982        682         290         198              682          290         198                     1,439       1,439
1983        682         302         206            1,620          302         489                     1,573       1,847
1984        682         315         215            2,558          315         806                     1,685       2,275
1985        682         327         223            3,497          327       1,144                     1,797       2,718
1986        682         342         223            4,435          342       1,517                     1,894       3,178
1987        682         357         244            5,220          357       1,864                     1,995       3,615
1988        682         372         253            5,220          372       1,942                     2,066       3,755
1989        682         387         264            5,220          387      2,020                      2,141       3,897
1990        682         402         274            5,220         402       2,098                      2,222       4,046
1991        682         417         284            5,220          417       2,177                     2,273       4,166
1992        682         432         295            5,220         432       2,255                      2,344       4,304
1993        682         447         305            5,220         447       2,333                      2,379       4,407
1994        682         462         315            5,220          462       2,412                     2,430       4,527
1995        682         478         326            5,220          478      2,495                      2,484       4,653
1996        682         493         336            5,220         493        2,573                     2,536       4,773
1997        682         507         346            5,220         507       2,646                      2,589       4,889
1998        682         522         356            5,220          522      2,725                      2,643       5,012
1999        682         538         367            5,220          538       2,808                     2,700       5,051
2000        682         553         377            5,220          553       2,887                     2,737       5,247



40
Table 3.4:  ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMIENT
Quarterly          Cumulative disbursements
IBRD fiscal year             disbursement              at end of quarter
and quarter ending            ---------------- US$ million ---------------
1981
December 31, 1980               0.14                         0.14
March 31, 1981                  0.28                        0.42
June 30, 1981                   0.44                        0.86
1982
September 30, 1981              2.76                        3.62
December 31, 1981               4.33                        7.95
March 31, 1982                  6.74                       14.69
June 30, 1982                   8.91                       23.60
1983
September 30, 1982              2.82                       26.42
December 31, 1982               5.39                       31.81
March 31, 1983                  7.97                       39.78
June 30, 1983                  10.54                       50.32
1984
September 30, 1983              0.89                       51.21
December 31, 1983               1.53                       52.74
March 31, 1984                  2.17                       54.91
June 30, 1984                   2.80                       57.71
1985
September 30, 1984              0.73                       58.44
December 31, 1984               1.21                       59.65
March 31, 1985                  1.44                       61.09
June 30, 1985                   1.91                       63.00



41
Table 3.5:  CONTRACT SCHEDULE FOR COMBINED SEWERS (1980-84)
Class 4   Class 3   Total
Total    areas       areas    no. of  No. of contracts in each year
(ha)      (ha)      (ha)ft contracts 1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
---Project---/2  --Stage---
1.  Manila & Quezon City District Offices (Central Sector)
Manila City (Suboffice)        246        30        215       10       1      1     2      3      3
Quezon City                    280         -        280       11       -     -      3      4     4
Mandaluyong                    278       120        158       11       1      2     3      3      2
Marikina                        78        10         68        3       1      1     1      -      -
Pasig                          265        90        175       10       1     2      2      3     2
San Juan                        19         -         19        1       -     -      1      -     -
Subtotal               1,165       250        915       46       4      6    12    13    11
2. Caloocan City District Office (North Sector)
Caloocan City                  378       100        278       15       1     2      4      4     4
Malabon                        137         -        137        5       -      -     1      2      2
Navotas                        247       110        137       10       1      2     3      2      2
Valenzuela                      65        30         35        3       -      1     1      1     -
Subtotal                 827       240        587       33       2      5     9      9      8
3.  Pasay City District Office (South Sector)
Pasay City                     158        70         88        6       1      1     2      1      1
Las Pinas                      663        50        613       27       -      2     7      9     9
Makati                          14         -         14        1       -      -     I      -     -
Paranaque                      187        40        147        8       1      1     2      2     2
Pateros                         85         -         85        3       -     -      1      1     1
Taguig                         123         -        123        5       -     -      1      2     2
Subtotal               1,230       160      1,070       50       2      4    14    15    15
4. Areas Outside Metro-Manila (Office of Special Projects)
Cainta                          11         -         11        1       -     -      1      -     -
San Mateo                       60        60          -        2       1     1      -      -     -
Taytay                          45        20         25        2       1      1     -      -     -
Subtotal                 116        80         36        5       2      2     1      -      -
Grand total            3,338       730      2,608      134      10    17    36    37    34
Assumptions:  1.  Each contract would be about P 3 million.
2. Length of drains: 10 km in 25 ha.
3. Construction period five months.
L   Only 50% of Class 3 areas (2,608 ha) are shown in this schedule.  The remaining 2,608 ha would
be built in 1985-88.
/2 Proposed project covers period up to 1982, and will upgrade 730 ha Class 4 aand 682 ha of
Class 3 areas.



-MWSS CONSOIIDATED                                   INCOME STATEMENT                                MILL.PHIL$
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__-------------------------------------------------
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983       1984      1985       1986       1987
POPULATIGN-THOUSAND           6099.00   6408.00   6733.00   7074.00   7561.00   7838.00   8125.00   8423.00   8796.00   9148.00
POPULATION SERVED- WATEP(Q00)3255.73   3866.69   4587.84   5104.65   5661.46   6225.86   6340.26   6700.67   6972.97   7319.67
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS 000)498.00    738.00    828.00    617.40    368.40    388.20    406.80    406.80    479.40    666.00
% POPULATION WITH  WATER        53.38      60.34     68.14      72.16     74.88      79.43     78.03      79.55      79.27     80.01
CONNECTIONS- WATER(COO)        268.51    305.93    375.38    465.03    555.61    612.65    625.68    658.68    681.80    695.11
SEWER CONNECTIONS-THOUSAND,    59.12       60.09     61.04      62.88     64.38      67.72     71.06      74.40      77.74     81.08
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3        254.29    254.73    313.99    425.00    519.00    593.00    635.00    666.00    696.00    701.00
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH        78.92      69.39     69.71      76.16     77.84      80.66     84.57      84.26      85.07     84.04
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        45.87      46.19     44.00      45.00     42.00      36.00     31.00      28.00      25.00     25.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3            469.78    473.39    560.70    772.73    894.83    926.56    920.29    925.00    928.00    934.67
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD      395.32    335.42    334.84    414.74    433.03    407.74    397.68    378.21    364.62    349.85
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3      0.56       0.88      1.02       1.21      1.66       1.85       1.95      2.02       2.08      2.22
WATER   REVENUES              142.71    224.16    321.00    514.47    862.92   1098.89   1235.90   1346.32   1447.76   1554.52
SEWER REVENUES                  18.32      28.13     32.27      86.30    133.90    159.80    179.40    248.30    307.90    341.40
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE        8.10       8.70      9.73      11.79     13.88      15.28      15.76     16.71      17.46     18.04
TOTAL REVENUES                 169.13   260.99    363.00    612.56   1010.70   1273.97   1431.06   1611.33   1773.12   1913.96
WAGES- WATER                    29.04      39.11     56.52      75.62     92.11    103.41    112.38    126.82    138.56    152.49
CHEMICALS                       18.39      21.31     30.04      46.78     58.77      65.12     69.20      74.43      79.90     86.10
POWER                           18.78      21.76     30.67      47.77     60.02      66.50     70.67      76.01      81.59     87.93
MATERIALS                        3.39       5.99     12.39      17.18     19.04      28.51     37.31      40.76      44.67     48.70
OTHER COST   WATER              11.50      15.08     22.07      30.92     40.93      52.55     64.67      76.11      89.59    105.44
DIRECT COSTS-WATER              81.10    103.25    151.69    218.27    270.88    316.09    354.23    394.13    434.30    480.67
SEWER WAGES                      9.40      10.41     12.80      14.95     16.48      18.62     20.65      23.10      25.29     27.53
SEWER MATERIALS                  1.10       1.10      6.10       7.10      8.60       9.20      9.90      10.00      10.00     10.00
SEPTIC TANK MAINT.               0.00       0.00      3.28       7.42      8.05       8.62      9.22       9.87      10.56     11.30
OTHER COSTS SEWER                2.50       3.28      4.80       6.72      8.90      11.42      14.06     16.55      19.48     22.92
DIRECT COSTS SEWERAGE            13.00     14.79     26.98      36.20     42.03      47.85     53.83      59.52      65.33     71.75
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS              94.10    118.04    178.67    254.46    312.91    363.95    408.06    453.65    499.63    552.42
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS             7.06      12.62     17.66      30.66     50.14      62.99     70.82      79.72      87.74     94.81
NON-CASH EXPENSES                 1.93      1.93      1.93       1.93       1.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL COSTS                    103.09    132.59    198.26    287.05    364.05    426.94    478.88    533.37    587.37    647.23
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      66.04    128.40    164.74    325.50    646.65    847.03    952.18   1077.96   1185.75   1266.73
DEPRECIATION                    30.77      52.57     68.65      92.25    145.87    203.97    235.54    269.81    304.93    334.86
========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========             T:
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          35.27      75.83     96.09    233.26    500.78    643.06    716.63    808.15    880.82    931.88
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.           6.81       5.42     23.46      33.21     32.84      30.09    183.65    206.55    278.28    336.06          H
NON OPER.REVENUES (+)           25.00      28.61     18.46       8.95      3.91       4.90      5.90       7.50       8.55      9.70
NET SURPLUS (+)                 53.46      99.02     91.09    209.00    471.84    617.87    538.88    609.10    611.09    605.51



-MWSS CONSOLIDATED                                    FLOW OF FUNDS                      MILL.PHIL$
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__------------------------------------------------
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986       1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      66.04    128.40    164.74    325.50    646.65    847.03    952.18   1077.96   1185.75   1266.73
NON-OPER.REVENUES (NET)         25.00      28.61     18.46       8.95      3.91       4.90      5.90       7.50       8.55      9.70
NON-CASH EXPENSES                1.93       1.93      1.93       1.93      1.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION       92.97    158.94    185.13    336.38    651.56    851.93    958.08   1085.46   1194.3C   1276.43
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00      11.30      7.26      35.67     23.93      39.88     28.39      19.33      17.89      10.86
EQUITY INCREASE                112.26    100.00    250.00    230.00    145.00        80.00    136.87      56.36    155.00    160.00
IBRD LOAN                        0.00      0.00       8.38    181.30    211.12       38.84     22.86       0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER FOREIGN LOANS             28.92    256.88    501.42    619.89    445.95    496.09    539.20    524.42    516.37    435.69
NATIONAL LOANS                   0.00       0.00    140.00    535.00    270.00       70.00    122.81      85.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL LOANS                     28.92    256.88    649.80   1336.19    927.07    604.93    684.87    609.42    516.37    435.69
TOTAL SOURCES                  234.13    527.12   1092.19   1938.25   1747.56   1576.74   1808.21   1770.57   1883.56   1882.98
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00       0.00     10.06    418.85    601.88    107.45       96.65      68.47      0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST             5.21      23.63     49.14    121.69    221.80    303.43    197.91    213.63    169.25    131.78
MANILA WATER II                 50.95    355.51   1047.41   1437.98    397.64        44.81      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00          I
OTHER WORKS-WATER               24.73      53.91     91.87       5.80    358.52    678.34   1023.22    771.95    994.41    801.89
LA.)
TOTAL INVESTMENT                80.89    433.05   1198.47   1990.29   1583.33   1301.69   1548.14   1235.84   1418.66   1195.06
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION        6.73       6.73     30.46      39.71     42.08      43.51     93.66    125.88    138.95    241.76
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     46.25      48.43      74.24     77.74
SHORT TERM LOANS AMORTIZ.        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               6.73       6.74     30.46      39.71     42.08      43.51    139.91    174.31    213.19    319.50
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        6.81       5.42     23.46      33.21     32.84      30.09    183.65    206.55    278.28    336.06
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       6.81       5.42     23.46      33.21     32.84      30.09    183.65    206.55    278.28    336.06
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              13.54      12.15     53.92      72.92     74.92      73.60    323.56    380.86    491.46    655.56
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL       138.76      83.84   -158.27   -123.03      91.24    202.45    -63.50    153.88    -26.56        32.37
OTHER ASSETS                    -1.93      -1.93     -1.93      -1.93     -1.93      -1.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             234.13    527.12   1092.19   1938.25   1747.56   1576.74   1808.21   1770.57   1883.56   1882.98
IR:



-MWSS CONSOLIDATED                                    BALANCE SHEET                                 MILL.PHIL$
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.          2933.85   3691.03   4661.01   5929.69   9345.10  10940.66  12151.63  13992.99  15327.15  16762.60
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION        553.65    728.02    913.15   1096.71   1319.36   1615.69   1964.33   2371.64   2842.59   3376.42
NET FIXED ASSETS               2380.20   2963.01   3747.86   4832.98   8025.74   9324.97  10187.31  11621.35  12484.56  13386.18
WORK IN PROGRESS                261.12    582.44   1401.49   2589.20   1172.20   1532.49   2635.50   2880.59   3944.60   4777.10
CASH AND BANKS                   24.87     35.91      40.60      83.14     71.35      73.04      85.00     86.16      75.72      81.26
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              42.36     67.86      94.38    159.29    262.88    331.37    372.27    419.37    461.73    498.55
SHORT TERM INV.                 322.29    373.36    233.02      48.80       0.00      95.00      0.00      75.00      30.00       0.00
INVENTARIES                      22.65     14.20      24.25     35.53      43.21      51.41     58.21      62.59      67.28      72.40
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            412.17    491.33    392.25    326.76    377.44    550.82    515.48    643.12    634.73    652.21
OTHER ASSETS                     15.45      13.52     11.59       9.66      7.73       6.73       6.73      6.73       6.73       6.73
LOANS TO LOCAL WW,                5.02      5.02       5.02       5.02      5.02       5.02       5.02      5.02       5.02       5.02
OTHER ASSETS                     33.97     33.97      33.97      33.97     33.97      33.97      33.97     33.97      33.97      33.97
TOTAL ASSETS                   3106.00   4085.43   5586.39   7789.87   9613.37  11445.28  13375.29  15182.06  17100.89  18852.49
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                         602.07    702.07    952.07   1182.07   1327.07   1407.07   1543.94   1600.30   1755.30   1915.30
CONTRIBUTIONS                     0.00     11.30      18.56     54.23      78.16    118.04    146.43    165.76    183.65    194.51
REVALUATION SURPLUS           2071.79   2595.43   3069.51   3444.30   3782.61   4344.41   4997.16   5710.27   6523.76   7397.68
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             221.33    320.36    411.45    620.45   1092.29   1710.16   2249.04   2858.14   3469.23   4074.75
TOTAL EQUITY                  2895.19   3629.16   4451.59   5301.05   6280.13   7579.68   8936.57  10334.47  11931.95  13582.24
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)             146.18    372.60    982.68   2276.80   3160.36   3625.37   4135.94   4532.17   4729.04   4776.39
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 29.71     32.75      91.95    149.49    108.92       79.86    108.02      81.78      99.95      85.06
TRUST FUNDS                      16.06     16.06      16.06      16.06     16.06      16.06      16.06     16.06      16.06      16.06
DEFERRED CREDITS                  9.14      1.42       1.42       1.42      1.42       1.42       1.42      1.42       1.42       1.42
CURRENT MATURITIES                6.73     30.46      39.71     42.08      43.51    139.91    174.31    213.19    319.50    388.34
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        61.64     80.70    149.14    209.05    169.91    237.25    299.81    312.45    436.93    490.88
TOTAL LIABILITIES               210.81    456.27   1134.80   2488.82   3333.25   3865.60   4438.72   4847.59   5168.95   5270.25
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES      3106.00   4085.43   5586.39   7789.87   9613.37  11445.28  13375.29  15182.06  17100.89 .18852.49
I0



-MWSS SEWER ONLY                                  INCOME STATEMENT                              WILL. P$
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------------------------------
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
=C===5=     ==== = -= = =* =S. f==========  ==,=======S.   = ...  = === = ========,==================
SEWER REVENUES                 18.32    28.13-    32.27    86.30    133.90    159.80    179.40   248.30    307.90    341.40
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE      0.14      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.16
TOTAL REVENUES                 18.46    28.29     32.43    86.46    134.06    159.96    179.56   248.46    308.06    341.56
SEWER WAGES                    9.40     10.41     12.80     14.95     16.48     18.62     20.65     23.10     25.29     27.53
SEWER MATERIALS                 1.10     1.10      6.10      7.10      8.60      9.20      9.90     10.00     10.00     10.00
SEPTIC TANK MAINT.             0.00      0.00      3.28      7.42      8.05      8.62      9.22      9.87     10.56     11.30
SEWER OTHER COSTS              2.50      3.28      4.80      6.72      8.90     11.42     14.06     16.55     19.48     22.92
DE CTSEE3   14.78---    26.98---    36.20---    42.03---    47.86---    53.83---    59.52---  6___.32_    71.75---
DIRECT coSTS SEWERAGE          13.00    14.78    26.98    36.20    42.03    47.86         53.83     59.52     65.32     71.75
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS             i3.00    14.78    26.98    36.20    42.03        47.86     53.83    59.52      65.32     7i.75
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS           0.86      1.41      1.61      4.31      6.70      7.99      8.97     12.42     15.40     17.07
TOTAL COSTS                    13.86    16.19     28.59    40.51      48.72     55.85     62.80     71-93     80.72     88.82
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION     4.60     12.10      3.84    45.94      85.34    104.11    116.76    176.53    227.34    252.74
DEPRECIATION                   2.74      3.27      4.11      8.55     22.79     36.30     42.79     57.96     75.97     88.45
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST         1.86      8.83     -0.27    37.39    62.55       67.81     73.97    118.57    151.37    164.28
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     24.64    107.35    111.32
NET SURPLUS (+)                 1.86     8.83     -0.27    37.39    62.55    67.81        73.97     93.93     44.03     52.96
D



-MWSS WATER ONLY                                  INCOME STATEMENT                              MILL.PHIL$
--------------------------------------------------------__-----------------------------------------------____________---________
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3      254.29   254.73    313.99    425.00   519.00   593.00   635.00    666.00    696.00    701.00
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH      78.92    69.39    69.71       76.16    77.84    80.66       84.57     84.26     85.07     84.04
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER      45.87     46.19     44.00     45.00    42.00    36.00    31.00        28.00     25.00     25.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3          469.78   473.39    560.70    772.73   894.83    926.56    920.29    925.00    928.00    934.67
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD    395.32    335.42    334.84    414.74    433.03    407.74    397.68    378.21    364.62    349.85
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3    0.56      0.88      1.02      1.21      1.66      1.85      1.95      2.02      2.08      2.22
WATER   REVENUES             142.71    224.16    321.00    514.47   862.96   1098.89   1235.90   1346.32   1447.76   1554.52
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE      7.96      8.54      9.57     11.63    13.72    15.12    15.60        16.55     17.30     17.88
TOTAL REVENUES                150.67   232.70   330.57   526.10    876.68   1114.01   1251.50   1362.87   1465.06   1572.40
WAGES- WATER                  29.04    39.11      56.52     75.62    92.11    103.41    112.38    126.82    138.56    152.49
CHEMICALS                      18.39    21.31     30.04     46.78    58.77      65.12    69.20      74.43     79.90     86.10
POWER                          18.78    21.76     30.67     47.77    60.02    66.50    70.67        76.01     81.59     87.93
MATERIALS                      3.39      5.99     12.39     17.18     19.04    28.51      37.31     40.76     44.67     48.70
OTHER COST.  WATER             11.50    15.08    22.07      30.92    40.93      52.55    64.67      76.11     89.59    105.44
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - --- -  _- - - -- _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
DIRECT COSTS-WATER            81.10    103.25    151.69    218.27    270.88    316.09    354.23    394.13    434.30    480.67
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS           6.04     11.21     16.05     26.35    43.44      55.00    61.85      67.30     72.34     77.74
NON-CASH EXPENSES               1.93     1.93      1.93      1.93      1.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
=======  =======  ===============  =======   ===== ==r ===== =====    ========
TOTAL COSTS                   89.07    116.39    169.67    246.55    315.32    371.09    416.08    461.43    506.64    558.41
________  --------  -------_- _ -- -- _-  -_--____   --------  --------  -------  -- -- - ____ ___ ___ ___
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION    61.60    116.31    160.90    279.56   561.36    742.93   835.42    901.44    958.42   1013.99
DEPRECIATION                  28.04    49.34    64.63       83.77    123.15    167.81    192.85    211.96    229.05    246.50
======   =====  ===== = =======  =r=======  ========  ========  ========  ====== =====
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST        33.56    66.97      96.27    195.79   438.21    575.11    642.57    689.48    729.37    767.49
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.         6.81      5.42     23.46     33.21     32.84     30.09    183.65    181.91    170.93    224.74
NON OPER.REVENUES (+)         25.00    28.61      18.46      8.95      3.91      4.90      5.90      7.50      8.55      9.70         3
== ====   === 5=    == s-r   == = =    -== ===   == = ==                                                 ===r===== ==== =====
NET SURPLUS (+)               51.75    90.17      91.27    171.53   409.28    549.92    464.82    515.07    566.99    552.45
m
C\
,~~~~~~~~~a



PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987
A.  Tariffs
Average water tariffs (P per cu m)            0.56      0.88      1.02      1.21      1.66     1.85      1.95      2.02      2.08      2.22
Sewer charge (% of water bill)                50.0      50.0      50.0      60.0     60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0
Wastewater charge (% of water bill)               -        -         -      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      15.0      20.0      20.0
B.  Financial Performance
Consolidated rate of return (%)  /a            1.6       3.0       3.0       5.7       8.1       7.7      7.6       7.7       7.5       7.4
Rate of return-water operation -.                 -        -         -       5.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Rate of return-sewer operation /a                 -        -         -      22.0       8.8      5.6       5.2       6.1       5.9       5.5
Operating ratio /b                               79       71        73        62        50        49       50        50        50        51
Contribution to construction (%)              40.0      25.7      10.9      16.6      35.5     52.7      46.6      50.4      55.0      49.2
Receivables in Billings (no. of days)          258       203       120       110       105       100       95        90        90        90
Rate base - consolidated                   2,177.6  2,528.7  3,183.6  4,084.5  6,185.8  8,383.8  9,439.8 10,561.5 11,687.7 12,549.4
Rate base - water                                 -         -        -  3,915.8  5,477.6  7,188.9  8,032.0  8,618.5  9,177.0  9,593.6
Rate base - sewer                                 -        -               171.5    710.0  1,207.9  1,410.9  1,946.1  2,573.4  2,958.2
C.  Debt
Debt service coverage                           6.8     13.1       3.4       4.6       8.7      11.6      2.9       2.8       2.4       1.9
Debt:equity ratio                             5:95      9:91    18.82    30.70    33:67    32:68    31:69    30:70    28:72    26:74
D.  Liquidity
Net working capital (million P)              350.5    410.6    243.1    117.8    207.9    314.5    217.4    334.0    203.9    170.9
Current ratio                                  6.7       4.1       2.3       1.5       2.2       2.3       1.7      2.1       1.5       1.3
/a  On net revalues fixed assets in operation.
A Including depreciation charges.



48
Table 5.1: LIST OF ALTERNATIVES STUDIED
Alternative                                                 Population served
no.                        Description                          millions
1   Complete disposal to Manila Bay - no treatment                  8.9
2   Limited secondary inland treatment (32% of area)                 "
3   One-half secondary inland treatment (51% of area)                "
4   Substantial secondary inland treatment (76% of area)             "
5   Full inland treatment (95% of area) excluding central
service area                                                  II
6   Eliminate north outfall from Alt. 3
7   Bacoor outfall substituted for Southern Outfall in Alt.
No. 3
8   Cavite outfall substituted for Southern Outfall in
Alt. No. 3
9   Combination with combined system for San Juan Basin in
Alt. No. 3
10   Combination with extensive combined systems for San Juan,
Marikina and Laguna Basins in Alt. No. 3
11   Combination with extensive combined systems as in Alt. 10
but with disposal to bay.
12   Combination with phased disposal to bay.  /a                    7.4
13   Combination with phased limited inland treatment in second
phase.                                                        i
14   Combination - some combined, and some "as is"                   4.8
15   Combination - some combined (2nd phase) and some "as is"   4.1
16   Combination - with "as is: fo three inland basins               3.2
17   Ocean disposal with major portion of inland areas "as is:  3.1
18   Primary treatment of the outfall discharge - 1st phase          8.9
19   Primary treatment of the outfall discharge - 2nd phase           "
20   Delay disposal to bay                                           5.0
21   Delay inland treatment
/a Alternatives 12 to 17, 20 and 21 presented for illustration since
population served differs from other alternatives.



4+9
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The methodology described in P.U. Report No. GAS 14 was followed
for the economic evaluation of the project. Accordingly, border prices
were used instead of the traditional domestic prices.
2.        For purposes of assessing the adequacy of the sewer surcharge, the
AIC in border prices was converted into domestic prices, using the
conversion factor for consumption for the Philippines.
3.        The following are the conversion factors used in the evaluation:
Standard conversion factor :                        .820
Conversion factor for consumption:                  .840
Conversion factor for construction:                 .827
Conversion factor for capital goods:                .865
Conversion factor for labor:                        .695
Conversion factor for electricity, gas & water:  .802
4.        Incremental rate of return for the project is 14.35%.  Should the
revenues from wastewater charges collected from those not connected to the
Central Manila System be excluded from the benefits the IERR is 10.9%.
5.        The proposed project includes only 13% of the combined sewers in
the Master Plan. The IERR for the complete program of combined sewers in
the Master Plan is 17.45%. Detailed computations are in project file.



PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Investment and Operating Costs
(P million of 1980)
Capital investment                                 Operating and maintenance costs le
Domestic construction  Total           Materials             Electricity         Domestic labor       Total
Domestic      Border    border  Domestic   Border    Domestic   Border    Domestic   Border    border
Imports   prices      prices /a  prices   prices   prices /b   prices   prices /c   prices   prices /d  prices
1980          6.7       3.0           2.5       9.2       5.8         5.0        0.9        0.7         5.0        3.5        9.2
1981         154.7    163.7         135.4    290.1        7.6         6.6        1.2        0.9         9.8        6.8       14.3
1982         214.1    206.5         170.8    384.9       10.9         9.4        1.5        1.2        11.3        7.8       18.4
1983          27.1     37.9          31.3      58.4      13.5        11.7        1.6        1.3        13.0        9.0       22.0
1984          30.4     37.1          30.7      61.1      16.2        14.0        1.7        1.4        14.4       10.0       25.4
1985          14.4     27.8          23.0      37.4      17.8        15.4        1.7        1.4        15.9       11.0       27.8
1986-2014      -        -             -         -        17.8        15.4        1.7        1.4        15.9       11.0       27.8
/a  Construction conversion factor (0.827) was used.
/b  Capital goods conversion factor (0.865) was used.
/c  Electricity, gas and water conversion factor (0.802) was used.
/d  Converslon factor for labor of 0.695 was used.
/e  Incremental O&M cost for MWSS and MMC.
0
n4
0



51
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Project Benefits
(P million of 1980)
Land value increases               Incremental revenues
Domestic      Border               Domestic       Border
prices      prices /a             prices        prices /b
1980                                               0
1981                                              33.4           28.0
1982           135.3        110.9                 64.1           53.8
1983            198.1       162.4                 76.6           64.3
1984                                              81.8           68.7
1985-2014                                        112.7           94.6
/a Standard conversion factor (0.820) was used.
/b Conversion factor for consunption was used (0.840) since most
benefits are expected to accrue to residential areas.



52
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Land Value Increases
1.        Information gathered by Urban Projects in relation to the Manila
Infrastructure and Utilities Program (MMINUTE)1 indicates that an average
increase in land value of P 45 per sq m results from the provision of drain-
age service.  For our purposes an increase of P 45 per sq m was assumed
for houses facing the streets where the drains are built. These are estimated
to be about 50% of the total.  It was assumed that the remaining houses will
benefit only by half the increase in land value (P 22.50 per sq m). The
resulting average price increase is P 33.75 per sq m.
2.        From the total hectares included in this stage of the program
(740 Class 4 and 682 Class 3) 30% representing streets and public areas
was excluded.
3.        Increase in value of land in the vicinity of the project area was
not included in the benefits computation.
/1 Third Urban Development Project.



53
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Incremental Benefits
(P million)
Sewer Revenues             Incremental Revenues
Current      Constant         Domestic       Border
prices        prices           prices        prices
(1980)
1980          33.6          33.6
1981          86.8          67.0             33.4          28.0
1982         132.2          97.7             64.1          53.8
1983         157.8         110.2             76.6          64.3
1984         176.6         115.4             81.8          68.7
1985-2014      244.5         146.3            112.7          94.6



54
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost Calculation for Sewerage
Total incremental costs
(Border prices - P million of 1980                 Incremental
Sanitary Sewer    Combined Sewer         Total cost                Waste
Capital           Capital              Capital           Water      water
invest-           invest-              invest-           sold    flows /a
Year      ment      O&M      ment        O&M     ment      O&M      (million cu m)
1980       0.2      8.0       8.9        1.1      9.1      9.1       -         -
1981     181.6    12.6    108.4          1.5    290.0    14.1       68.0      47.6
1982     274.7    15.1    110.2          3.0    384.9    18.1    162.0       113.4
1983      38.5    17.2    102.8         4.4    141.3    21.6    236.0        165.2
1984      36.7    19.0    107.4         5.9    144.1    24.9    278.0        194.6
1985      37.4    20.0       83.0        7.5    120.4    27.5    309.0       216.3
1986       -       20.0      83.0        7.5     83.0    27.5    339.0       237.3
1987       -       20.0      83.0        7.5     83.0    27.5    344.0       240.8
1988-
2014     -       20.0                 7.5               27.5    344.0      240.8
/a  Assuming that 70% of the water sold reaches the sewer system.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Comparison of the Average Incremental Cost for Sewerage and Tariffs
AIC at border prices        AIC at domestic prices
------------------ (In pesos) -------------------
At 10% discount rate             0.63 per cu m                      0.75
At 12% discount rate             0.70 per cu m                      0.83
At 15% discount rate             0.82 per cu m                      0.97
1. Tariff in the Central Manila Area (Conventional Sewerage System)
Projected water rate in 1981 = P 1.24 per cu m of water.
Projected sewerage surcharge on the water bill: 60%.
Equivalent sewer rate:  60% of P 1.24 = P 0.74 per cu m of water.
Since it is estimated that only 70% of the water
reaches the sewer:  P 0.74 = $1.06 per cu m of sewer
0.70
Deflated to 1980 prices:  P 0.96 per cu m of sewer.
2. Average Wastewater Revenue (AWR)
AWR = Total sewer revenues
Total wastewater flow
Projected AWR in 1981 =           P 86.6 million
297.5 million cu m of wastewater /a
= P 0.29 per cu m of wastewater
Deflated to prices of 1980: P 0.25 per cu m of wastewater
/a It was assumed that 70% of the water sold reaches the sewer.



56
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Assumptions in Financial Forecasts
Income Statement
1.        Water Revenues.  Revenues reflect the tariffs required to earn
rates of return on net revalued assets of 5% in 1980 and 1981 and 8% in 1982
and thereafter for the projected volume of water produced and the expected
reductions in unaccounted-for water.
2.        Sewer Revenues.  It was assumed that the sewer charge in the Central
Manila Area would be increased from 50% of the water bill to 60% in 1981 and
that it would be kept at that level during the projection period. The waste
water charge, to be paid by those with water connection but without sewer
connection, was assumed to be implemented in 1981 as 10% of the water bill.
This rate was approved in principle by Government. No increases were
projected until 1985 when a substantial part of the combined sewer program
is expected to be completed. In that year there are several options open to
MWSS, such as to increase the charge or eliminate the subsidy to families
consuming less than 30 cu m per month. For projection purposes it was
assumed that the charge would be increased to 15% in 1985 and to 20% in
1986.  In 1987, to avoid further increases, it was assumed that some of
the consumers exempt would be required to pay. According to the tariff study
prepared by the consultants, about 6% of MWSS's revenue in 1978 comes from
customers consuming less than 30 cu m per month. This percentage was used
to adjust the projected revenues from wastewater charges. It was assumed
that this percentage would gradually increase to reach 20% of the revenues
from waste water charges in 1986.
3.        Other Operating Revenues.  Include revenues from maintenance
service and miscellaneous income.  Both are expected to grow according to
the number of connections.
4.        Personnel Cost - Water and Sewer.  Separate projections were made
for each according to manpower requirements to meet the expected level of
operations. In addition yearly adjustments were made for inflation./L
5.        Chemicals.  The projections were made according to the expected
volume of production. Prices were escalated yearly.
1 All operating costs were adjusted for inflation using the following
rates:  1980, 16%; 1981, 10%; 1982 and thereafter, 7%.



57
ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Power.  Projection follows the future requirement c. the system
and the general price increase was used for escalation.
7.        Materials.  For projection purposes cost of materials was
projected to increase gradually up to one half of 1% of total fixed assets
in 1981.
8.        Provision for Bad Debts.  Was projected at 5% of the operating
revenues.
9.        Depreciation.  On the basis of straight-line depreciation, 2.5%
was applied to gross revalued fixed assets after excluding land.
10.       Nonoperating Income.  Represent mainly interest on investment in
short-term securities.
11.       Non-Cash Expenses.  Represent amortization of organizational
expenditures.
Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
12.       Other Contributions.  Represent consumer contribution from prospec-
tive new water consumers towards the costs of providing service connections
and water meter. To help the poor families in getting water service connec-
tions no such charge will be made for 1/2" connections. Similarly, house
connections for sewer will be financed to low income families with repayment
up to five years.
13.       Equity Increase.  Represents the expected Government payment to MWSS
capital.
14.       IBRD Loan:  The proposed Bank loan of $59.5 million for the project
was assumed with a repayment period of 20 years including 5 years of grace,
an interest rate of 8.25% and a commitment fee of 3/4 of 1%.
15.       Other Foreign Loans:  In addition, the following foreign loans were
included in the projections:



58
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Total
repayment   Grace
Amount    period      period   Interest
Source        (US$ mln)  ------ years -----   rate p.a.         Purpose
ADB              42.0        25          5          8.2      Sewerage
IBRD             85.0        20          5          7.9      II Manila Water
ADB              49.0        25          5          7.7      II Manila Water
PHILBANK          2.6         5          1          8.5      Study-Manila Water III
IBRD              4.0        20          5          8.2     Study-Manila Sewer
IBRD              0.9        20          5          8.5     Tondo Outfall
ADB              51.3        25          5          7.5     Manila Water
Unidentified   299.0         20          5          8.0     Manila Water III
Unidentified    60.0         20          5          8.2      Sanitation
16.       National Loans:  A loan to help finance the project was assumed.
The projected amount required is P 227.2 million (US$30.6 million).
Several alternatives for borrowing these funds are under consideration by
Government. One would be to float bonds, backed by the Government. Another
would be a direct loan from Government. Similarly, interest on bonds may or
may not be taxable. For projection purposes the conditions agreed for the
Government loan to help finance the II Manila Water Supply project were
used, i.e., 20 years, 5 years grace period and 12% interest.
17. Investment in Project. according to estimates in Project Cost
Tables 3.1 and 3.2.
18. Manila Water II: investment program according to schedule reviewed by
consultants in June 1979 and escalated with the
inflation rates used for the sewerage project.
19. Other works - water: includes rough estimate of the future water supply
project now under study and expected to start in 1982.
In addition, works for the normal expansion of the
system are included and works under the Third Urban
Development Project.
20. Other works-sewerage: includes mainly investment in the second stage of
the Sanitation Program.
21. Working capital: it has been assumed that the investment in short-term
securities will be reduced as required to help finance
the investment program.



59
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Balance Sheet
22.       Fixed Assets in Operations.  Assets were revalued and the new values
incorporated in books for 1978 financial statements. COA has approved the
revaluation. The Consumer Price Index in Mletro-Manila of the Central Bank
was used. About one third of the total assets is land and land rights. For
projection purposes assets have been revalued using the local inflation rates
used for escalating project costs.
23.       Short Term Investment:  represent excess cash funds invested in
short-term government securities, mainly PNB bills and Treasury bills. It
was assumed that securities would be sold as required to finance capital
investment.



6o
ANNEX 3
page 1
Selected Docunents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies in the Sector
1- Philippines - Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study Report (2
volumes) WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program. January 1977.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Sewerage and Sanitation
1. SAR Manila Water Supply Project II- Report No. 1978-PH
2. (i) Master Plan for a Sewerage System for the Manila Metropolitan
Area - December 1969
(ii) Ditto Supplementary Report - December 1970
3. Metro Manila Sewerage Project - Review and Evaluation Report - June
1978
4. Master Plan for Sewerage and Sanitation for Metropolitan Manila -
Volumes I, II and III
Final Draft - June 1979
5. Infiltration/Inflow Evaluation Manual - September 1978
6.  Wastewater Laboratory Report - September 1978
7. Status Report for Design of Initial Central Outfall
8.  Computer Print Out of Alternative Studies (example only)
9. Excerpts from NPCC Rules and Regulation
10. Rules and Regulations for Subdivisions
11. Cost Estimates Pandacan Collection System
12.  1ydraulic Calculations Pandacan Collection System
13. Cost Pstimates Dagupan Collection System
14. Hydraulic Calculations Dagupan Collection System
15. Engineering Report Pandacan Collection System
16. Engineering Report Dagupan Collection System



61
ANNEX 3
page 2
17. Report on proposed takeover of Ayala System by MWSS
18.  Commissioner of Audits Implementation Guide
19. Executive Order No. 518 dated January 29, 1979 on budget preparation
Water Supply Design
1. Pre-feasibility Study, JTC-PICOREM - 1977
2.  Memorandum Order No. 569, August 1976 for Marikina Study
3.; Contracts for Engineering Services
(a) Marikina River Multi-Purpose Project Feasibility Study -
March 21, 1978
(b) Water Resources for Metro Manila, Addendum to Contract of Item a.
4. Reports on Marikina River Multi-Purpose Project, Feasibility Study
(a) Review and Evaluation Report by 7LW/RE and Associates (two
volumes), 1978
(b) Appendices on Hydropower, Hydrology and Simulation Model
5. Reports on Water Resources for Metro Manila Study
(a) Project Identification Phase (two volumes)
6. Terms of Reference for Marikina River Multi-Purpose Project - Feasi-
bility Study
7.  Scope of Work for Water Resources for Metro Manila Study
C. Papers Prepared by MWSS
1. Project Cost Estimates
2. Computer Printout for Collections
3. Report on Asset Revaluation
4. Training Program 'or 1979 and 1980



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
D. Papers Prepared by Bank Staff
1. Financial Projections
2. Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
3. Calculation of Average Incremental Cost
4. Review of Proposals to Rehabilitate the Central Sewer System
5. Health Monitoring Program
6. Estimate of Consulting Services
E. Other Papers
1. Institutional Arrangements.



PHI LIPPINES
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
|BOARD OF TURSTEES|
INTERNALDIT DIVISION |GENERAL MANAGER  _                                            - _                OFFICE
CORPORATE SERVICES           CORPORATE PLANNING
-LEGAL ASSISTANCE              -FINANCIAL PLANNING
-EDP                           - MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
-ORGANIZATION METHODS EINFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING
--HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT _INTERDEPARTMENTAL
S PUBLIC RELATIONS               COORDINATION
-INDUSTRIAL SAFETY
ENGINEERING &        ENGINEERINGI                                         COMMERCIAL                                  N FINANCE ANDN
SPECIAL PROJET        CONSULTANTS          OPERATIONS                    CUSTOMERS' SEVCSAMNTRIO
-WATER SUPPLY PROJECT 11                 -WATER SOURCES AND                - METER READING AND BILLING              -PERSONNEL ADMIN.
- WATER SUPPLY PROJECT III                 TREATMENT                       - COMPLAINTS                             -RECORDS
-SEWERAGE PROJECTS                       -WATER DISTRIBUTION               - INVESTIGATIONS                         -ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
-SANITATION PROJECTS                     - SYSTEM MAINTENANCE              -CENSUS                                  -ACCOUNTING
- PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE         - SEWERAGE AND SANITATION         - COLLECTIONS                            -TREA.t iRY
-PROC' -:EMENT
World Bank - 20879    O\



4



PHILIPPINES
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
ENGINEERING AND SPECIAL PROJECTS OFFICE
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGERIm m me MANAGEMENT COORDINATION
GENERAL MANAGER                                   BOR
COA AUDITOR'S OFFICE
I
e               ~~~~~ASSISTANT GENERAL
PROJECTAUDITOR                            MANAGER FOR    *              - _NOTECHNICAL SECRETARIAT
SPECIAL PROJECTS
_j~          = M IIIIIIII4 DISTRICT OFFICES
WATER SUPPLY                 SEWERAGE              |     SANITATION             BUINS MANAGEMN
-TECHNICAL STAFF           -TECHNICAL STAFF            - TECHNICAL STAFF           -ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
-CONSULTANTS                -CONSULTANTS                -CONSULTANTS                --ACCOUNTING
- SOLID WASTE              - HEALTH MONITORING          - PROCUREMENT
- OUTFALL MONITORING       - PILOT PROJECT              - FINANCE
- COORDINATION NPCC                                     -TREASURY
World Bank - 20880   ON



IA                                                                                                                                                                                                          I 



COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATING COSTS
12
11583   11.58
56      566
4659)  (489)        11 06
492                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.86
4524
10       000                                                 (4583)                                                                                                                  9 86         (4.39)
5.68    9.73   9567
9 2
8597    5 01
397  ~~~~~~~~~844
4.00
9        400
3433
6.79                (4.44)
0                                           305                              31      312
o  0                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(3.34)     (37 2    32    323)       303292
6  3395                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(3.59)  (417)  (3.93  6 00
D                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,48
F-                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 06
F4         200 
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
134~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 
2        100
(73)                                                                              9  
ALT #1  ALT  3  ALT #9     AL  #7          ALT 49            LT #11         ALT#13          ALT #15          ALT #17         ALT4 94ALT #2
ALT         AL2 . ALT    ALT    ALT    ALT. ALT    ALT    ALT  A10                   ALT  A12         ALT #14         ALT #1L          ALT7    AL8    ALT #20         2
NOTE.(2  PERCENT OF CONSTRUCTION COST
Thirteen Alternatives (Alteratives 1 to 1 1 18 and 19) are for 8.9 million populations; remaining eight Alternatives are for
3.1 to 5.0 million populations and are, therefore, not directly comparable with the thirteen. Details are given in Table 5.1.                                                            W.r(d B-k -20570



I
I                   f



COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES
PRESENT WORTH AND COST PER CAPITA
2 50
I+55.7)
20 6
2.40
(+46.3)
20.0236V
(+430)                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.3
100  .                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~104 2,20
(+39.0)
2 17    2.10
(+32 3)  (+3209)..
17.5  2.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~0615 1
170  2.2                                                      (+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32.3)2(
16.5 (27.4).A
1507
10.0       2.0                                                                               0
14.2    X
132~~~~~                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~ 1207 10
12 5     xi                          17
LI  (00)                                            ) 235~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
+10 0       .16                                                                                                                                  152
1 35~~~~~~~~::                13
75  14                                                                                                                 2        )                                       167)
X,                        ~~~~~~~6
40
ALT.#1         ALT #2          ALT,.#0        ALT. #7        ALT #9         ALT.#11I       ALT #13         AL-T #15       ALT,#17        ALT #19         ALT. #21
ALT. #2       ALT. #4         ALT #6         ALT #6         ALT #10         ALT. #12       ALT. #14       ALT #16        ALT. #10         ALT #20
NOTE- # PERCENT DEVIATION FROM PRESENT
WORTH ALT. NO (,COST PER CAPITA
Thirteen Alternatives (Alteratives 1 to I11, 18 and 1 9) are for 8.9 million populations; remaining eight Alternatives are for
3.1 to 5.0 million populationS and are, therefore, not directly comparable with the thirteen. Details are giVen in Table 5.1.                                                W-rld B.nk - 20060



I



RANKING OF ALTERNATIVES
EFFECTIVENESS * * ~~~~~~~~~~~......                             .......        .... .;;.-. -   .;; .--...;:..  .-.-..-;.-.-. -    ....           .....
F ACTOR                                  ALTERNATIVE NO.    1::    5               9::   1 0      11   1121::13           1 4    :15:   1 6   ::17::   1 8   :19
_                   _ -..                       ...... .
EFFECTI         S.                                                                 '' .".'.                                    .                '. .. ., . .   .   . . . . .
2 | QUALITY OF LIFE                       _                     10.0:  10.0   ::9 1:: 8.5   >  8.3:6                                     4.9 r ...........................................  ......
IM| CAPABLMENTATION;FLEXIB Y                                  [50.[i| 7.6  t-47.08-@[ 7.8       65.  | 7.5      8       7.8     70I.  7.3  ..85-.   5.0 .53
CAPABILITY & FLEXIBILTY                     ___             ____                             -                      ..... -~~~~~~~~.....  .....
OERATIONMNAL                                                      80.32         .58      59.81           56     .4   83969212                                    2
3:   8.  [::::.:::  7.   :.::7.8:.:  7.5   :::::7.5:::::     4::::       6  1.9 9:::::1 .9     ::::::
EFFECTIVENESS                                                            3889.
| [ .......... '.1 [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .                                    -   3  . . . . . -.   .    . . . . . . ........  'l[
5                                                                   68VESTMENT  t-]   1 7  50  62   87  u  5-9  5- S-4-3  82    873    83    10             106  |1-9 |
TOTA L    :: .38.1::    314         349       362       394       344       337       368       377        350       344       287       294
RANKING    [2              11    [- 7 .3        5         1     3i    8       10        4               93  6          8        13        12
World Bank-E20968 



I                         I
I



MANILA
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ADB FINANCING                            1980                   1981                  1982                   1983                   1984                   1985
PART A
Item
Submarine Outfall                                                    --              ---                    -
Tondo Pump Station
Pump Station Rehabilitation
Collection System Rehabilitation                              _                =    =                                        - =    =                     - =
Construction Supervision
BANK FINANCING
PART B
Sanitary Sewers                                          _    =                            -    -    -    - _ _
Combined Sewers                                    _    _    _    _    _
House Connections                                        _    _            _     _    _    _    _     _    _    _            _
Septic Tank Maintenance                                  =    _    _    =
Pilot Project                               .            _          =    _    =    =                  =                =           =    =    =            =    =    =
Outfall Monitoring                                       - =        - =                                     -    -                 -                -    -           -
Health Monitoring
Design-                                                  -
Construction Supervision
PART C
Sewerage Design                                                                 --                                                     
Water Supply Design                                                 _                                 -     -___-
Overseas Training                                        - _             -                       -    - _                     -_-              _
PART D
Manila Bay Monitoring           l                                                                                                                               3
World Bank - 20976



I



MANILA                                                       69
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
MMINUTE - PROGRESS* ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
METROPOLITAN
MINISTRY OF      WATERWORKS
PUBLIC WORKS     AND SEWERAGE
j     SYSTEM
METROPOLITAN       MINISTRY OF                               METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS
MANILA COMMISSION    PUBLIC WORKS    EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE          AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
PROGRAM                     j             OFFICE
PROGRAM DIRECTOR
.EXECUTIVE STAFF
.ADMINISTRATIVE AND
FINANCE STAFF
.FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
STAFFP
.OPERATIONS SYSTEMS
.DEVELOPMENT STAFF
PROJECT MANAGERS
X   . . _ .      ~MMINUTE ||PROGRESS         _      
TECHNICAL STAFF                                                    TECHNICAL STAFF
ENGINEERING AND                                                    . ENGINEERING AND
PLAN DEVELOPMENT                                                   PLAN DEVELOPMENT
STAFF                                                              STA F F
- PLANS AND PROGRAMS                                               -PLANS AND PROGRAMS
- DESIGNS AND ESTIMATES                                            - DESIGNS AND ESTIMATES
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND MONITORING STAFF                                               AND MONITORING STAFF
- CONSTRUCTION MANAGE-
MAINTENANCE AND                                                      MENT
EQUIPMENT MANAGE-                                                  -FISCAL MONITORING
MENT STAFF
4 DISTRINEE OFFICES P
WITH:
4 DISTRICT MANAGERS
4 DEPUTY DISTRICT MANAGERS
MMINUTE                                   ~~~~~~~~~~PROGRESS
PROJECTS                                  ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTS
TE AMS                                    ~~~~~~~~~~TEAMS
*PROGRESS -PROGRAM FOR REMOVING SEWAGE FROM STREETS
MMINUTE - METFRO-MANILA INFRASTRUTURE UTILITIES AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
NOTE: CONSULTANTS OF MMINUTE & PROGRESS WILL EACH REPORT TO
RESPECTIVE PROJECT MANAGERS BUT WILL CONSULT WITH EACH OTHER.
World Bank -21342



A                  I  



-A  --jI   C. -
.,. j                            ~~~~/ A.  .    
7/ 
N           EZN/ T
A
FH I L I P P                      rN E
X   0     X    .                    \ i                            . j,,  f  g~~~~~~I ~ No~Ac
N.
METROPOLITAN MANILA
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
SEWERAGE MASTER PLAN                                                                                                                  ____
,     W5 c-/ /-   4                                     .    ;     \     7    -          ~         _    
= ~ .rjl/                LAS      P hIAS                        t                                 ____I_____I__t__-._
S~~~ ~ ~   ~ .g               I        ..                                       '            =' .> .C!                     -Q
MAy51 C-- rs Ser,ere A,ee ,obhtbaI ,.\                                        j             i F(                    C">         
___A,ola Syse,em                                                        N e9119Zn  sr  |        .;=           
D.... .s E,TItenson                      '                           ,1
-   "o,,de,,e, E,,e,,,,                                                  -        JMJFT .L A i==. d 
Styse z            \                 '                     l \  t g  ; S          .t      ; S                   Oll~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  Iogen  
F   ag . A I9                                                                                       X ==i=g                  4.SonFernsndoj
.  'WIeeb,-eAnSs,,e-  :e!eX eg/   Ie ..                                                                - )        
Mer,- O,, La9      S                                             \                                 L                     I S       4O,        g    
--e --                                                                                                         'I -N 3  B-
_                                                                         .v                                                                                   K >  6



0
w



lt    / <  t /    \  t                    1/l                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINE5S
Lpiu- 3o de                    A                    METROPOLITAN   MANILA
\ALA  ON         D  i ~  tX r i c  t          3                                            SEWERAGE AND SANITATION  PROJECT
I N  zc    C   n     t  1,CENTRAL SERVICE AREA REHABILITATION  AND  EXTENSION
C A L O  C   N               i/                                         IIIZ MWSS Ce-mr Sea,  A-
C I T Y                                                                      D/ _ Oggpp- area enters on
7\             0 t    >t            \ 0                       r///                     X:                  | _   i Pondacan area Exfe,eie-
gAVOTOS   \   (   X   )   \.  zy  X  T-n,<] F,r.shrl; ZZTnrhre
EKst nq punnrp nE slai,Ofn
New Tonuo pump ng stat an and 3ub-,arine outfu,
E,ise e sewet mr r  ns
Proposed saeer ma ns
Reeds
R~,- P ers
NVunicrpO bo.nderies
| t/  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P  AS () \ \ \ ~~~ / e                                                                                                        PASI
BAt',,           D rfag                                   5, ,\ W -\       \         \rt   
b 1 Z bf Z O ~,*  _                 S   <\\   r D
S b   rE    z ote ;'A Iuuu9                                                                                    A N        J    A
LU NZONA
-i4'  ,- 4n  *t Bm _- f    ' If  tre spnSokErcoStSS#<rdGue  PARANAQJE)                               _ I\                                        _ _P
8N, ,,tnAr- Y '~ )ld/6cteels2s \I__ 4OEEr   i
>S,,QDCt u  >   <tw.tGf?v.ter.dbn22nf   11 ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ A                    A 
l?f    AccP.e;olsr adfG....1_ ML G



I



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                       -   -  -  ----                           --    -  -  -   ---    -   -     
i     .C!               1.     .
-I                                       !     \        / _
-17 ~ ~ ~ - 
|   0                             0;                  0 ~ ~~~~~~~/ .,}K
)                                                                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL
\  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -I                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~
\' *.;,AX ; NI 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TGI
I,-~~ ~~~~ / '                                                            -               
~~~  \&~~~~ f                                    ,    ,,- /- -                       0,   . ,;.,,,              ,,      ,
2  W'PARANAQUE         ._           f       g    KLgTw            
._~PHILIPPINES \:.|  
METROPOLITAN MANILA
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
PROJECT                    .=,                                 -              I... 
SANITATION UPGRADING PROGRAM             \                                                                                 L L Z ON
A,-  hIdo             ,o.                                                  MUNTINLUPA
IIIIIII_IICla- 3, Itj  - 5niS,90,- b.-wd\                                                                          .  
(?-s 3,    (I -        . - .ohd
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
=w   ZonolIm     I a Po  a,-m -IdP) l.-e\
._      IMMINUTE) -, . a .....                   .
B dLISS st-                                             .
- _.D,frsc baand :ae                                        \       /      
w  P lvers SIrEoms 8/ t T \pk 8^*|b j~~~~~~~~~,~ANJLA,-0' 
6-d."                                                     &                                      :7 G  
-R-d, ~         ~          ~          ~          foAa                                          Z0    o_



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



SOUTHEAST TRAD         E                                                                                 .    -                             ,'OsJe       
\< By ~~~~~~~~~~~PAMPANGA rlIYER  INFLOW   .- ,( )  
A.,q M. JI JA  o~ SepOtNw                  a  r/1    y J . \,
,   J                                 Southeos~~~~~~~S- t T,odFA    100 80 86 178                          /    ty            
;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~S  h.    M -                          ..                   444 737 038 75rl3 4  H15 3 - d_e7_ 214                     r            
iSo                                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
ts-   h  //  }                        -            B  a  >C9 Jl q                                  .                 '!  t                                  l                  ist~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-   A CFI
O        UTh EAST  MONTSOO eS                                                                                                                                                                       CE    I
Pebooony lo Manor r  (8~c      )|e b M O . M9 U U2A9St c o e e
PAMPANGA RcCsI riF l<;.               Y     AVERASE WINDVELOCITY-  *  ,AG
THEAST ~   ~     ~      NE MONSOH WATE                                                                                                                 ERU INFLOW   I4 .' , (> 
Cubicmetersrwirseconi  meTers per second  /    r           7toa              7biS  -- P
~~~~~~~~~So,,SIre,ee Monoeoo                                  444 727 lea02 88f   1i,  8  70                           /)- 
ASNorthec  Monsoon 1s  36r214 12_ >   /                                                                                                         5       1 19 
PIIPNS -- .                                                              '  '\         .    ...                   .. -    ; 2  -?t),                       1 
Jongapo-          0~ ~ ~~~~~~aonEuo
AND SAINwITATMONSPROJETi                                                                 cHEm>t ERslN5L3 /)    .        r  /    ,KPCII
June               la Beaymee                                                      , 7       = I   Mr)n  urAu  e   .  D  DcJn              \I
'   WiND ROSES AND FRESH WATER FLUX                                             OrTheasTMpnsoo                   Os
M NL BYivers and streams                                                          /                        \1    3                                        QrLtS  g   Asorr, 
MlE    0        10qee 20                     30n 40                         .T8                                                   u- I
NORTHEAST MONSON          JNET FREASH  RIVERRIFLUO
rF.6 M., A,, M., J- J,I, A~~ S  14eIn                                                                 e prA,  e_es J_D.S,0,  le  n  o
I h   .pSr ,h ,                                    ....  ..                                      , f                       oslerodes h       3  75  12
D0 Kh                                                                                                          Malolo                   Soll.ee Moeoo                      41pa  149 212 250a5hdrs  oX!n   d..m    
M TROPQOLefITA w0huM ANILAo  SP oe EpairWEld9R*AGEt                                                                                                                           Nr}tAiA              -      m
le                                                                      111,1 1T,1-                 6    a                           'lorr4- Morsoo                                   276 278 2  205
Rivers       170stre s                                                        0                                                                          ' 00  V
Metro-Manila boundary ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ eer pr ecere                         I~e
WIOM NDS  ROSE    2                  ~        416
MILES 6  10        20            3,6            4~~~~~'       I63                                    ,,1y         '~       e                         -- 
SPA                                           5"e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  6972090                       0    I                                        K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA   '



