Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  CoPy
Report No. P-2729-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
February 29, 1980
This deument bas  testcted distribution and may be used by eipients only In the perfonmnce of
their offcial duties. Its contents maY not othenrise be disclosed wltoumt World Bank auhorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 3, 1980)
Currency Unit          =          Peso (P) (100 centavos)
P 1.00                 =          US$0.135
US$1.00                =          P 7.40
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm     =  mil lime ter                 =  0.04 inches
cm     =  centimeter                   =  0.39 inches
m      =  meter                        =  3.28 feet
km     =  kilometer                    =  0.62 miles
sq km  =  square kilometer             =  0.39 square miles
ha     =  hectare                      =  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres
cu m   =  cubic meter                  =  264 US gallons
cu m/s =  cubic meters per second    =  22.8 million US gallons per day
1      =  liter                        =  0.26 gallons
lcd    =  liters per capita per day  =  0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
Mld    =  megaliters per day           =  0.26 million US gallons per day
mg/l   =  milligrams per liter         =  parts per million
m/s    =  meters per second            =  3.28 feet per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      - Asian Development Bank
LUJUA    - Local Water Utilities Administration
MM4A     - Metropolitan Manila Area
MMC      - Metropolitan Manila Commission
IMNUTE  - Metro-Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program
MWSS     - Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
MPW      - Mlinistry of Public Works
NPCC     - National Pollution Control Commission
PROGRESS - Program  for Removing Sewage from  the Streets
UP       - University of the Philippines
ZIP      - Zonal Improvement Program
MlWSS' FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    The Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
and the National Pollution Control Commission (NPCC)
Amount:            $63 million equivalent
Terms:             The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with interest at 8.25% p.a.
Relending Terms:  The Government would relend $62.5 million of the proceeds
to MWSS on the same terms and conditions as those of the
Bank loan. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by MWSS. The Government would allocate the balance of $0.5
million of the loan proceeds to NPCC to finance the foreign
exchange component of the monitoring of water quality in
Manila Bay.
Project            The project aims to improve environmental sanitation in
Description:    the poor and densely populated areas of Metropolitan
Manila and develop an institutional strategy for the imple-
mentation of similar projects in the future. The project
provides for (a) rehabilitation of the sewer system in the
central area of Manila; (b) construction of a sewerage
collection system in about 2,050 ha of low-income and
blighted areas; (c) staff training and technical assistance;
and (d) water quality monitoring. The project should make
immediate improvements in the living conditions of about
900,000 urban poor, of a total estimated 3 million popula-
tion served by the project. The main risk of the project is
that this is the first major sewerage and sanitation
undertaking by MWSS. Because of its innovative nature, a
cautious approach is being taken by implementing only 13% of
the combined sewers construction program in areas of signif-
icant hazard to public health, in order to give time for the
institutional strategy to be tested. Technical and
management assistance and training provided under the
proposed project and under a recent water supply project
(Loan 1615-PH) would help to minimize this risk.
Th document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                                    Local  Foreign  Total
Cost: /I                                                  ----- $ million -----
Part A
Rehabilitation of existing sewer system  40.8    42.8    83.6
Part B
Sewerage collection system                   22.3    12.5    34.8
Pilot project and laboratory                  1.4      3.7      5.1
Subtotal Part B                         23.7    16.2    39.9
Part C
Technical assistance and training             8.2    14.8    23.0
for future water supply and sewerage
projects
Part D
Manila Bay monitoring                         0.4      0.4      0.8
Engineering and administration
(Parts B and D)                               3.2      1.2      4.4
Contingencies (Parts B to D)                    14.9    10.8    25.7
Subtotal Parts B to D                   50.4    43.4    95.8
Total Projlect Cost                     91.2    86.2   177.4
Financing Plan:                                                MWSS and
Bank       ADB        Government      Total
--------------- $ million --------------
Part A               -         42.0          41.6           83.6
Parts B to D        63.0         -           30.8           93.8
Total         63.0       42.0           72.4         177.4
Estimated                                                 IBRD FY
Disbursements:                       1981       1982      1983      1984     1985
… -------------- $ million --------------
Annual              0.9      22.7      26.7       7.4       5.3
Cumulative          0.9     23.6      50.3      57.7      63.0
/I Excludes duties and taxes as these are reimbursable.



- iii -
Rate of Return:   Minimum of 11%, using only increases in land values in the
project area as a proxy for benefits. In addition,
substantial benefits would accrue to the population of
low-income areas in the form of better health and
productivity.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2742-PH dated March 3, 1980






REPORT AND RECOMM4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on    roposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $63 iaillion to help
finance a Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project.  The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% p.a.  The
Government would relend $62.5 million to the Metropolitan Waterworks and
Sewerage System (MWSS) on the same terms as the Bank loan, and would allocate
the balance of $0.5 million to the National Pollution Control Commission to
finance the foreign exchange component of the monitoring of water quality in
Manila Bay. The foreign exchange risk on funds relent to MWSS would be borne
by MWSS. The Asian Development Bank is considering providing parallel
financing of $42.0 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines -
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under Sec M79-822 dated November 16,
1979,
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growtih was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced.  The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Medinu-scale Irrigation Project distributed
under R80-30, and scheduled for Board presentation on March 13, 1980.



public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



- 3 -
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With the completion of
large! irrigation projects now tnder implementation, continued rice self-
sufficiency  -,ears assured for the 1980s.  On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled, commercial logging have
led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls
for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading
of Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new
hill cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amorti-
zation payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating 18% of
the rice and corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to pearmit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978.  However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provi,de employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



-5-
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1972 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates. Further reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries. A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued efforts in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



-6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative im-
porting in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports (coconut
products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade in 1979
were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased price of
petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD countries
which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The improvement in
1979 of the terms of trade is expected to be reversed in 1980. The combined
effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an estimated
$1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982.  The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D. C. in December 1979.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
zation (paras. 15-18). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms
of trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assis-
tance have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer can



- 7 -
be achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, or through
nonproject lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of January 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 63 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,970.9
million and six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC
investments totalled $93.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt
service is about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%,
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of January 31, 1980, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastruc-
ture, which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group
lending. In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irriga-
tion system to increase food production and to credit programs to support
foodgrain production and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree
farming production. Support has also been provided for integrated rural
development projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided
large amounts of assistance in developing power and transportation to
provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors. Substantial
improvement in basic infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many
years of past neglect due to low levels of public expenditure. In the
industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on strengthening the
capacity of public and private development finance institutions with
increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small and medium
industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estimates.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, distributed
under R80-30 and scheduled for Board presentation on March 13, 1980.



- 8 -
development in rural areas.  The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives.  Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides
for several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (December 1978)
and through a proposed loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty.  Increased assistance
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with considerable attention given to policy reform and to expanding the
development of labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the
Metropolitan Manila area.  A program loan to support major adjustments in
industrial and trade policies is currently being appraised. The share of
lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to increase
primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water
supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading and
low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide
support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas.  While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed
to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank lending for
these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of the
power generation program.
27.       This is the fifth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. A loan for a rainfed agriculture project is scheduled for
presentation with this project and one for urban development next week; loans
for livestock/fisheries credit, watershed management, rural roads and ports
projects have been appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in the
next several months.
PART III - THE SECTOR
28.       The Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA) is one of the most densely
populated urban areas in the world with an average density of 193 persons
per hectare. Almost 20% of the nation's population resides in the MMA in only
some 0.2% of the national land area.  Although the population in the MMA
produces 90% of the national revenue, the Government has only recently
attempted to alleviate some of the serious sanitation problems, which
include inadequate water supply, human exposure to sewage caused by the high
population density and a poorly managed system for the collection and disposal
of solid wastes.



- 9-
The Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
29.       The most recent National Health Plan (1975-85) cited poor sanitation
as a major factor in the high incidence of communicable diseases in the
country. Urban sewerage and sanitation have, up to now, been given little
attention in the Philippines. According to the most recent estimates, only
about 32% of the total population was served by individual water carriage
systems of excreta disposal, 24% had latrines and pit privies, and the rest,
no facilities at all.
30.       Rural areas.  In these areas only approximately 15% of the house-
holds have closed pit latrines, 28% have open pit latrines and 1% use public
toilets. About 11% have flush toilets and 45% no facilities. The
Environmental Sanitation Division of the Department of Health (DOH) is
responsible for the excreta disposal program in the rural areas. DOH is
intensifying the excreta disposal program in an effort to control fecal
pollution, which causes gastroenteritis, dysentery and intestinal parasites,
with special emphasis in areas experiencing schistosomiasis or cholera. The
Bank Group, through the recent Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project
(Loan 1710-PH/Credit 920-PH), is assisting the Local Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA) and the National Water Resources Council (NWRC) with a
pilot sanitation study for about eight rural communities to provide the basis
for a future project.
31.       Provincial Cities. There are reportedly only six major provincial
cities with public sewerage systems. Sanitation in most low-income areas is
poor, and sewage, foul water and decaying garbage are present in the streets
or adjoining ditches. LWUA has an ambitious water supply program for the
provincial cities with populations of 15,000 and above, but there is no
equivalent program for the safe disposal of the harmful waste water generated
by these water supply schemes. LWUA started planning in 1979 for sanitary
sewers in some provincial cities and, with assistance from USAID, is making
pilot studies on alternative types of sewer systems for those urban communi-
ties that cannot afford conventional piped sanitary sewer systems. Low-cost
solutions to improved sanitation which were developed by the Bank, based upon
the experience in Manila, are also being considered by LWUA.
Sanitation in Metropolitan Manila: The Project Area
32.       The sanitary and public health conditions in MMA vary widely.  The
upper income residents have piped water, sewage treated in septic tanks with
the effluent led into covered roadside drains, and regular garbage collection.
In contrast, about two million people live in dense and abject conditions in
blighted areas, in predominantly makeshift housing. Water is handcarried in
open containers from far-off sources; surface drainage is poor and the areas
are subject to deep flooding; sewers (sanitary or combined)Ll are rare in
/1 Sanitary sewer systems are designed to convey domestic sewage.
Combined sewers are designed mainly to convey domestic sewage and storm
water.



- 10 -
blighted areas, and sewage is usually disposed of in shallow open ditches
which frequently overflow onto roads making human contact with sewage unavoid-
able, and providing the basis for the spread of disease. Typhoid, cholera
and gastroenteritis are endemic; in 1972 morbidity and mortality from
typhoid and cholera were 1,800 and 80, respectively, per 100,000 population.
33.       One of the main goals of the project is to reduce health hazards
caused by the presence of exposed sewage in Metropolitan Manila. MMA has
been graded into areas with four classes of health hazards as follows:
Class 1: No Hazard. There are essentially no sewage-related health hazards
in these areas and the likelihood of public contact with untreated sewage is
very small. Class 2: Moderate Hazard. Only minor opportunities exist for
human contact with sewage in these areas. Class 3: Significant Hazard.
Opportunities for public contact with sewage are widespread in these areas.
Most of the sewer system consists of open, ill-defined ditches, and ponding
of sewage encourages mosquito and fly breeding. Slum children often play
barefoot in and around ditches filled with sewage. A total of 5,228 ha of
Class 3 areas has been identified. About 13% of this area (682 ha) is
included in the proposed project for upgrading to Class 2 standards. The
remainder is planned for improvement after 1982. Class 4: Great Hazard.
In these areas it is difficult for the public to avoid contact with sewage;
poor drainage often causes sewage to run over open ground. Public markets
in such areas are surrounded by open, poorly-defined drains which carry
sewage and are clogged with vegetable and other organic refuse. A total of
730 ha of Class 4 area have been identified and under the proposed project
all Class 4 areas would be upgraded to Class 2 standards.
34.       The major sanitary sewer system in MMA is a publicly owned system
operated by the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) in MMA's
central area. It serves 828,000 people living in 1,880 ha, 3.5% of MMA's
land area, and 13.5% of its population. It includes seven lift stations, an
outfall pump station, and an outfall at Tondo, the submarine part of which
has been washed away. The land-based part of the outfall is broken in
several places and discharges untreated sewage around the mouth of the Pasig
river causing shoreline pollution. This also results in sewage flowing into
streets and surrounding areas of low-income housing. A new pumping station
and a submarine outfall at Tondo are included in the proposed project. The
central area sewer system is overloaded and badly deteriorated. Unless this
system is rehabilitated, sewerage would overflow into the streets in many
parts of this highly congested, main commercial area.
35.       The amount of sewage presently generated in Metropolitan Manila is
about 760 Mld. About 1.14 million of the population (estimated at 6.73
million in 1980) living in 2,450 ha of the service area are served by public
sanitary or combined sewer systems. Another 2.28 million of the population
living in 10,970 ha of the service area are served by communal or single
septic tanks of varying standards of efficiency. The remainder have pit
privies or, in some poverty pockets, no service at all.



- 11 -
36.       In poverty areas, which cover about 10% of MMA and contain 35% of
its population, sewage is commonly discharged into street gutters, open
canals, esteros or rivers. Because of the lack of services and public
facilities, i-reets in poverty areas are littered with vermin-infested
garbage and excreta and esteros are often clogged with wastes. These
discharges cause waterways to be biologically degraded and septic conditions
to be prevalent for 9 to 10 months of the year.
Waste Water Discharges into Manila Bay
37.       Manila Bay is a marine inlet of the South China Sea and is the
final receiving body of water for all the sewage and urban runoff generated
in MMA and agricultural runoff from the Pampanga river watershed. The Bay
has a coastline of approximately 190 km and a surface area of about
1,800 sq km, and represents a major economic asset to the nearby inhabitants
who use it for commercial fishing, shipping, recreation, boating and salt
production. The increasingly uncontrolled pollution from pesticides and
fertilizers, sewage discharged into the Pasig river and surface drainage
from MMA are already adversely affecting the beneficial uses of the bay.
Metro Manila's beaches, popular among the poorer people, are contaminated by
fecal pollution.
38.       The level of pollution of the Bay is not fully known.  The proposed
project therefore includes a Bay monitoring program to determine the relative
pollution loads of the Pampanga and Pasig rivers. The submarine outfall in
the project would transport the sewage from Manila into deep waters to give
adequate dilution, dispersion and natural assimilation. However, to guard
against any unforeseen situation which would degrade the water quality and
affect the beneficial uses of the Bay, MWSS is making arrangements to
acquire treatment plant sites in the general location of three future
outfalls. It has been agreed that arrangements for the acquisition of the
Tondo outfall site would be completed by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.06 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Relationship to the Bank's Third Urban Development Project
39.       The Bank's Third Urban Development Project has three components
for the Metro Manila Area which provide water supply, combined sewers, public
toilets with bathhouses and community septic tanks. Included are: (a) the
Zonal Improvement Program (ZIP), involving comprehensive slum upgrading;
(b) the Metro Manila Infrastructure Utilities and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE), which includes water supply, construction of public toilets,
combined and sanitary sewers, including sewage disposal facilities, and road
improvements; and (c) a sites and services program to develop low cost
housing sites. MWSS would be closely involved in providing the water
supply, sewerage services and construction of public toilets in the Third
Urban Project in addition to being responsible for the construction of



- 12 -
combined sewers /1 in the proposed Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project.
Arrangements have been made for coordinating the implementation of the two
projects in these areas (see para. 45).
Bank Lending for the Sector
40.  The Bank's strategy in the water supply and sewerage sector is to
support the Government's investment program for improving water supply,
sewerage and sanitation facilities aimed at serving the low-income groups,
and to provide technical assistance for institution-building and staff
development. Three Bank loans, of $23 million, $88 million and $38 million,
were made in 1977, 1978 and 1979, respectively (Loan Nos. 1415-PH, 1615-PH
and 1710-PH/Credit 920-PH), for water supply projects in provincial cities
and Metropolitan Manila. MWSS has, in the last year, taken steps to
strengthen its organization and has made significant changes in its
management to improve planning, coordination, and staff training. There has
been substantial compliance with covenants (which included a 60% water rate
increase in October 1978), although the planned rate increase in 1979 has
been postponed because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures
resulting from recent oil price increases. There have also been unforeseen
construction delays; however, it is too early to determine if project
completion will be substantially affected by these circumstances. The
proposed project would be the Bank's first major involvement in a sewerage
and sanitation project in the Philippines. LWUA is making studies which may
lead to investments being proposed for sanitation in provincial cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
41.       The main objectives of the project are to bring about an immediate
improvement in environmental sanitation in the poor and densely populated
areas of Metropolitan Manila and to develop an institutional strategy for
the implementation of similar projects in the future. On completion of a
proposed eight-year program, of which three years are included in the
proposed project, stagnant pools of sewage would be removed from most of the
city streets; MWSS would be trained in operating and maintaining a modern
sewerage system; MMC would receive on-the-job training in the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of combined sewers; and a start would be
made on monitoring health and water quality in Manila Bay.  The project was
prepared by MWSS with the assistance of consultants and was appraised in
July 1979. Negotiations were held in February 1980. The Government's
negotiating team was led by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine
/1 Generally referred to as the Program to Remove Sewage from the
Streets (PROGRESS).



- 13 -
Ambassador to the United States. A staff appraisal report (No. 2742-PH
dated March 3, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
42.       The two principal components of the project are sewei .ge and sani-
tation. The sewerage component provides an affordable solution to problems
of collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater, which would be the
first step in the improvement of water quality in the Manila Bay, Pasig
River and contributory esteros and streams. The system would consist of
separate sewer systems for the north, central and south Manila basins and of
combined sewers and treatment of only dry weather flows for the San Juan,
Marikina and Laguna basins. The sanitation component is an interim action
program to provide the most cost-effective method of achieving a quick and a
very dramatic improvement in sanitation, public health and quality of life,
particularly in the densely populated, low-income areas of Metro-Manila.
There are two smaller components for the preparation of future projects
including training of staff and monitoring of water quality in Manila Bay.
Project Concept and Composition
43.       The project's concept and composition are unique because this is
the first time that a broad-based plan has been developed in the Philippines
for a city to tackle one of the principal causes of poor urban sanitation:
the lack of safe disposal of human wastes. This is also the first time that
a city has been graded for sanitation and an attempt made to remove the urban
poor's contact with sewage. Finally, the project offers to Metropolitan
Manila an affordable solution to achieving and maintaining, in the
foreseeable future, a reasonable standard of sanitation in a fast-growing
and crowded metropolitan area.
Project Description
44.       The main features of the project are described below.  Part A will
be financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the other parts by the
Bank.
ADB Financing
Part A
(a) construction of a 1.8 m diameter and 3.6 km long outfall at Tondo
into Manila Bay for disposal of sewage from Central Manila;
(b) replacement of the obsolete main Tondo pumping station;
(c) rehabilitation and upgrading of seven sewage lift stations;
(d) reduction of inflow and infiltration, and rehabilitation of
approximately 120 km of existing trunk sewers in the central service
area system; and
(e) detailed design and construction supervision.



- 14 -
Bank Financing
Part B
(a) Construction of a sanitary sewage collection system, including
house connections, covering 280 ha in Dagupan and 360 ha in
Pandacan, contiguous to the central service area system;
(b) technical services for improving sanitation in low-income blighted
areas;
(c) implementation of a pilot sanitation project;
(d) construction of combined sewers in about 1,420 ha of low income
areas with hazard to public health;
(e) equipment for septic tank emptying program, and maintenance of
sanitary sewers and combined sewers;
(f) monitoring of the new Tondo outfall, including a waste water
laboratory;
(g) health monitoring; and
(h) detailed design and supervision of construction.
Part C
(a) Detailed design of next stage water supply, sanitation and
sewerage projects;
(b) overseas training of MWSS staff in sewerage operations.
Part D. Monitoring of Manila Bay water quality, including needed equipment.
Project Implementation
45.       There is a need for close coordination between the PROGRESS program
for construction of combined sewers to be implemented under this project and
the MMINUTE program for the provision of a number of integrated urban
services to be implemented under the proposed Third Urban Development
Project.  To ensure appropriate coordination there will be a Program Director
responsible for both PROGRESS and MMINUTE who, for the PROGRESS program, will
report to MlWSS through an Executive Committee comprising key officials of
the Metropolitan Manila Commission, the Ministry of Public Works (which is
primarily responsible for MMINUTE) and MWSS. Project Managers for PROGRESS
and MMINUTE, respectively, would report to the Program Director. District
teams would be established in the four cities of Manila, Quezon, CaloQcan
and Pasay. The City Engineers in the four cities would be ex-officio
District Managers of the four District Offices and would be assisted by



- 15 -
full-time Deputy District Managers. The District Offices would have separate
teams to implement the PROGRESS and MMINUTE Programs. The District Offices
would report to the Program Director through the respective Project Managers
and be responsible for detailed design and supervision of construction. The
Metropolitan Manila Commission would be given on-the-job training in the
design and construction of the combined sewers and would be responsible for
maintaining the combined sewers after completion of construction. A condition
of effectiveness of the loan would be the execution of an agreement ac2eptable
to the Bank between MWSS and MMC defining responsibilities and procedures
for constructing the combined sewers (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Project
Agreement and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       In addition to its responsibilities for PROGRESS, MWSS would be
solely responsible for the implementation of the sewerage component and the
preparation of the detailed design of the next sewerage and sanitation
projects. MWSS is a wholly government-owned public utility corporation,
created by Republic Act 6234 in September 1971. It superseded the National
Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), which had been established in June
1955 under Republic Act 1383. Since its creation, MWSS has received loans
from ADB ($100.3 million) and IBRD ($85.0 million) for the ongoing Second
Manila Water Supply Project and is developing steadily into a reasonably
good utility. MWSS' day-to-day management is vested in the General Manager,
assisted by four Assistant General Managers (appointed by the Board, subject
to the approval of the President of the Philippines), one each for engineer-
ing, operations, finance and administration, and commercial and customers'
services. An Office for Corporate Planning has recently been established.
The Assistant General Manager (Engineering) heads the Office for Engineering
and Special Projects (ESP) which is responsible for MWSS' Capital Works
Program. ESP has recently been strengthened by the addition of two Project
Managers, one for water supply and another for sewerage. A position of
Project Manager for Sanitation is expected to be created and filled in
mid-1980. ESP's project implementation team is competent and, under Loan
1615-PH, MWSS has agreed that before appointing future Project Managers for
Water Supply, it would give the Bank an opportunity to comment on the quali-
fications and experience of the proposed candidates. A similar assurance
has been given for the appointments of Project Managers for Sewerage and
Sanitation (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
47.       The heavy investment program which MWSS is undertaking is of much
greater magnitude than any previous program and is large by Philippine
standards. In order to assist in implementing the program and deriving its
full benefits, the ongoing water supply project (Loan 1615-PH) includes a
total of 63 man-months of internationally recruited advisers, and training
and management consultants. The management consultants will review and make
recommendations for changes in the organization, reduction of accounts
receivable, collection of bad debts, improved financial planning, billing,
metering, leak detection and implementation of a planned preventive
maintenance program.  The training consultants have been selected and are
expected to be appointed in mid-1980.



16 -
48.       During the next five years, MWSS will need to increase its staff
from its present level of 2,500 to 4,000 to carry out its rapidly expanding
program. MWSS' Corporate Planning Office has prepared an institutional
strategy and a preliminary staffing plan, which is generally satisfactory and
would be reviewed by management consultants and implemented in consultation
with the Bank, as agreed under Loan 1615-PH. MWSS has also created a special
training division which would include training in sewerage maintenance and
operations and would take responsibility for administering the staff training
provided in the project.
49.       An estimated 800 man-months of internationally recruited consul-
tants' whose experience, terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank,
would be provided under the project for assistance to MWSS with detailed
design, construction supervision, and water quality monitoring for the
proposed project and detailed design of the next stage; 2,680 man-months of
local consultants to provide support services, such as drafting and assist-
ing the foreign consultants, have also been included. MWSS would employ
engineering consultants whose experience, terms and conditions are accept-
able to the Bank, for updating feasibility studies and making detailed
designs for the next stage water supply project, for which a total of 850
man-months of internationally recruited and 1,400 man-months of locally
recruited consultant services has been provided in the project (Section 2.02
of the draft Project Agreement). The average man-month cost for foreign
consultants, including transportation, housing, and local costs, ranges from
$8,000 to $10,000 depending on qualifications and experience. Local profes-
sionally qualified senior consulting staff are estimated to cost $1,350 per
man-month and draftsmen $465 per man-month.
50.       The National Pollution Control Commission (NPCC) is presently
carrying out a limited monitoring of shoreline waters of Manila Bay which
would be considerably expanded with assistance by consultants using
equipment provided under the project. An amount of $500,000 out of the
proceeds of the Loan would be made available to NPCC as a budgetary grant for
purchasing equipment from abroad to implement the program (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The Institute of Public Health of the University of the
Philippines (UP) would collect health statistics for the health monitoring
program. The statistics would be collected from health clinics and house-
holds in the low-income areas in the project area.  It has been agreed that
MWSS would make satisfactory arrangements with UP for carrying out the
program by January 1, 1981 (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The project is estimated to cost $177.4 million, including a
foreign exchange expenditure of $86.2 million. ADB is considering parallel
financing of $42.0 million to cover the foreign exchange component of Part
A. The proposed Bank loan of $63.0 million, together with ADB's loan, would
finance 59% of the total project cost. The Bank loan would finance 67% of



- 17 -
Parts B, C and D of the project, including $19.6 million of local currency
expenditures. Justification for local cost financing is given in para. 22
of this report. The total financing required for the project, including
interest during construction and working capital, is $230.8 mil'=ion. The
Bank and the ADB loan would meet about 45% of these financing requirements.
The balance would be financed from MWSS's internally generated funds ($40.8
million), a Government loan of $34.5 million, a Government payment to MUSS
equity ($49.9 million) and budgetary allocations to the University of the
Philippines and NPCC of P 4.7 million ($0.7 million).
53.       The Government would relend to MWSS $62.5 million of the proceeds of
the loan under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank, the
signing of which would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of the subsidiary
loan will be the same as those of the Bank loan. The Government would
allocate the balance of $0.5 million of the Bank loan to NPCC to finance the
foreign exchange component of the monitoring of Manila Bay. As in previous
Bank loans, the foreign exchange risk will be borne by MWSS. A condition of
disbursement for the works for the Dagupan and Pandacan sewer collection
systems under Part B(1) of the project would be the execution of a loan
agreement between MWSS and ADB for constructing the sewerage component under
Part A of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Retroactive financing limited to $250,000 for the ongoing pilot
sanitation project, representing 75% of total costs, and $750,000 for the
foreign costs of consulting fees is recommended for detailed design of a
next stage sanitation and sewerage project and technical assistance for
carrying out a monitoring program (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       Most of the project construction is below ground in densely popu-
lated areas with many other utilities and uncertain soil conditions.
Physical contingencies have therefore been estimated at 20% of the baseline
cost except for the Tondo sewage pump station for which a lower contin-
gency of 15% has been provided because its detailed design is nearing com-
pletion. This level of contingency provision is normal for sewerage
projects. Provision for price contingencies have been made as follows: for
local costs, 16% for 1980, 10% for 1981, 7% for 1982 and thereafter; for
foreign exchange costs 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981 and 8% for 1982 and 7%
for 1983 and thereafter.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       The Dagupan and Pandacan collection systems, estimated at $8.4
million and $5.0 million, respectively, are suitable for international
competitive bidding following Bank procedures. The sanitation component
consists of the construction of combined sewers in most of the municipalities
in the project area. These works are scattered throughout Metro-Manila and,
so as not to disrupt traffic, the work has been scheduled for staged
construction throughout the 1980-82 construction program. The contracts for
the works in each area are generally small in nature, ranging from $0.5 to



- 18 -
$1.0 million, and call for the supply and installation of the combined sewer
pipes. A total of some 40 to 60 small contracts are expected for combined
sewers and would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with MWSS' local competitive bidding procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign firms would be eligible to participate.
To the extent practicable, contracts for combined sewers would be grouped
together to make them attractive to large as well as small contractors. Bid
documents would be standardized to facilitate preparation and expedite Bank
review. All equipment required for the monitoring programs and MWSS' new
laboratory would be grouped together and procured through international
competitive bidding. Vehicles, tools and equipment (less than 1% of total
project cost) would also be procured through international competitive
bidding. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers for procurement through international competitive
bidding. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $20,000 each, urgently
required for project completion, would be procured through local shopping
procedures satisfactory to the Bank provided the total cost of such items
does not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
56.       Disbursements for civil works would be at 75% of expenditures.
For equipment and materials, disbursements would be at 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured equipment, and 75% of goods procured locally. For
detailed design, construction supervision, and overseas training, disburse-
ments would be 100% of expenditures. All disbursements would be made against
normal documentation.
Financial Aspects
57.       MWSS' financial position was greatly improved in 1974 when the
Government converted into equity all loans previously granted to the system
and increased water tariffs by 100%. In subsequent years, increases in
operating costs, coupled with large cash requirements to meet its development
program, necessitated another tariff increase in 1978.
58.       MWSS' financial requirement for its investment program for the
period 1980-85 is about P 8.9 billion ($1.2 billion). This represents a
substantial increase in relation to the level of investment of the past five
years when expansion of Manila's water and sewerage facilities was totally
neglected. In addition to the proposed project, MWSS's investment program
includes the Second Manila Water Supply Project financed under Loan 1615-PH,
a future water supply project presently under study and the next stage of the
sanitation program.  Contribution to MWSS's financial requirements from MWSS
internal cash generation is expected to be about 34%; 40% will come from
foreign loans; the Government is expected to contribute about 24% (10% as
equity and 14% as loans); and consumers' contribution will account for about
2%.  This is a satisfactory financing plan.  It has been agreed that MWSS
would carry out an annual review of its financial requirements in order to
determine the amount of equity contribution from Govermnent, amount of local



- 19 -
borrowing and tariff levels for water supply and waste water disposal and
would submit such review to the Bank not later than October 1 each year
starting October 1, 1980 (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       IWSS has agreed to implement a waste water disposal charge of 10%
on the water bills of all those who consume more than 30 cu m of water per
month in the area serviced by MWSS whether connected to the sewer system or
not. This charge will also apply to the central service area system,
increasing the present surcharge from 50% to 60%. It has been agreed that
the proposed waste water disposal charge would be implemented effective
January 1, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
60.       Financial projections of MWSS' sewerage and sanitation operations
show that the waste water disposal charge would be adequate to meet its
operating cost, including provision for depreciation and debt service to the
extent that it exceeds depreciation, until 1985 when it would need to be
raised to about 15%. The covenanted rate of return of 3% for the water
supply operation under Loan 1615-PH was met in 1979. However, it is
unlikely that the covenanted 5% rate of return will be met in 1980, because
(a) the planned rate increase of 25 centavos per cubic meter has been
postponed from October 1979 to the spring of 1980, due to the overall impact
of unforeseen inflationary pressures; and (b) delays in the construction of
the Second Manila Water Supply Project (Loan 1615-PH) reducing anticipated
increases in water sales. Accordingly, it has been agreed that MWSS would
generate, for its water supply operations, a 5% rate of return in 1981 and
an 8% rate of return in 1982 and thereafter (Section 4.05(a)(ii) of the
draft Project Agreement). A 25 centavo per cubic meter water rate increase
would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). It has been agreed that, starting in 1981, MWSS
would generate adequate revenues from waste water charges to produce a
positive rate of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation in the
sewer system and to cover operating and maintenance costs and depreciation
or debt service, whichever is higher (Section 4.05(a)(i) of the draft Project
Agreement).
61.       In order to improve MWSS' revenues and to help reduce future
Government equity contributions, MWSS has agreed that it would study the
possibility of creating new sources of revenue, including adjusting the
charges to industry according to the type of their waste water discharges
into the sewers and submit a report for the Bank's comments by March 1, 1981
(Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). MWSS would promptly implement
the findings of the study at the earliest possible time.
Economic Evaluation
62.       Most benefits resulting from this project are related to improved
health and environmental conditions that are not readily quantifiable.
Nevertheless, a computation for the internal economic rate of return (IERR)
was made using the expected increases in land values to measure some of the
benefits received by those living in the project construction area. Using



- 20 -
border prices, the minimum IERR for the project is about 11%.  Sensivity
analysis indicates that the project would remain economically viable after
taking into acount a reasonable range of uncertainties, including the
possibility of an increase in capital cost or reduction in project benefits.
Social Impact
63.       The total population in MWSS' service area is currently 6.7 mil-
lion, which is expected to increase to 8.1 million by 1984. This population
projection and that for water usage are similar to those developed for the
Manila Wiater Supply Project II (Loan 1615-PH). These projections have been
reviewed and found to be valid. MWSS is presently monitoring sewage flows
from housing in various income levels. For the purposes of the master plan
studies, sewage generation was assumed to be 70% of water consumption, as
calculated in the water supply project. This is a reasonable assumption
given that all bath water and kitchen water does not flow into the sewers.
The population served under the project would be a little over 3 million.
64.       There are no reliable estimates of the number of urban poor in
Manila although about 2 million reportedly live under highly unsanitary
conditions in some 415 blighted areas throughout the city. The project
aims at making an immediate improvement in the living conditions of about
900,000 of the urban poor. MWSS would also provide improved sewerage service
to some 780,000 persons, mostly of the urban poor category living in the
central service area.
65.       Taking only the 900,000 persons (1984) served by the Bank-financed
program for building combined sewers, which is estimated to cost $26 million,
the umit cost of providing the service is about $30 per person. Most of
the beneficiaries are the urban poor. This is a very low cost in comparison
with the high public health benefits of the upgraded service to the whole
city. The sewerage program, costing $100 million, would additionally
provide benefits through improved service to 780,000 persons at $130 per
person and at the same time reduce environmental pollution of shore waters.
66.       For a poor family of 8 members living in MMA's central sewer
service area, if connected to MWSS water supply and sanitary sewer system
and consuming about 15 cu m per month (a quantity adequate to meet basic
needs), the monthly water supply and waste water bill would be P 9.60
($1.30). Assuming this family has an income of P 600 ($81) per month
(less than half the poverty line/1), this bill would be about 1.6% of house-
hold income. For a family with an income at three-fourths of the poverty
line of P 900 ($122) per month and a higher monthly water consumption of
30 cii m, the water supply and waste water charge would be about 2.4% of
household income. These are reasonable charges and would not cause hardship
to the poor. Poor families living in areas to be served by the combined
/1 The Bank has defined the absolute urban poverty line in the Philippines
as $250 per capita per annum in 1977.



- 21 -
sewer system and who consume less than 30 cu m per month would not pay any
waste water charge.  This represents a cross-subsidy to families in the
lower income groups, estimated to be about 47% of TRISS' consumers.
67.       The additional annual jobs generated by the project auring the
1980-84 implementation period are estimated at 990, 3,700, 4,700, 1,300 and
1,400 in each year, respectively. An annual average of 55 supervisory
positions would also be created in this period.
Environmental Impact
68.       Together with the ongoing major water supply expansion program (Loan
1615-PH) and an upcoming solid wastes management project, now being prepared
with Bank financing, the proposed sewerage and sanitation project Xwould be
another step towards improving the environment of MW7SS' service area and
Metropolitan MIanila.  Hlowever, while the project will make an immediate
improvement to public health, there is a danger that industrial waste water
discharged into the sanitary and combined sewer systems could adversely affect
water quality in M-anila Bay. It has been agreed that the Government would
promulgate, by January 1, 1981, suitable industrial wastes regulations, for
implementation by 1MWSS, in order to reduce or eliminate industrial toxic
discharges into the Bay (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). NPCC has
set up a task force to study methods for financing industry to construct,
operate and maintain facilities to remove toxic wastes from industrial
effluents now polluting M4anila Bay. The task force's report will form part of
the solid wastes management study to commence by June 1, 1980 (Section 3.08 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Project Risks
69.       This is the first major undertaking by 1WSS in the field of sewerage
and sanitation and, because of its innovative nature, a cautious approach is
being taken by implementing only 13% of the program for building combined
sewers in areas of significant health hazard at this time.  This would allow
the institutional arrangements between MISS and MIMC to be tried out under
field conditions and needed adjustments to be made before further implementa-
tion of this program. There is adequate provision in the project for
engineering consultants to advise MISS in the design and supervision of
construction of the sewerage component and no unusual risks are foreseen.
MWSS has, in the last year, taken important steps to strengthen its organiz-
ation in the field and has made significant changes in its management to
improve planning, coordination and staff training. Further improvements are
planned for this year.  The Government has shown its support for MUSS' work by
approving annual increases of water tariffs in 1978. MWSS' leadership and
staff responsible for project implementation are committed to tackling the
sanitation problems of the metropolis and risks associated with any institu-
tional and management problems that may arise during project implementation
are considered moderate. Bank supervision missions will give special atten-
tion to such problems so that timely steps would be taken to correct any
situation before it seriously affects the project.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Iletropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Systems and the M4etropolitan Mlanila
Commission, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and MWSS, agreement between 14WSS and 1TMC defining responsibilities for the
combined sewers, and implementation by fWSS of a 25 centavo per cubic
meter increase in its water tariffs have been made additional conditions of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement); the
signing of the ADB Loan Agreement has been made a condition of disbursement
for expenditures relating to the Dagupan and Pandacan sewage collection
system (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Feburary 29     , 1980



- 23 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES               RHEnRCE GCOUPS (ADMUSYUAUCE
LAID AR8A (THOUSAD SO. DI.)                         E                      - HST  CENIT EST1           _
TOTAL           300.0                                                 SAz          ss       NEWT  gIGC
AGRICULTURAL     86.7                                UIT RCENT       GGRAMC  lNCOHE           iNCOM
1960  /    1970  . ESTllATE        RE6ION  .  GXODP L    GROUP a
CNP PR CAPITA ('SS)                 140.0       230.0    510.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUPTI-A Pl CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0       301.0    329.0            371.1     262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    27.4        36.9      44.5
URAN POPULATION (PERCENT 0 TOTAL) 30.1        31.8      34.0            27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA 2000 (MILLIONS)                      76.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      128.0
YE4R STATIONRY POPULATION IS REAED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. D4.                      91.0       123.0    148.0            154.8      45.3        44.6
PER SQ. 01. AGRICULTURAL LAD    360.0       472.0    513.0            566.7      149.0      140.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTtRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                        44.7        45.5      46.0            41.3      45.2        41.3
15-64 YIS.                        52.3        53.6      51.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.9       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.7             2.4        2.7        2.4
URAN                              4.0         3.8       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BSXTH RATE (PE THOUSAND)    45.0         43.0      35.0            30.2       39.4       31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    15.0        11.0       9.0             8.3      t11.7        9.2
CROSS REPRWODUCTION RATE            3.3jf       3.3       2.4             2.1       2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       191.7    643.0
USERS (PERCENT OF YAIED WOMEN)   ..           2.0      22.0           34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEU CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1       101.0    111.0            106.2      99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                  83.0        86.0      87.0           104.1      94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0        45.0      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.Ot&      22.0      19.2            16.9       17.4       23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    16.0        10.0       7.0             4.8       11.4        8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0         57.0      60.0           61.1       54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
MIOUSAND)                          98.0        80.0      65.0           46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATU oput O
POPMLATIOS)
TOL                                ..          ..      39.0           21.9       34.4        60.6
ASU                                ..          ..      51.0           46.2       57.9        75.7
RUL                                ..          ..      33.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TD E%CRETA DISPOSAL T(   T
oP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      56.0           20.4       40.8        46.0
U                                  ..         ..      76.0            65.0       71.3        4
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0           14.7       27. 7 ?.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..         ..   3150.0           3790.3    67"9.4       226. 4
POPULATION PER NURSING PRSON         ..      340.0   4990.0           1107.4    L522.1       119f.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL.                         1180.0       850.0     tO.O           613.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..           203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..           1110.3     1404.4     2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED           ..          ..        ..            23.9      27.5        22.L
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HSUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.8         5.9                       5 3.2     5.4         5.3
URBAN                              ..         6.2       ..              .         5.1         5.2
RURtAL                             ..         5.8        ,               ..       5. 5        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                         2.3        .               .         .          1.9
CESAN                                         2.1       ..              ..         ..         1.6
2RI(AL                                        2.4       ..               .         .          2.5
ACCESS -U ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            16.5        22.9h    31.0              ..       28.1        S0.0
URBAN                              ..        62.S8h      .               ..      43.1        71.7
RBRAL                              ..         5.8h    10.0              *.        9.9        17.3



-   -  24-                                                  A11NEX  I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHIIPIS - SOCIAL  IECATO1S DATA SHU
gMuumcs 31300PS (8133Az
MILIPPRs                       M MOST iic  ESTTA2) 
SAM        SAtKE    KM  HiOI
IISS IICINT    (ZOGRAPHIC   IZCt         I21COIE
- . .    1960 /b    1970 L  LTMI TE /lb      3100N /c   GROUP /d    OUP L.
EDUIICIOx
OIUOLUSTE 381106
n*KXY,    TOSgL                 9f.0        114.0    105.0             97.9       82.7      102.5
Mau                 98.0       115.0    102.0             98.7       81.3       108.6
IU2wA               93.0       113.0    10P.0             91.4       75.8        97.1
cCO16Z:   TOTAL                  26.0        50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4       33.5
MALI                28.0        59.0      65.0O           46.7       33.0        38.4
vmiIZ               25.0        42.0      47.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VCAT0OAL MUL. (S 01 S1BUn)  15.0                6.0        ..            12.5        9.8       11.5
PIL-TI-ACIR RATIO
PiLnun                           36.0        29.0      29.0            32.5      34.1        35.3
SKCON^U                       - 27.0.        33.0      31.0            .5.8      23.4         2.9
IIT LS MAa 3tAUL (PEYIT)           71.9        82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0       64.0
CONSUMION             -
£ASS IFI MCIa   PU ThUID
POPULATION                        3.0         8.0       8.9            6.1        9.3        13.5
LDIO UIVZIM     U   0T88A8D
OPMAUTIAfX                       22.0        39.0      44.0           84.4       76.9       122.7
TV SSCIVUS PER TWSUID
POPULATUOM                        1.4        10.0      17.0            22.4      13.5        38.3
NIIPAP2, (DALMY (Z31
1I3r S?") CIRCLAIION1 PU
NUS*M* POSSATION   -               17.0        14.0      18.0            24.2       L8.3       40.0
cw       imuA sL ATMDZ PR CATA  0.6              .t       7.6           -3.6        2.5         3.7
LABOR roRC
M5LAAOR FORC0  (TUWS8      )    10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FMtALE (PERCENT)                 34.4        33.1      35.3            36.7      29.2        25.0
AGLULTMC   (PUOUT                61.0        55.0      50.9            54.6      62.7        43.5
IDUsmS (PZ1CDT)                  15.2        15.d      14.8           16.3       11.9        21.5
PAItTICIXPATO RATZ (PUCE?)
TOt.                               39.8        36.6      35.3            40.7      37.1        33.5
hALZ                               52.1-       48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8       48.0
FrNALr                             27.4        24.4      23.3            31.0      20.4        11.8
'coNliC ougmoucy RATIO                1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1       1.1         1.4
t21COtlE DISTUSUTION
PFfCEN   Of tIV nasTs  s
9!CED aY
81315? 5 PDT 0T hOr USEOLDS   28.8             ..        ..            14.9       15.2       20.8
HIdGST 20 PlC1  0 3'US0LDS  56.2             53.9      53.3           46.8       48.2        52.1
LET  20 PERCENT Of H0SOLDS    4.2             3.7       5.5             6.2       6.3         3.9
LOESM 40 P3ICLII 0  1I3USQOWS   11.9        11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3       U1.6
POVEIT!Y TAR    GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVTIT 1IC0Il
LEVEL (USS PU CAPITA)
1                                  ..          ..    250.0            193.1     241.3       270.0
RlraAL                             ..          ..    190.0            128.7      136.6      183.3
ESrMA?  RELATIVE POVERTY 28C31
LZVEL ('US$ PER CAPITA)
1218AM                             ..          ..    132.0           136.8      179.7       282.5
2D1AL.        ,                    ..          ..      87.0           96.d      103.7       248.9
ESTL4ATED POPU.ATION BELO. A3SOL5
POVERTY MCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UItM                               ..          ..      39.0           32.0       Z4.8S       20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0           52.5       37.5        35.3
Bar aweiable
N.c applicable.
15 
/a   TM adZlaed poap aveZges for  tcb indicaCer are popuLacLio-weiZht*d geomcrlc  arne, excludint cth  cxer_e
alues of cub inicator and the mot popuLated couecry in each group. Coverae of countries aong Eri
indicators depeods *e aveilabiliey of data and is mot uniform
!b    Unless scherwiss noted, data  t  1940 rfeer to any year beteesn 1959 and 1961; for 1970, becMmen 1969
and 1971t and for Most Rect Lsciweta. btueens 19?4 and 1977.
/c   East Aaia 6 Pacific;  /d  t4wer Middle Incme (s281-550 per capita, 1976);  io ItLcerediAta Middle Incoe
(5551-1135 per capita. 1176);  /f  1950-55;   Ij Av. 1960-62;  /h  1967, hou-eholds.
3oat Recent Eatiute of GN? per capita is for 19718.
uguec, 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
______      rAL__ IC___                                                          Page   3   of   $
kiss    atog  tedte Sea drin   from sources* gerolaY judged the esiW anthsritstiv  sad. reliable, it should alse be acted that they eW Met be intern.-
fln       ogaab.  om,of tO. Leek of  tend-tdiosd dnfteltions sad .-.est. s ed by different eountries in colleeting the data. Th. dat.e ae, nssethslnee,
usefu.l to describe, orders of esgpitods, indceate trends, sad cherectorine, certein ajr differencs between counatries.
Theg4j96  grpp aeres for each todlator ste popalatioa-eight.d gewtrin  smess, seolding the eatrew  valses of the Indicator end the neSt popelted.
oosniThihUjiiip706to lack of data, poop awregee Of all indloahere few espits]. Prlse Oil ftportee sad of Indicators of Motess to Waeur sad Exreta
Plepesalt, lousing, Inca Mstribsetice end Poverty for other co-tey group. are poieLatioo-eightd. geoestric --mm cithont eaciusio of the entrees ma.es end
the Let populated ocotry.  Since. the cceI        of9  cutries=a        the. indicator dodonansi.tvfdtaadoctuioe    ssisnst be teerised
indicatoa aa ie er          h  coctryen         :rsig  ases.4         "mul                                                                             A:&   r
LAI AMA (thoussd sq.kha.)                                                              ke   ofoeaDsos   otn   femlto)-ttl   re.sdrr
WW Tots.l eufece  rens. oprisiog lesd erea sad inlan  waters.                       meter o      t'Af po le  ttl  ofen4ad    2al  erodbysereedipela
ufl-lt.ra., -  Hst recet estimate of agriculturalarea osed tmqrarily                    percenatges of tbsir reepective populations. Ecreta disposal eW toclode
or peranenotly for crops, pastures, *  rket ad kitchen gao.deesm or to               the, collection and disposal., with or  itbout treatvent, of hina s-cet
ide fellow,                                                                          cad -sthe-wter by eate-hase syet-  or the  -s  of pit wifles sad e.il.a
21ZIPCAkP~ftPIA   - SNFP per ..Pita setmnetes at cu~rrent market pricte,                Pnntltinoer" siie- Populatice divide   yatro   rciigpwiis
19i].  It9Thj saws  on,ereion esthod as Vwold Bask Atles (19%76-T  basic);               iaIfW'rrom   eicac±  school at anivereity leni.
96,i7,And i978 date.                                                           Posaison   flaursing Person - Pepelation divided by ester of practicing eats
SPDCSBUAWf   Po CATA -Anneal cneswption, of ocena  energy                            en   ae        hae wsterse, practical owerse, end assistost sorses..
(coYa'end l4ignite,ptrosn  eatosi g  as nd hydro-,  eclee  and gan-                    ?mainprKsie   e    oal.turboa. and  -oea - Population (total, -bha,
thersal siectricit) in k1lispam  of veal equivalent per capit.,; 1960,                 en   orldiie  b   hsrrspective  uasterof hospital beds avaislel in
1970  end i9id data,                                                                   public sad private general sod epewialized bostpital end rehabilitation center..
Hospitals are sstehlioadaots perennenutly staffed by at isest one phyeician.
POPUrATIOR AND VITMLL STATISTICS                                  ~~~~~Establi1sheente providing principally custodial oare are tot iscoded. Rural
Ttal PM.Ltlii796 Hi-Yest (illions) - As of (sly i; L960, 1970, sad                     hosptales  howevr, ieclods health and medical osaters not pe-enetiy staffed
1977 dt..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bly a phyicis  (hot by a nedical assistant, curse, Aideife, ste.) chich offer
Urbanpplton(ecn oeftots].) - Patio of urben to tota  poplation;                        in-patient  ccommedatioe and provide a liSted range of medical fcuilitie..
differn  deiitions ourban  areasye affect  sosperabi'lity of data                  disce rdeis   s     oa   eke   faesin   oo   ioegef
smog. coont,res; 1960, i970, sad 1973 data.                                         ihitlfidiTda byh tn.hioeber of beso.
Poouition Projectioca
Ponclatt- In -- CuorenU  pop.sletion projections sre based on               USSN0
1973 tota  populationi by  gSa  end sea and their mortality end fertility        Avrg   irofr Iiuetd (eoeprhueod      oa,uban. endrua-
rates. Projection  pretrs or sertaity rates coeprise of tarot                                                                                      I ostl   oseoo     ru   f vdaat    ir   livng quarter  and
i-1wis oneseig life eopectsney at birth Increasing with cowatry's                  their esin eeals. A boarder or lfodgr  Wa  orSay not be included in the
PerIcaita Iccoe  levl, end t-ale  lift 5epectsasy stshiltieig at                   househoid for Statistical porpoes..
77.5 years. The paramters for fr-tility rate also have threse levei              doreeoheofernspeem-talurn ad el - Aler... subr
assaLog decline In fertility aoc-odisa to incomen iy] sad Past                     of pereco  per  -o   nalsba   n   oa  oc ied oeotionsi dwelies..
foeily olawsing performasce. tach country is then asigned one of theeg             rsapectively.  iweilings  maluod  en-pereneetsotructores end ocecuptod parts.
tie. osinations of ertelitty end fertility trwAs for projection                  Acest   lcrct   pretof d.eIe(-total urhn. end ru-.I                            on
purposes.                                                     n~~~~~~~~~~"eotionaldoeli    noheecrct  in tirig quorters as peceotsgv o
Station   ion - Ina etattoary population. threisnogr,       t               total, urban, end rura  dcellings repeticely.
rasi qual to the death rate, and alas the  p
etouctore-ains  ononetnt. This is achieved oeay after fertility rates          EDUATION
decine.t  the repiacecent leve] of -nit tat r-prodbuction rate, chee              Z -tdEmla.  Ratios
eah gnrtiot of scee   relceitself sweetly.  The etaticoss  pops-                   Priam"iihooI- tot&alesndZ            m el. -GOss. total,  ele and fonele s.roIl-
1tatlo  sto  se -ostieated -e the  ai  of the projected charactertiestc               at of all aes atthe. Priryeelaprcngs of respective priesry
of the popuiation is the poet 20th), end the rate of decline of fertility            sehool-mge poPolatioc; coreally Lociudes cildree agd. 6-ti .-per  Out
ratv to replscesent lord,                                                            adjusted for different, 1egthe of priesry eduxetioc; for c.outrIes cith
Year 3tatitonary pouuletica Is reahed - The year  hee stationaey population            universa  educatioc earolleect  may eaced 100 perceot  iniec  cor  pupils
nice has bee  reaced.                                                                are below or shun the offticilocol  age.
Dcbtoe Denity                                                                    leoner scholi. total  fl ndPee     - r*epted as eie-v;  -eo.dnry
Per Sc. he. - Old-yost population Per square kiloater (150 hctoree) of                edcto   eursa  lat !four yer f appr-ed priesry itetructiot;
totl area                                                                            pr-idss general occtio...l, or teacher training ioetructono  or- pupils
Perx s k. P.Iercla  ad- Comeputed -  above for apicltoral lend                         u_14l  of 12 to 17 year  of age; cowrrepondence courses are generally
only.                                                           eun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sluded.
Ponlat~i-nA   Stru ture (cr t) - Children (0-lb pears),  orhisg-'ege                    _octtocal eerdllat (os-eno  f seodr) - V tniea .. eIsiitutioee loetude
(13-i. yare  sa  retred(hY.ear  end ovr) as percentages of Md-year             tehoical, iodostrial   rohrpors   hc  operte Iodepesd-tly or an
populatioe; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                 departments of easoday insitutin...             nP
Poteslation Growth date (percent) - total - Annua.l growth rates of total did-         Pupil-teacher ratio - priaq. and seons  . Total etudets enrolled It
Year popuAti... for 1950-oc  1970, end 1,97O-77.                                       prissy and secondary level  divide  by meters of teachreIn tie  -orr-
Poinclatin iG,_ti Rate  eoc    -b-ea  - Anneal growth rates of urban                     spending lsvels.
ppltesfor 1950-oO, 10-,ad1970-75.                                              Adulpt litrac  ra.tet(percent) - Literate  dulto (cole to rend and rite)
Crd   irhL   crthuaC - Acasa live births per thouesed of aid-                            a  ecntg   f oa  adult popultion aged 15year  sad over.
year population.; 1930, 1970, sod 1977 date.
Crued  Death Paet  per thousand) - A.=eon deaths per thouand of did-yea,            SUMPC
populatico; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                             Peene  ae(e  hosad ocpl.tioc) - Paseenger oars  eopross setor ears
Gross Reprdodution Patr -iv-rnge eeher of daughtera a oceo sill best                   sea ing e  thani sigh't perons; ec-L.d. amb.2s..... hearses sod .ilitery
10 her  oreal rproduotire pe.riod If the roPeriencee present ego-                    vehicle..
speific fertility ratee; osuaLIj fiv-ear averages ending is 1960,                  Psdio Receiver  (pee, thued oositioo) - All typs  of receiler. for radio
1970. and ifl¶.                                          broadeasos to inneral publ~ic per thousn  of YPopottios; s-1ldes onli-cse
Pseity pi1::og -Acceorn.Acsl(huads)- stua os.r of                                      receiver, it. countries and to yearn she, registration of radio  see  05 _ c
occePto.   ofbrt-onrl  eicsune  asice  of national family                            effect; date for recent years asp tot be coparable stor  s-t o-onrien
plactig Proegrn.                                                                     abolished licensIng.
Pselo.Plstis -dere  orec of matried oceo)  -Pecentage of eucried              IVbcevre(e  thuadeacaio                     V rece.ivers for broadont to gaenerl
Oonofci"d-habin  aPe (1 -apom  wi          bs brth-cotrol device...oprcosc   oulto;eoue   niesd  Vrcieei   onre
to eli sinnd ennin Sern sW  go-p.                                                    end it year   hen registration of TV sets te  10 effect.
sE    797710K                                            Peespaper Ci~~~~~~~~~~rcuaIonc (per!:; thouSan  eoltto) - Shows the ovrage circlation
FOODhAND  77s7TIOdsts             C    o(96-110)-Ldn  fprcaiao   daily geceral ieetnwppr , define  as a periodical publication
-d VFddII& kC1It,     ~~;~=11    - Ind    of pe  epit.devoted prisrily to recording ge-ral two,  It is consdered. to he "daily'
-neL prduotiono  aO foodeo itie   Production  cc.lude.s eed and                      if it oppears at least four tinee a vwi.
feed and is on calndar yea  hssis.  C-d ities cover prissy goode                   Cinmma Annual Attendnc cer Capita -er Ovear - Based on the oseher of tickets
(.g. sugarcens ic-teed of sugar) ohich are edible nod contain outriente             nolTd _during the year  Itooin   deisshvo  to driv-It otonses nod nobi1s
(eg.cffee acd tea Sen exccluded).  Aggregate production. of Seach co-try          unite..                  'u
Is based on atioa  enae.        rdue.rienihs
Per -apita supply of ontries' (p rietpOfreOur ents( .C"eptetdfron                LAIP r
per day.  ivo.ilbls supplies oeegrise doreatic production, ieqorts I...            forcs. and uneeplopd hot eocioding hueis,students, etc. Defioit-con
voporta, sa hange. In stont.  Net supplien eociude miteL feed, oeedn,              to caricca o-untrien are cot coparable.
quanities used  nfood prcocessig, endlee  on  iatributico. Require-              F..pL. o},pe r)en7  - Peale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
nsssnvtiented by PAO base.d on P07siological  Iede for toreal             lyjj71Z(plcet)- ab rfcrveit faring, forestry, hunting sad
notivity nod health considering  -svtremeetal teeperatore, body oeIghte,                   as.;   ..percenageof total labr force.
ago sod see distributIons of population, nod .ilosing I  prerent for             Coduse  prcn)-lbor force to dicing, cons.truction,  eoufacturiog nod
Po-eteit hbounohid level .                                                           lntrloitty  eaernd gas an percentage of total labor fore.
Per cpta suwyo   rtei P era P,ein               Protei.e.cotent of per             Prie,tooPt  (perecet) - total saLe  and 'oseat  - Participatico or
caPita net sppl  f;rfood per  ay  le uyy of food IS unlIned an                    aeticity rates are conputed as total, male, nod- tootle  labor force as per-
abov.-  Rquirsaontn for sil countries established by UitA P-eid. for a             cetage  of total, sale and Pesals population of all ages repectively;
dini_c a.11-a osro 60 greese of total protein per dp and 20 gren  of               i960, 1970, and 1975 data. These are ILIOn participation  rates reflectiong
ansled pulse protein, of t%ich 10 gras  Should be eni-1 pretetin.              age-set struture of the population, and lbeg tine tren.APo  eiee
These standerds are Lcae r than tbhee of 73 gr-  of trtal Protsin end              are free otiosal soesres-te.t
23  rsn  f en lProteio as an averge for the ~onrd, proposed by PIAD              lb" 9ppp,gi                     atoo   ouainudr  3ad6   n   vrt
ontie Third Acorid Pond Survy,                                                    h         forWc i agell gru Rtof 1-fi years.t.       r1     d65 dI              t
Per caita orete"   upl free animal and pulse - Protein Supply of food
derived free entels  n  pussI  re    r dyp.                                    noO  DCMRSTR ICus
Child (sans. 1-4) AIrts.iy  at  se       r thosn     - AnneL denth. perdthousad      P.rcntae  f Privat.Inor  (btip on each and kd) - Osotived by richest
to SRe grop 1-Yeers,tocIldre  Ithis age group; for mist deve-                        3  pecet riche   0Peren,  poors...t250 percent, end poorest i0 percent
oping eoutrIe  data derived fron life tablee.                                        of households.
tilkIf 0                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~P0970T TAR=f S5P
lost to soPrth (pry-J - tA-rage  -ub- of yer of life                      tetisatedAslt   oet  on   ee  IS   e   aia     ra   c  ua 
resal    `Ng tybirth;i 196 970. n  1977. data.                                       Abslue pvetybon lve  is tha  isc~oes levlt belo  ohic  a ecdarur
Infeot Sertl _y Rate (per thousnd       A-onnul deaths of Waante under one             cutrit io'alSy adequate diet plus eseta   o-food requireetis IS not
yaofaeper thouand live births.                                                 affordabhle.
Access to Sefe Water (percent of MosIltion    total_ urban.td rura  -                HEtieated pelatin Povrty 1ase  Isi Ri  Pe 9 ita.) - urban and rura
Suaer  f popl  (ttal uban, so  rra) cite  eantiacsso                             rAl relative poverty tocat, lce  isoethido   vrgeprcpt
Safe enter supply (Includes treated surface eSatrs or untreated but                  personal i-oor  of the country. Urban leve  Is derived fron the rural leve
.tctsninatd enter ouch at that free Protected boreholes, springs,                    ethb adjusteet for higher see  of living in urb-an  le..
and SenitarynId )a  peren.tage  of their respective populations. In                Estlmtd Popnulation Selce thbolute Pvrtync lve   recect) - urban and
anuba   ra     ulir fcountain or etsndpost located not Mero than             rural -Pret ofppltoIuba   n   ua)ooer    hcuspe?
200 asters fre  a honsse eq be considerd as being  ithi. reasonable
acess. of that house.   In risra  area  reasoA"ble acrs.  -Iud I-py
tha  theh cesi fe or mester, of the hooeehcld do set have to spend a                                                       Ecotoic sod Social Pate Divisin
dispteportioate psrt of the day Ic fetching the fsdily'e cetec nees                                                   Pooic Analysis and Projecti..s Dlpartant
August 1979



-   26  -                                                                     4    5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Anal average              1979
Actual                      get.             Proiected                        arowth rates ()           shere
1972     1975    1976    1977    1978        1979       1980        1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of GDP
National Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   2l,298    22,594            29,392         6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613        -70        -70      -387       -465       -262         -         -         -           -
CDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129            29,129         6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices        3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489          5,865    6,068       6,484      8,271         8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices        3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592          4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022         7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade            3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464        4,897      7,760        5.4        1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133        768   1,129       1,510     1,604      1,586         511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                     10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861         15,646   16,393      17,262     21,421         5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963          5,822     6,176      6,552      8,524        12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743          4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410         7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833          4,537     4,807      5,227      7,328         9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
us$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                      3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385          5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259         5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690          7,043     7,536      8,064     11,061         8.6      6.2        8.0        35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853          7,617    8,074       8,558     11,072        6.0       8.5        6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index                47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1       11.4       7.9         -
Import price index                44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1       13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade index             105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9           98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6        1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                            4.5      3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                 0.93    0.59      1.24    1.22    2.32         1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3           23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0           29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl  stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5              29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9      7.1      6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)              --- (Z of GDP in currentpices)---                   Labor Force in 1978 /c              Million       (S)
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                  Agriculture                           7.4     44.4
Tax revenue                        9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  Industry                              2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                   Services                             5.6     33.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.7               Unemployed                           1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9      3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Aeia and Pacific Region
waveuber 1979



ANFiX 1
-  27  -                                                         P4eg  5 of 5
RALANCe OF PAYMENTr AND) EXFRNAL ASSISTANCF
(USS$ mIll I.n)
Act uA Iut.                                         Prolectd
1972       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979      1980      1961       1965
SuamarX of Solanoe of Pavfento
Exports of goods and services               1,455      3.170      3,387      4,161      4.736    5,790    6,620    7,650    15,5(O
Of vhich:  exports of goods               1,136      2,294      2,574      3,151      3,425    4,260    4,900    5.700    12,100
Imports of goods and services               1,632      4,412      4,763      5,248      6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods               1,230      3,459      3.633      3,915      4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905    13,100
Tranefers (net)                               188        318        269         260        312       340       370      400        600
Current Account Balance                      11       -924    -1.107        -827    -1.274   -1.780   -1,930   -2,180    -1,400
Direct investment (net)                       -22        125        144         216        163       150       150       170       250
7LT loans (net)                               140        3S9      1,040        662         634    1,000    1,300    1,670        1,180
Official-source loans (net)                  94        117        282        332         333       420      520       710        780
Private-source loans (net)                   46        242        758        330        SO0       580       780       960        400
Other capital la                               56        -d1       -238         113        233        47       100       120       170
Overall Balance /b                           94       -521       -161        164        -54      -583      -380       200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c          551      1,358      1,640      1,525      1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130         3,200
Grants and Loan Comitments
Official grants                               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Total public loans                          422.0      769,4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
EBRD                                       29.5      114.0      226.0      317.5      533.0
IDA                                        10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       28.0
Other multilateral                         43.3      106.0       64.2      207.3      189.2
Governments                               275.5      182.3      391.6      122.3      370.4
of vhich CFE                              0.0       13.2        5.9        0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                   2.0       52.5       52.0      194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                     61.7      314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                       0.0        0.0      367.2      129.7      219.2
Other MLT loans                             130.0      283.o      603.6      134.8       914.0
Memorandum  Items
Grant element of coomit%e.ts                 28.0       16.4        8.8        14.7       16.8
Average interest (1)                          5.4        7.4        8.3         7.9        7.4
Average maturity (years)                     17.3       16.7       13.1        15.3       15.9
Medium & Long-Tern Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of
period)                                1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                     2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
fublic debt service                        -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                       -51.6     -73.0       -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other MLT debt service                     -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                         -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -798.0    -910.0
Debt burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                           22.1       14.9       15.7        18.0       20.0                          tc r 31. 1978
Debt service ratIo L                         22.7        15.6       16.4       19.5       20.6                         _eunt  Percent
Debt aervicefGDp                              3.8         3.0       2.9         3.7        4.0   External Debt         (vSS elm)
Public debt s*rvice/government                                                                    (disbursed only)
revenue                                    17.0        9.1        9.9       12.0       20.1      IUtD                  546    13.0
Terms  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aBoo Grump La    576  13.8
Terms                                                                                                 Other multi-
Interest on total DOD/total Doo                                           ~~~~~~~lateral        277      6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DWD               6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4         4.0     Government          1,039    24.d
Total debt service/total DOD                 17.7       16.9       10.5        15.8       13.3      Suppliers             271     6.'
Financial
Dependency Batlos                                                                                       istitutions       1.254    29.9
Bonds                 771    18-4
Gross disbursements/isports (GNFS)           30.2       21.4       37.9        28.7       34.3     Total public
Yet transfer/i.ports (CUFS)                  12.7        7.7        6.1         5.4        5.4        tLT debt         4.188   100.0
Net trasefet/gross disbursements             41.9       36.2       16.2       18.9        23.2     Other IILT debt    2.651    63.3
Exposure                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other U.? debt
(Lca. um-
ditsbursed)       3,293    78.6
16LD disb./gross total disb.                 4.7        9.8        5.5         7.4        8.3     Tf; public
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e          4.8       10.7        6.2         7.5        8.3        debt ("ed.
IRR) DOD/total DOD                            7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3        8.0         uadisbursed)    7.563   180.6
lank Group DOD/total DOD /e                   7.8        8.6        7.8         7.8        8.4     Total dLT debt
I1tD debt service/totsl debt service          4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6        6.9         (lael. u-
lank Group debt *erv./tot,l debt. serv.fe 4.4            5.6        6.7         5.6        7.0        disbursed)       10,85$   259.2
f Short-term capital. mon.tiontitn of geld, allocatIon of SDRt, and errors and o,Issions.
Eq 4ulss change tn net tntern-tional reserves.
Groas reserves of the C;entral Bank ("Internationan  reserve9s, TFS).
d Includes net dirert levest.ent incose.
ft Sxcludes 17c.
lkst Atsa and Pe'fri, gegitn
Vebr,ary 1999



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES'
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of January 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY      Borrower                Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                          264.0   19.5
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage          14.3               0.8
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                              22.0               0.9
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education 1I                               12.7       0.0 /a
939-PH   1973          "                 Ports                            6.1               0.1
950-PH   1973                            Second Highways                 68.0               1.6
984-PH   1974                            Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                 2.7
998-PH   1974                            DFC-DBP I                       50.0               4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                              61.0               3.4
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                         25.0              12.5
1048-PH   1974           "                Shipping                        20.0               9.7
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                30.0               5.4
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                  17.0               6.9
1102-PH   1975          "                Rural Development                25.0              13.6
1120-PH   1975          "                 Small & Medium Industries       30.0               1.1
1154-PH   1976          "                Magat Irrigation                 42.0              19.8
1190-PH   1976                            DFC-DPB II                      75.0               9.3
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                   25.0              14.2
1225-PH   1976          "                 Livestock II                    20.5               7.1
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                50.0              37.3
1272-T-PH 1976                           Manila Urban                     10.0               6.2
1282-PH   1976                           Manila Urban                     22.0              13.6
1269-PH   1976          "                 Second Grain Processing         11.5              10.1
1270-PH   1976                            Second Fisheries                12.0               4.2
1353-PH   1977          "                Third Highways                   95.0              72.9
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation               15.0               9.4
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                25.0              16.8
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                              36.5              22.4
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                40.7
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                18.1
1421-PH   1977          "                 2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.    15.0                13.5
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                      58.0              56.4
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming         8.0               7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC (PDCP)                         30.0              24.9
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                54.8
790-PH   1978                           Rural Infrastructure                    28.0       27.7
S.8-PH   1978           "                Education                        2.0               1.9
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification              60.0              44.6
1555-PH'  1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC-PISO                           15.0               4.8
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                       150.0             102.4
1572-PH   1978                            Industrial Investment III       80.0              60.5
1615-PH   1978          "                Manila Water Supply II           88.0              87.5
1626-PH   1979          "                National Extension               35.0              35.0
1639-PH   1979          "                Magat River Multipurpose         21.0              20.7
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                15.8
1647-PH   1979           "                Second Urban Developnent        32.0              30.4
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                    100.0              99.8
1710-PH   1979          "                 Water Supply II                 16.0              16.0
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                        22.0       22.0
1727-PH   1979           "                Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                25.0
923-PH   1979          "                 Population II                          40.0       40.0
Total                                                              1,970.9  122.2   1.156.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                          158.5
Total now outstanding                                              1,812.4  122.2
Amount sold                                             24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       16.0           8.3     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                            1.804.1  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                  1,065.7   89.7   1.156.4
/a Balance of $43,000 to be disbursed in March 1980.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B.  STATEfENT OF IFC INVES¶MENTS
As of January 31, 1980
Fiscal                                                       Amoun   '$ million)
Year                     Company                           Loan   Eq-ity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5      -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Marivasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Il-ining and Industrial             15.0      -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5         0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -       2.1
1979          General l-Iilling Corporation                  4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        -       0.1      0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              33.1    12.3    45.4
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             44.0     4.4    48.4
Total Undisbursed                              7.6      -       7.6



-30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C.. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in-addition to rice, authorized local governments and the
National Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of- the long construction period for some
of the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September
30, 1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrixation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -                          ANNX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75Z. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cenent, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The-total,project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainaRe components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate.  Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down.  However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subproiect is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow, and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate.
Loan No. 1154      Magat M4ultipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are prpgressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



32
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included.in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system-is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980.  Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of-interest arrears is beginning to emerge. As
of June 30, 1979, principal and interest arrears, under this project had
reached about 12.7% of the portfolio.  The Bank has. assisted DBP with the
development of an intensive action-oriented collection program which will be
further reinforced under the proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit
Project. Thanks to government approval of increased salary scales, DBP has
significantly improved its staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's
organizational structure have been instituted and other organizational
developments are under consideration.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has improved and work is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Prolect; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date:' June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, 'medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the invest-
ment climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to
the smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand
for subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has,



- 33-                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
in consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on
actions to be taken. In the meantime, DBP has forwarded to the Bank
various suggestions concerning the broadening of the project to promote.
better and faster utilization of the funds. The proposals are curently
being examined.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries-Proiect; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2.. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12. 1976;
Closin%<Date: June 30, 1981
Due to. problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan-approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14. 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34% as of August 1979. Force account work is proceeding satis-
factorily. Nine of the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has
taken over eight of them for completion by force account. With the equipment
now on hand, NIA is capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11. 1977: Date of Effectiveness: June 2. 1977;
Closina Date: December 31. 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, recommendations made by the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, are
being implemented, including: the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identified
in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks to the
eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions to include
funds for domestic and foreign training 'of Central Bank staff; more flexible
reporting procedures; improved collection procedures; delegation of responsi-
bility for lending for power tillers to the rural banks; and revised methods
for calculating equity contributions. Repayment performance continues to be
unsatisfactory; however, causes are of a long-term sectoral nature and will be
addressed in that context. Vehicles for Central Bank field staff have been
procured, and contracts awarded for the construction of the Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center and for the Farm Mechanization Study.
Completion of the project is now expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414      Natidn:al Irrigation Systems Improvement Prolect;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
Auaust 9. 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Prolect;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977: Date of Effectiveness:
October 27. 1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities.  Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility sttidies towards i forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to.include policy stuties on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Fazming and Forestry Prolect: $8.0 Hillion
Loan of Januara 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978;  Closing Date:  December 31. 19873
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP has recently eased the collateral terms and
application procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of goverment
funds has delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the
Abra pine plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been
acquired. A gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although
funding could continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at
a moderate rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrijation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15. 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978: Closing Date:  December 31. 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way.  Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals.  A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure: $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21. 1978: Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Design of about 70 km
of village roads has been completed, and the balance is expected to be
completed by April 1980.  Overall progress of' the project is satisfactory.
Loan No.-1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to-a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations.
Diversion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 will
be ready for diversion at the end of March 1980. Excavation on the main
contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the
batching plant and in the trial embankment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project: $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will be applied first in four pilot areas which have
already been designated, to be followed by a further 12 areas by April 1980.
MOA Regional Directors have not yet been appointed; however, the names of
proposed candidates are with the President of the Philippines and a decision
is expected in early 1980. Additional staff appointments are being made but
vehicle purchases are delayed because of the current concern at the highest
level with the energy crisis. All purchases of gasoline-consuming equipment
and vehicles (except for motorcycles) are at present held in abeyance.
However, it is anticipated that the vehicles will be purchased within the
next 2 to 3 months. Funds for this purpose have been allocated in the 1980
budget and vehidle suppliers have been pre-qualified.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979:
Closinz Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



_ 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH  SmaIllFarmer Development Pro1ect through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Gove-rnment's budgetary procedures. The trend in imple-
mentation is improving, although progress will be slower than expected in the
foreseeable future;
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Pro1ect; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980: proposed Date of Effectiveness:
may' 1. 1980: Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Proiect; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays.  These problems have now been largely overcome.  Further major
problems are not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by
.March 1980, except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for
completion around August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years,



37                            ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
with a new Closing Date: bf June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated
at about $189 million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal
estimate, due primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have
been experienced throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048     Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29.
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 19K1
The Closing Date-was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About-5=J of the loan has been disbursed and a further 25%
committed. Loan applications covering the balance of uncommitted funds
are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353     Third Highway Project: $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effec-tiveness: M4arth 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 27% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of
them before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road
maintenance and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress.
All 28 workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of
them, awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisers to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisers to MPH will complete their work by M4arch 1980.
Overall project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates,
but project completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24
months later than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late
start of some critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution
of some of the road construction contracts.



-38-                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Loan No. 1661      Fourthf Highway Project; $100 Mlillion Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness:  June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
underway, utilizing new procedures agreed during loan negotiations.
Proposals for the technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD have been received
from the short-listed consulting firms and evaluation is in process. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is being prepared. Preparatory work for the
continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs begun
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is scheduled to begin within
three months. Seliction of technical assistance and consultants to PIJWTC
for the continuation of the transport planning advisory services, begun
under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PE) is in process. Land acqui-
sition for road construction and workshops is under way. Prequalification
for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224      Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closint Date: June 30. 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to
manage book development, production, and distribution for public elementary
and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 66% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project: $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977: Date of Effectiveness: June 9. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates, but disbursements are about
41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the implementation delays.



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project implementa-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Prolect; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project: $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976: Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95X of the infrastructure
and 1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services com-
ponent are complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have been
designed and contracts tendered with Package I amended and Package II await-
ing Presidential approval.  The project is generally progressing satisfac-
torily with many initial difficulties overcome and lessons learned which
should hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Prolect; $23 Million Loan of
Miay 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: Mlarch 31, 1982.
Well drilling activities are in progress in five Water Districts,
and bids are being evaluated for distribution networks, pumping stations and
reservoirs. The scope of subprojects was revised by LWUA and approved by



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
communities in public hearings.  Difficulties in contracting local firms for
drilling have resulted in delays in the preparation of feasibility studies
in remote areas. LWUA has been requested to present a plan for assistance
to Water Districts in institution-building, and proposing solutions to the
scarcity of local well drilling contractors, including the possibility of
international bidding.
Loan 1615-PE   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978, Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new. re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met. A
tariff increase of 60% was implemented in October, 1978, and MIWSS met the 2%
-rate of return required for 1979.  However, it apepars that they will not be
able to meet the 5% rate of return covenanted for 1980 since the
implementation of an additional tariff increase of 25 centavos, scheduled
for October 1979, has been postponed (because of the overall impact of
inflationary pressures resulting from recent oil price increases) and the
completion of the treatment plant is behind schedule.
Loan No. 1647-PH  Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in M4anila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710.PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



4  -                            ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and S10.0 Million Credit
Credit S.  296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1. 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to- June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power: S61.0 Million Loan bf July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness:  November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: Juie 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
($92 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power ProJect: $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Procurement has been slow, with the result that disbursements have
been behind schedule. Although the Bank waived the 8% rate of return
requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of return of 7% and expected to
achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant previously owned and operated by
Meralco. It is unlikely that NPC achieved an 8% rate of return in 1979
since costs, especially of fuel, were higher than forecast. Plans for
establishing a training center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have
been deferred.



- 42. -
ANNEX I I
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547      Rural.Electrification; 360.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late
1979 following receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are
expected before June 1980.  NEA's financial performance and position in 1977
and 1978 was good, and steps are being taken by NEA to strengthen its
monitoring of the financial performance of the cooperatives, especially
their compliance with the Government's financial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan-of June 12, 1.74; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9. 1974: Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been used by
DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974: Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development: $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of S2.3 million has
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.



_ 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1190      Industrial'Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date-of Effectiveness: April 6, 19-:
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds from this loan for small and medium
industries, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed
on M4arch 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, whi:ch were initially much slower
than expected due to a slowdown-of investment in the industrial sector as a
whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed
by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9. 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31. 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of January 31, 1980 commitments
under the loan amounted to $12.6 million. The project progress is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO.  As of January 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.2 mi'lion.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to $45.8 million as of January 31, 1980. In addition, as of the
same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



-.44-
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Loan No. 1727      Secdnd Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29. 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9. 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose
$24.5 million was provided under the loan. Loan utilization is expected to
begin soon. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population: $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30. 1980
As of October 1979, 186 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed,. 28 were under construction and 5 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 91f% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart
funds. While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and
reallocation of funds it is likely that there will be a six-to twelve-
month delay in project completion.  Following the disbanding on December 31,
1979, of the administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was
appointed for both this and the second project.  This action is expected to
speed up significantly the completion of this first project. In January
1979 the project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and
equipment for service delivery; training; information, education and
communication campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second
population project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The
total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly
to price increases not materializing as forecast. The management situation
in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional
analysis of the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of
this study, if implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care
delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 . 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
tation started on January 1, 1980 when funds were made available from MOH and
POPCOM. Preparatory arrangements for training components of the project are
proceeding satisfactorily, and information, education and communications
activities are being developed successfully at POPCOM and HOH. The 1980
work plan has been reviewed and found satisfactory. Generally, overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
MANILA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 15 months
(b) The project was prepared by MWSS with the assistance of consultants;
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1979;
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: June 1979;
(e) Completion of negotiations: February 8, 1980;
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
A Bank mission will visit Manila in June, 1980 to review
institutional arrangements.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The following special conditions are incorporated in the Loan
and Project Agreements:
(a) A condition of disbursement for the works in providing the Dagupan
and Pandacan sewer collection systems would be the execution of a
loan agreement between MWSS and ADB for constructing the sewerage
component (part A) of the project (para. 53);
(b) MWSS would carry out an annual review of its financial requirements
in order to determine the amount of equity contribution from Govern-
ment, amount of local borrowing and tariff levels for water supply
and wastewater disposal, and would submit such reviews to the Bank
no later than October 1 each year, starting October 1, 1980 (para.
58).



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) MWSS would implement a waste water disposal charge of 10%
of the water bill by January 1, 1981 (para. 59);
(d) MWSS would take the necessary steps to set and maintain tariffs
that would produce revenues, for its water operations, to
achieve an annual rate of return of 5% in 1981 and 8% thereafter
(para. 60); and
(e) MWSS would evaluate the possibility of creating new sources of
revenue and by March 1, 1981 submit a report for the Bank's comment
(para. 61).
2.        The following are special conditions of effectiveness:
(a) An agreement between MWSS and MKC defining responsibilities for
the combined sewer construction program (para. 45);
(b) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
MWSS (para. 53); and
(c) Implementation by MWSS of a 25 centavo per cubic meter increase in
its water tariffs (para. 60).



TLl
m   I AI                                                                       -
-,                                          0~~~~~~~;7
METPOPOLI AN -MANILA
~SEWERAGE~ AN4D SANITATLON PROJECT
IA-11  I-  A-A  I  HCA                       7
A,  S,t-~ ~ ~
ST                       1/                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUJTNU
S-'Ch-                                       C                                                                     *,-~0
0-h- SO 0C 600-0
TV~~~~~~~                                                                   
C-b -d                                                                  -                             _____



