Document-of
FILE COPY                     The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.p-2095-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
IRON ORE BENEFICIATION AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
June 1, 1977
! This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      a     US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                -     LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -     US$1.70
1 US Dollar                      LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -     US$1.56
1 US Dollar                -     LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)            US$1.47
1 US Dollar                -     LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -     US$1.43
1 US Dollar                      LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
BOF       - Basic oxygen furnace
GODE      - Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt
HADISOLB  - Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
IRSID     - Institut de Recherches de la Siderurgie Francaise, France
ISC       - General Executive Organization for the Iron and Steel Complex
M&LT      - Medium- and long-term
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Iron Ore Beneficiation and Engineering Project
Loan Summary
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:        Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB)
Amount:             US$2.5 million
Term:               Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years of grace,
through semi-annual installments at 8.2 percent
per annum. The loan would be refunded under any
later loan or credit the Bank/IDA might make for
the iron ore beneficiation project itself.
On-lending Terms:   US$0.7 million of the loan proceeds will be onlent to
HADISOLB on the same terms as those received by the
Arab Republic of Egypt.
Project             The project would finance the foreign costs of a feasi-
Description:       bility study and of the detailed engineering for an iron
ore beneficiation project and a diagnostic study for the
state-owned Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB)
which is the sole consumer of the ore. Specifically,
the project would include the following:
(i)  to carry out a feasibility study to identify a
beneficiation project for Bahariya iron ore and
determine its technical and economic feasibility;
(ii)  to carry out a diagnostic study designed to identify
(a) a rehabilitation and balancing project for
HADISOLB's productive, ancillary and maintenance
facilities; (b) a program for strengthening HADISOLB's
management and improving its operations; and (c) a
program for improving the facilities of transport-
ing iron ore from the Bahariya area to HADISOLB's
plant and for improving other infrastructural facili-
ties such as the supply of power, natural gas and
water; and
(iii)  to initiate the detailed engineering work, including
the preparation of tender documents, for an iron ore
beneficiation project, provided that the studies under
(i) and (ii) above show this project to be viable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimates:     The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes, is
as follows:
-----(US$ million)------
Local    Foreign    Total
(1)  Beneficiation study                 .15       1.15     1.30
(2)  Diagnostic studies                  .10        .70      .80
(3) Detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents      .10       .50      .60
(4)  Contingencies                       .15        .15      .30
Total                           .50       2.50     3.00
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local   Foreign     Total
Bank Loan                         -       2.5       2.5
Government                      0.5         -       0.5
Total                      0.5      2.5        3.0
Consultants:        Five consulting firms have submitted proposals for the
beneficiation study (about 110 man-months). A contract
is expected to be signed by mid-June 1977. Proposals
for the diagnostic study (about 100 man-months) have
been submitted on May 18, 1977. A contract is expected
to be signed by end-July. Detailed engineering (about
80 man-months) can begin once the preliminary results
of the beneficiation and the diagnostic study have
become available. The cost per man-month for the two
studies and for the engineering will thus be $8,650,
$7,000 and $6,250, respectively.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN IRON ORE BENEFICIATION AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt, for the equivalent of US$2.5 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a feasibility study and of the detailed
engineering for an iron ore beneficiation project and of a diagnostic study
for a rehabilitation and balancing scheme for the state-owned Egyptian Iron
and Steel Company (HADISOLB) which is the sole consumer of the ore. The loan
would have a term of ten years, including two years of grace with interest at
8.2 percent per annum. Out of the proceeds of the proposed loan, $0.7 million
would be onlent to HADISOLB on the same terms as those received by the Arab
Republic of Egypt. The loan would be refinanced under any later loan or credit
that the Bank Group might make for the iron ore beneficiation project itself.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/ 2/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June 1976 and its report is under
preparation. Updating missions visited Egypt in October 1976 and January
1977; the findings of these missions are incorporated in this report. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities. Real
GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   All currency conversions are at the official rate of $2.56 = LE 1.
2/   Part I of this report is identical to Part I of the recent President's
Report for the Regional Electrification project, distributed to the Exe-
cutive Directors on May 27, 1977.



- 2 -
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort
to accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisaged (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises, (ii) liberalization of the private sector, (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment, and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
which are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In
particular, steps have been taken to remove some of the restrictions on private
business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to encourage
foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are also linked to the
major immediate weaknesses of the economy: the large deficit in the balance
of payments, the low level of government savings, and low efficiency in public
sector enterprises.
6.        The present government was formed in November 1976 following elec-
tions to the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of
candidates representing diverse political views was offered to the voters.
The Cabinet was strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime Minister
for Financial and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic
policy-making, while President Sadat directed that economic questions should
be in the forefront of the new Cabinet's tasks.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.   Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 3.2 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 9.8 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity through the provision of greater aid-financed inputs,
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. The high rate of growth for 1975 was in part due to the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is ex-
cluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning) at
8.0 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicate that the economy
continued to expand. The estimated rate of growth of 6.1 percent, however,
reflects increasing capacity constraints in some sectors.
8.        Investment.   Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
1/   Ministry of Planning.



- 3 -
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973
to $2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable
replenishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973
period. During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign
resources, investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation.
In 1975 tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Public enterprises (although
hampered by Government-imposed pricing policies) and social insurance and
pension funds contributed an additional 8 percent and 5 percent of GNP, re-
spectively. Total public revenues reached 38 percent of GNP, a major effort
for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,830 1/ million (about
15 percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic
consumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign
financed--the Emergency Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget
eased over this period. Although it increased in absolute terms--from $1,100
million in 1973 to $1,485 million in 1976--defense spending, as a proportion
of total current expenditures, declined from about 39 percent to about 28 per-
cent in this period. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by
the Government (education, health, etc.) and other general expenditures have
risen at approximately the same rate as GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined from 4 per-
cent to less than 1 percent of GNP between 1973 and 1975. However, preliminary
data for 1976 show an increase in public sector savings. As of May 1, 1976,
a number of subsidies were abolished, saving $140 million. A decline in inter-
national prices also helped cut the actual subsidy bill for 1976 to $1,600
million.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 16 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 42 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 25 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
index in 1975 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher. The
index for 1976 is not available, but indications are that the rate of infla-
tion was comparable to that in 1975.
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



- 4 -
13.       Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of com-
modity exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of
improved international prices) export earnings fell well short of imports.
Indeed, the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due to in-
creases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. Egypt's
export receipts were influenced by declines in the physical production of
certain field crops (particularly cotton) due to a shift towards more profit-
able cash crops (fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic demand for
exportable products. As a result, there was a decline in both the value and
quantity of some important exports.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $2,480 million in 1975.
15.       In 1976 the deficit was reduced significantly, although at $1,390
million it was still high. Preliminary estimates show export earnings in-
creased by about 16 percent, due mainly to increased receipts from the Suez
Canal and to oil exports. Imports of goods and services fell by about 13
percent, in large part due to a decision to abandon the second tranche of the
1976 investment program and to restrict imports of intermediate and capital
goods. While there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods as well,
the smaller deficit must have been partly purchased at the cost of Egypt's
future growth.
16.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1974-1976
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1974 the deficit could be fully met
only by a substantial increase in short-term borrowing, including the use of
banking facilities. Higher levels of concessional assistance enabled a re-
duction in the use of these facilities in 1975, but lower aid flows in the
following year led Egypt to increase the use of this type of credit by over
$200 million to a total of $1.45 billion.
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities of the projects into which
they are channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the
growth of consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate
infrastructure (particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications);
(iii) greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on com-
pleting ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of
prices (including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move
towards increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented
and employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial
capacity more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and



- 5 -
encouraging small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb
the growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan the framework of which has been completed. The plan is presently
under preparation.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.     The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in about 1980--
there is then likely to be a substantial increase in revenues; (iii) Egypt's
improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at
one million barrels a day by 1980-82, substantially exceed domestic require-
ments; (iv) considerably increased earnings from tourism--these reached an
estimated $383 million in 1976; (v) the possibility of using agricultural
land more intensely with greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an
increasing flow of remittances ($445 million in 1976) from Egyptians working
abroad. 1/
19.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take 5-10 years to achieve a
significant restructuring of the economy.
20.       Recent Policy Actions.   Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel ex-
change market has been successively widened (the last widening took place in
March 1977), to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and
all imports except basic mass consumption commodities and also excluding Suez
Canal revenues; (ii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated
to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii) the attractiveness of the
parallel market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be
imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv) parallel market imports
were valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates in-
creased; and (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised rigid control
over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher
1/   Additional substantial remittances came in the form of "own-exchange"
imports.



- 6 -
councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.
The Government submitted a letter of intent to the IMF on March 4, proposing
to undertake further economic reform. On April 20, 1977, the Fund approved a
standby arrangement for the Government authorizing provision up to the equiv-
alent of SDR 125 million (approximately $145 million) over the next 12 months.
Drawings under the standby arrangement will be closely monitored and depend on
Egypt remaining within a series of quarterly credit ceilings designed to limit
the increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system to $1,536 million
in 1977.
External Assistance
21.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
22.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Western medium- and long-term (M&LT) capital
assistance began to grow after October 1973. However, because of the slow
disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy repayments due on
past loans, net M&LT transfers from OECD countries to Egypt were initially
small. Commitments from the OECD countries have, however, led to a strong
aid pipeline, and it is estimated that there were substantial inflows in 1976
which should continue in 1977.
23.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$210 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
24.       It is estimated that in 1977 Egypt needs to import goods, including
capital goods in the order of $5.0 billion, in part to compensate for the
severe reductions in imports in 1976. While prospects for increases in re-
ceipts from exports are good, a current account deficit of approximately $1.86
billion is forecast; in addition, a reduction in short-term debt of at least
$700 million (including paying off $450 million in arrears as of December 31,
1976) is desirable, amortization of M&LT debt will require $840 million and
there will be a reduction in bilateral balances of about $200 million. Thus
total foreign exchange requirements will be about $3.6 billion. Taking into



account estimated aid disbursements of $1,470 million 1/, and estimated sup-
pliers' credits, private transfers and foreign investment of $480 million
Egypt would still have a foreign exchange financing gap for 1977 of approxi-
mately $1,650 million. A major step towards meeting this gap was accomplished
recently. In early April 1977, GODE agreed to provide additional financial
support to Egypt in the amount of $1.475 billion to be made available in 1977
as a loan to the Central Bank of Egypt in stages, while Egypt carries out its
declared policies to correct its balance of payments disequilibrium.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12. At the meeting the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed in detail the most important problems
confronting the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and
its needs for external assistance. Delegates, while appreciating the magni-
tude of the task with which the Egyptian Government was confronted recognized
that the structural changes undertaken by the Government would take a number
of years to complete. They felt that the Government was taking energetic
steps towards accelerating growth and expressed their support of the Govern-
ment's statement on its development strategy and of its efforts to direct
future development within the framework of an integrated plan to be completed
this year. Delegates accepted the World Bank's estimate that Egypt will re-
quire disbursements of $3.6 billion in 1977, of which about $1.65 billion will
have to come from new commitments. As the result of the commitment by GODE
and an increase in the commodity aid portion of US assistance, it is likely
that the bulk of the foreign exchange gap in 1977 will be covered. However,
current projections of foreign exchange earnings and requirements indicate
that in the period 1978-80, Egypt will require external assistance of about
$2.8 billion annually in disbursements (compared with $3.6 billion for 1977).
About $1.6-1.8 billion of disbursements will come from existing commitments
leaving a gap of about $1.0 to 1.2 billion to be covered by new commitments.
A large part of this aid will be required in quick-disbursing form, i.e., as
cash or commodity aid.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million. This was almost
double the amount at end-1974 of $2,760 million. During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,670 million. Of this, official M&LT loans amounted
1/   This amount includes among others disbursements from (i) a $250 million
cash loan made in 1976 by the Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt
(GODE), which is a $2.0 billion fund created by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE
and Qatar to participate in financing Egypt's development program; (ii)
a Eurodollar loan of $250 million from a consortium of American and
European banks, guaranteed by the Gulf Organization; and (iii) M&LT
project aid estimated $435 million (including $185 million from bila-
teral agreement countries). It excludes the additional assistance to be
provided by the Gulf Organization-mentioned at the end of paragraph 24.



- 8 -
to $3,043 million (of which $731 million was in clearing currencies). Another
$1,942 million was in convertible currency deposits and $685 million in sup-
pliers credits. Major creditors were Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu
Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 2.7 percent of the total. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $680 million
in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 26 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain resched-
uling of service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on con-
cessional terms, the continued high level of short-term indebtedness continued
to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers' credit facilities out-
standing (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,297 million at the end of
December 1976 of which $1,447 million were disbursed. The liquidity require-
ments of this type of indebtedness created severe problems for Egypt in 1976
when arrears in repayments were reported.
28.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 20
above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's economic
situation and international environment. The situation however requires con-
tinuing review and further action. At the Government's request, the Bank has
arranged to review developments in the economy by economic missions three or
four times a year.
29.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about
$2.8 billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, includ-
ing a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing M&LT debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated at 25 percent in
1976 and is expected to decline to 19 percent in 1980. In these circumstances
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in
addition to the IDA assistance which Eygpt merits on the ground of its poverty
and difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
30.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's thirtieth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $867.0 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of April 30, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
31.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt
is to support its development program through lending for (i) increasing
utilization of available productive capacity, (ii) projects which would
increase production and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for imports,
particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sectors, (iii) projects



-9-
aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure necessary to facilitate
development, and (iv) selected social sectors, namely population, education
and urban development. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects has
been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange from other donors for
most of these projects and by important institution building. Besides the
technical assistance included under Bank/ IDA projects, the Bank is Executing
Agent for the National Power Sector Survey and the Master Plan for Water
Resource Development and Use, both financed by UNDP.
32.       The projects financed to date have been in support of the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future
lending is following the same line. A pipeline of projects for possible
future lending is also being developed, comprising additional projects in the
water supply and sewerage, education, population and power sectors, in agri-
culture, including drainage, and industry. Projects under study in new fields
include urban and rural development and the tourism sector.
33.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1976 to represent about 5
percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow. The Bank/IDA share of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed was about 3 percent at the end of
1976. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt outstanding
and disbursed (excluding military debts) is estimated to reach about 7 percent
in 1980, of which the Bank share would be about 4 percent. It is estimated
that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent
about 3 percent of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
34.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discuss-
ing several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
35.       Industry has become a large and significant sector of the Egyptian
economy.  The share of manufacturing and mining in GDP increased from some
7 percent in 1946, to about 22 percent in 1975 mostly due to the manufacturing
sector. Industry currently employs more than one million persons or some 13
percent of the civilian labor force. Industry's share in commodity exports
has increased from about 7 percent in about 1954 to nearly 50 percent in 1975.
As the weight of industry in Egypt's economic structure increased in the 1950s
and 1960s, its relative contribution to GDP growth has tended to become more
and more significant. Even though reliable data are scarce and fragmented,
-they suggest that industry is likely to have contributed some 25 percent of
the increment in GDP at constant prices in recent years. As limits to growth
in the agricultural sector are already apparent and becoming more so, the need
to provide productive employment opportunities in the industrial sector has
become even more essential to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population,
including migrants from rural to urban areas.



- 10 -
36.       Egypt's industrial sector has tended to be inward looking.    Up to
now its main feature has been to produce for the local market. Promotion of
import substitution has prevailed both under the private enterprise system,
which ended in the late 1950s, and under the planned economy dominated by the
public sector of the 1960s and 1970s.
37.       In 1975 industries producing basic consumer goods (textiles, food,
beverages and cigarettes) accounted for about 46 percent of industrial gross
value added. Intermediate products (building materials, fertilizers, chemicals
and metals) accounted for about 45 percent. The capital goods industry (machin-
ery, implements, tools and productive equipment) is very small, accounting for
only about 9 percent of gross value added.
38.       In 1975 about 75 percent of gross industrial output, $4278 million 1/
out of a total of $5806 million, was produced by public sector enterprises.
There are about 130 public sector companies and most of them are large, aver-
aging more than 4,000 employees and gross sales of about $31 million. The
total public sector has about 550,000 employees and has been responsible,
until recently, for over 90 percent of industrial investment. However, in
1975 private industrial investment had increased to over 15 percent of the
total. Private firms exist in all subsectors of industry but they are par-
ticularly significant in the food and textile subsectors. In 1975 they
produced most of the output in leather and woodwork. Although the average
size of private firm is increasing, most employ fewer than 50 workers.
39.       The gross value added in public and private manufacturing grew at
an annual rate of 2 to 4 percent through 1973. Since then, in response to
Government-sponsored liberalization policies and a greater availability of
foreign exchange, the rate of growth in 1975 was almost 12 percent. Given
Egypt's short-term economic difficulties, this has been a remarkable achieve-
ment.
40.       Total manufacturing exports were $591 million in 1975, having grown
from $348 million in 1972. Private sector exports nearly tripled in the same
period, reaching $151 million, 10 percent of the total. Over 90 percent of
private sector industrial exports were to countries with which Egypt has
bilateral trade agreements primarily because of trade agreements and the
relative absence of incentive to export to convertible currency areas, while
about 65 percent of public sector exports were directed towards bilateral
trade countries. The rate of increases in exports projected for 1977 is not
expected to continue in the short term. The main reasons for this are (i)
rising domestic demand, which diverts potential exports to the home market,
and (ii) a reduction in export orders from Eastern Europe which in part is a
response to the Government's policy to promote production and exports towards
1/   Values of domestic production are expressed in US dollars throughout
the report for ease of comparison. These were converted at the official
exchange rate, i.e., LE 1 = $2.56. Consequently the absolute value of
domestic product is somewhat overstated.



- 11 -
convertible currency countries. Actual exports in 1976 to bilateral trade
countries decreased because of delays in reaching agreement on the trade
protocol with the USSR. A new trade protocol was signed on March 29, 1977.
41.       Egypt's 1976-80 Plan calls for gross industrial output to continue
to grow at 12 percent per annum. Industry is expected to absorb 26 percent of
total investment, a major share being allocated to the completion of ongoing
projects. Allocations for renewal and replacement of equipment in existing
industries had been modest. Prior to 1976, public sector industrial enter-
prises were closely controlled by the six general organizations (textiles,
food, chemicals, engineering, metallurgical and building materials indus-
tries). The general organizations, acting for the Minister of Industry,
controlled investment production targets, pricing and other policies. At
the end of 1975 they were dissolved in accordance with Government policy of
decentralizing decision-making and encouraging efficiency. They were replaced
by higher councils, one for each subsector, which suggest strategy and have
staff, rather than line, responsibilities. The new structure has given
greater freedom and responsibility to management in public sector companies
especially in their day-to-day operations, although their investment program,
pricing policy and employment policy are still subject to central control.
42.       In addition to the dissolution of the general organizations in 1975,
the Government has taken a number of steps to improve the investment climate
of the industrial sector. The first major changes were announced in October
1973, when (i) foreign trade was officially liberalized, (ii) the parallel
exchange market was introduced (which involved a partial devaluation coin-
ciding with the announcement of an open-door policy), and (iii) the enactment
of Law 43 took place with the main aim of encouraging foreign investment in
Egypt.
The Iron and Steel Sector
43.       As in most of the other industrial sectors, the existing companies
in the iron and steel sector were nationalized in 1961. Until 1975 they
were incorporated in the Egyptian General Organization for Metallurgical
Industries, which as all other general organizations has since been replaced
by a higher council (see para. 41 above). By far the most important of the
companies in the sector is the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB),
the beneficiary under the proposed project. HADISOLB was established as a
state-owned company in Helwan near Cairo in the second half of the 1950's
when iron and steel-making facilities with a design capacity of 300,000 tons
of raw steel per annum, based on the blast furnace/Thomas converter process
route were constructed. In 1967 Egypt concluded a project agreement with
the USSR under which the USSR undertook to expand the capacity of the Helwan
plant to 1.5 million tons of raw steel per annum, using the blast furnace/
basic oxygen furnace (BOF) process route. This expansion phase of the iron
and steel works is expected to be completed before the end of 1977. With a
work force of about 22,000 HADISOLB employs about 55 percent of the labor
force in Egypt's iron and steel sector. It is the country's only integrated



- 12 -
iron and steel producer. Total capital investments in HADISOLB exceed $1
billion. HADISOLB produces raw steel and finished products such as plates,
hot and cold rolled strip and sheet, heavy, medium and light sections, and
rod and bar. Its management has, however, not been strengthened to cope
with expanded operations of the plant. Also, it has never had an adequately
staffed engineering department which has seriously handicapped the company in
identifying and finding solutions to its many problems. The proposed project
is designed to correct some of these problems.
44.       Another important institution in the iron and steel sector is the
General Executive Organization for the Iron and Steel Complex (ISC), an
agency within the Ministry of Industry. ISC, which has a staff of qualified
geologists, engineers and financial analysts is responsible for the civil
and structural engineering contracting and all related infrastructure for
the ongoing expansion of HADISOLB. The USSR is responsible for the supply
of the plant, equipment and associated engineering works . Upon completion
of construction, the operation of the plant is to be handed over to HADISOLB.
Previous Bank Lending in the Iron and Steel Sector
45.       The proposed loan would be the first Bank lending to the iron and
steel sector in Egypt. However the first Bank/IDA Agricultural and Industrial
Imports Loan and Credit of 1974, helped to finance a study of the metallurgical
sector now being conducted. The preliminary findings of the study -- the final
report is expected later this year -- strongly support technical assistance to
the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company, the beneficiary under the proposed loan,
to enable it to produce at a level closer to its design capacity. Present pro-
duction does not exceed 50 percent of capacity. Such assistance is included
under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       Egypt's iron and steel sector is among the most important of the
country's industrial subsectors. It provides crucial inputs to other eco-
nomic activities particularly at a time when construction activities have
reached a new high. In 1975, 60 percent of total iron and steel consumption
was accounted for by the building construction industry. However, domestic
production of iron and steel products falls far short of domestic needs.
While total consumption amounted to over 1 million tons in 1975, only
55 percent of it was met by domestic production and the remaining 45 percent
through imports. Unless domestic production can rapidly and economically be
increased, Egypt's dependence upon imports of iron and steel products will
continue to rise which in turn will place a heavy burden on Egypt's scarce
foreign exchange resources.
47.       Egypt's high imports of iron and steel products are in large part
due to the problems faced by HADISOLB (see para. 43 above). Upon completion



- 13 -
of the ongoing expansion phase scheduled for end-1977, it will have a design
capacity of 1.5 million tons of raw steel per year. HADISOLB does not expect
to reach this level since its production in 1976 was only about 700,000 tons.
The major reason for the low level of HADISOLB's output is the quality of
the Bahariya iron ore, which contains 52 percent of iron but also a fairly
high amount of silica, sodium chloride and phosphorus. The Bahariya iron ore
accounts for about 85 percent of the company's ore supply, the balance being
supplied from the Aswan hematite ore deposit. Unless corrected, the Bahariya
ore quality will continue to be a major obstacle for the company's more
efficient operation and for the planned increase of its output of steel
products. Difficulties also arise from transporting the ore from the mine
to the plant on a 350 km rail line which is subject to sand storms and other
related complications. Other problems which confront HADISOLB are those many
industrial enterprises in Egypt are facing: (i) a general shortage of inputs
and spare parts due to scarcity of foreign exchange and delays in receiving
essential supplies, (ii) unsuitable equipment and lack of funds to maintain
or replace it, and (iii) organizational and managerial weaknesses in operating
the plant. Because of the company's predominant position as the major supplier
of iron and steel products for all sectors of the economy it is important that
these problems be corrected.
48.       The iron ore beneficiation study to be financed under the proposed
project is designed to find a method of treating the ore so that it can be
processed more efficiently in the blast furnace. Test work carried out to
date indicates that the likely flowsheet will involve grinding of the ore
followed by high intensity wet magnetic separation of the hematite from the
silica, salt and phosphorus in the ore. Should the study determine that
the ore can be beneficiated economically, HADISOLB will be able to increase
significantly its production--while reducing the import of iron and steel
products--and in so doing, among others, reduce the coke rate in the blast
furnace and maintenance of the iron-making facilities. The diagnostic study
also to be financed under the proposed project is designed to help correct
some of the other problems mentioned above. The net result of the studies
and the implementation of its recommendations will be substantial savings to
the Egyptian economy. Pending the preliminary findings of the iron ore
beneficiation study, the Bank is tentatively planning to appraise a project
for the construction of an iron ore beneficiation plant during FY78 and to
present it to the Executive Directors in the first half of FY79.
49.       The proposed identification and engineering project was appraised
in February and March 1977. Negotiations were held in Cairo from May 6 to 10,
1977. The Egyptian Government was represented by Dr. Wagih Shindy, First
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation and Mr. A. Kamal,
Executive President, ISC and HADISOLB by Dr. Mourad, Chairman of the Board.
A Loan and Project Summary is attached. There is no separate appraisal report
for this project.
Project Description and Purpose
50.       The objectives of the project are:



- 14 -
(i) to carry out a feasibility study to identify a beneficiation
project for Bahariya iron ore and determine its technical
and economic feasibility;
(ii) to carry out a diagnostic study designed to identify (a) a
rehabilitation and balancing project for HADISOLB's produc-
tive, ancillary and maintenance facilities;(b) a program for
strengthening HADISOLB's management and improving its opera-
tions; and (c) a program for improving the facilities of
transporting iron ore from the Bahariya area to HADISOLB's
plant and for improving other infrastructural facilities such
as the supply of power, natural gas and water; and
(iii) to initiate the detailed engineering work, including the
preparation of tender documents, for an iron ore beneficiation
project, provided that the studies under (i) and (ii) above
show this project to be viable.
Iron Ore Beneficiation Study
51.       As mentioned above (para. 43) the first phase of the iron and steel-
works at Helwan was constructed in the second half of the 1950's. The iron
ore for the operation is obtained from the Aswan hematite ore deposit, which
contains about 45 percent iron and 1.1 percent phosphorus but is now nearing
exhaustion. To supply the expanded iron-making facilities being built on
the basis of a project agreement with the USSR, a new iron ore deposit--the
El-Gedida deposit in the Bahariya Oasis area in the Western Desert-- was
opened up in 1971. The El-Gedida deposit has a reserve of 120 million tons
of ore and forms part of the larger Bahariya ore body, which contains some
250 million tons in the proven, probable and possible categories. As men-
tioned above, the ore in this deposit contains 52 percent iron, but also 9.6
percent silica, 1.38 percent sodium chloride and 0.30 percent phosphorus. The
mine was fully developed as part of the expansion phase of the iron and steel-
works; there is a recently established township at the mine and a 350-km long
railroad and road link the mine with the works at Helwan.
52.       The Bahariya ore body is Egypt's principal iron ore reserve with
a good iron content. HADISOLB, which operates the mine, has made substantial
investments in the production plant and infrastructure of the El-Gedida mine,
where about 500 jobs have been created. The continued and improved utiliza-
tion of the Bahariya ore would keep HADISOLB independent of imported ore. How-
ever, the sodium chloride content of the Bahariya ore subjects the sintering
machines at Helwan to severe corrosive attack and causes choking of the sinter
bed, while the alkali content remaining in the sinter causes difficult and
inefficient blast furnace operations. Moreover, the hot metal contains a
large enough amount of phosphorus to necessitate a two-slag steelmaking
practice which substantially reduces the effective capacity of the BOF steel-
making shop. A beneficiation project is therefore the best means of both
providing HADISOLB with ore of suitable quality and of keeping the El-Gedida
mine in operation. Before such a project can be implemented, however, a
beneficiation flowsheet has to be developed and the technical and economic
feasibility of beneficiating Bahariya iron ore determined.



- 15 -
53.       This study would complement earlier, more limited studies prepared
by the Egyptian Government, the Soviet Union, and the Institut de Recherches
de la Siderurgie Francaise (IRSID) of France. IRSID completed in December
1976 an investigation as to whether Bahariya ore can be beneficiatd to produce
a high grade concentrate suitable, after pelletizing, for direct reduction.
The Yugoslav Metallurgical Institute is currently undertaking laboratory
scale tests aimed at producing a beneficiated blast furnace feed. The results
of these studies will provide a valuable input into the proposed iron ore
beneficiation study.
54.       The Egyptian Government has now instructed ISC (see para. 44 above)
to carry out an iron ore beneficiation study which would complement and com-
plete the studies mentioned above. Because of the severe difficulties
encountered in the start-up of the expansion facilities, both the iron ore
beneficiation project and a possible rehabilitation and balancing project of
the installed production facilities which might emerge from the diagnostic
study (see para. 56 below) will have to be implemented before the plant can
be expected to reach its designed performance levels. In the course of prep-
aring the beneficiation study the optimum location of a beneficiation plant
will have to be determined as well as the availability of water required for
the operation of the plant and the disposal of its effluents.
55.       In January 1977 nine prequalified firms, all of which are opera-
ting iron ore mining companies and have experience in the highly specialized
area of iron ore beneficiation, were invited in consultation with the Bank
to submit proposals for undertaking the beneficiation study. The proposals
were invited on the basis of terms of reference agreed upon between ISC,
HADISOLB and the Bank. Contract negotiations with three consultants whose
proposals have received the best evaluation have taken place in mid-May.
The work schedule agreed upon with the Bank calls for the successful consultant
to start work in the field in mid-June 1977. The study is expected to take
some 9 to 10 months to complete.
Diagnostic Study
56.       In addition to the problems related to the low quality of the iron
ore, the solution of which is the subject of the iron ore beneficiation study,
HADISOLB at the present time is plagued by numerous other difficulties both
within and outside the company's control. Some of the principal problems
within HADISOLB's control are the low standard of operation and maintenance
of the plant and equipment, some of which is unsuitable and the organization
and management of the company. The major problems outside the company's
control are difficulties in transporting the iron ore from the mine to the
plant, the sulphur content of the coke, and the Government controlled prices
of finished steel products. A number of studies financed by bilateral sources
have looked or are looking into various aspects of HADISOLB's problems, but no
comprehensive investigation and analysis of the overall performance has been
carried out. There is therefore a real danger that HADISOLB may not derive
the full benefit expected from the implementation of the recommendations of
these studies, unless an overall diagnostic study of the company is carried



- 16 -
out to coordinate and complement the work of these ongoing studies. This
review should identify (i) a rehabilitation and balancing scheme for the
existing facilities, including infrastructure and especially a solution for
the transport problem, (ii) short-term solutions to increase HADISOLB's
effective capacity until the beneficiation project and rehabilitation and
balancing scheme have been completed; and (iii) a program of technical and
managerial assistance designed to improve the company's organization, opera-
tions, and control.
57.       HADISOLB will carry out the diagnostic study and develop a master
plan for the actions required to enable it to reach its nominal production
capacity. In March 1977 HADISOLB, in consultation with the Bank, invited
five consulting firms to submit proposals for the diagnostic study on the
basis of terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank. Proposals were re-
ceived in mid-May and HADISOLB intends to sign the contract with the success-
ful consultant by end-July. The study is expected to take about one year to
complete. Because of the importance of the study for HADISOLB's efficient
operation, HADISOLB agreed that until the completion of the diagnostic study
it will exchange views with the Government and the Bank before entering into
any commitments for major capital investment (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement).
Detailed Engineering and Preparation of Tender Documents
58.       The third element to be financed by the proposed loan would be the
foreign exchange cost of the detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents for the iron ore beneficiation project, which are to be identified
by the beneficiation study. The Government agreed that detailed engineering
and preparation of tender documents would not begin until the respective
preliminary findings of the beneficiation and diagnostic studies have been
reviewed with the Bank and a mutually acceptable course of action has been
determined including the financing of a proposed iron ore beneficiation plant
(Section 3.02 (d) (ii) of the Loan Agreement).
59.       Proposals to undertake the detailed engineering and to prepare the
tender documents for the iron ore beneficiation project will be invited from
a list of qualified iron and steel industry consultants once the preliminary
findings of the two preparatory studies are available and have been agreed
upon between the Government, HADISOLB and the Bank. This is expected to occur
by late December 1977. Completion of the beneficiation and diagnostic studies
and the start of engineering of the beneficiation project will therefore over-
lap. Thus, the engineering phase of the beneficiation project and the prepara-
tion of tender documents will almost have been completed by the fall of 1978
when the Bank's appraisal of a possible future iron ore beneficiation project
is expected to be completed. The possible iron ore benefication project is
likely to include some of the items identified by the diagnostic study such
as minor balancing and rehabilitation works at HADISOLB's plant. If the
diagnostic study should identify a major balancing and rehabilitation project,
the detailed engineering for such a project would also be included under the
proposed iron ore beneficiation project. Remedial works related to the problem
of transporting the iron ore from the mine to the plant could also be included
under this project or under a proposed railways project.



- 17 -
Cost Estimates
60.       The estimated costs of the project, net of taxes, are as follows:
-------(US$ million)-------
Local     Foreign      Total
(1)  Beneficiation study                  .15       1.15        1.30
(2)  Diagnostic studies                   .10        .70         .80
(3) Detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents    .10        .50         .60
(4)  Contingencies                        .15        .15         .30
Total                                 .50      2.50        3.00
The foreign cost of the beneficiation study represents primarily the salary
of the foreign experts (about 110 man-months) and the cost of pilot and
semi-industrial scale beneficiation trials. These costs have been established
on the basis of the two technically highest ranked proposals. Contract awards
are expected by mid-June. While proposals for the diagnostic study are to be
reviewed in Egypt by mid-May, the price envelopes will not have been opened
until after this project proposal has been considered by the Bank's Executive
Directors. As explained above, proposals for detailed engineering will only
be invited when the preliminary results of the two preparatory studies become
available. However, preliminary indications are that about 100 man-months
will be required for the diagnostic study and about 80 man-months for the
detailed engineering and the preparation of tender documents. The cost per
man-month for the studies and for the engineering will thus be $8,650, $7,000
and $6,250, respectively. If the cost of detailed engineering should exceed
current estimates, additional funds could be provided under the possible iron
ore beneficiation project. The Government agreed to provide any additional
funds required to complete the engineering in case any surplus cost should not
be covered under a future loan for an iron ore beneficiation project (Section
3.01 of Loan Agreement). The local costs of the project are required for
geological surveys in the Bahariya oasis, ore testing at local metallurgical
laboratories, some engineering design work and subsistence allowance for the
foreign engineers.
Financing and Disbursement
61.       The proposed loan of US$2.5 million would finance the expected
foreign exchange cost of the project. No UNDP funds are available for this
purpose since UNDP allocations to Egypt have been fully committed. Out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan US$0.7 million to finance the diagnostic study
would be onlent to HADISOLB on the same terms as those received by the Govern-
ment. Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for contracts awarded to foreign firms by ISC and HADISOLB. The Government
would finance the local costs estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent. The



- 18 -
loan would be refinanced under any later loan or credit that the Bank Group
might make for the iron ore beneficiation project. ISC's and HADISOLB's
existing staff will perform most of the functions required from the local
experts. The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed loan is
shown in Annex III.
62.       Because of the urgent need for implementation of the beneficiation
study and the diagnostic study, which, as mentioned before, will be carried
out by ISC and HADISOLB, respectively, work on these project items is sched-
uled to start in end-June and August 1977 respectively. Depending on the
date of signature of the loan documents, some retroactive financing may be
necessary in the form of a down payment and an amount of up to US$0.1 million
is therefore proposed for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1977.
Execution
63.       The beneficiation study, diagnostic study and the detailed engineer-
ing study would be carried out by consultants to be selected on terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Bank. The beneficiation study and the diagnostic
study are expected to be completed by April 30, 1978, and September 30, 1978,
respectively, and the detailed engineering by December 31, 1978. A tentative
implementation timetable, which will be reviewed and agreed upon with the
Government during negotiations, is attached as Annex IV.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Arab Republic of
Egypt, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Egyptian Iron
and Steel Company, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special features of this Project are referred to in
paras. 57 and 58.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 1, 1977



Page 1 of bi pages
TABLE %A
ISYPT                * SOESAL.ZN.IEATOBS 0078 SMElT
LAND AREA CTMOu AMlO                   *    ........eeee...  eeeee e..e.e.eee-.--
.- .....*........                          IIRRT                                             COuNTRIES C 970)
?OTAL~     1001.4                                         MOST RECINT
ASRIC.    21.2i                            oO9      1970    ESTIMATE           PMILIPPOMES     TURREY          SPAIN**
.. - Pw-- .... e----e.w.w*Z.-@ ...................             .... * - z ...........
ON. PER 11T7     (UMsS                    130,0      *10,0      310,0                230.0       080.0      1500.0
....................
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
*OPJLATINo (MyD.Yr. WILLIONI             25,s       33.3       37.1                 3.0*        35.6        33.0
POPULATtIN ODESITY
*ER C 0u*E  0M                         20.0       33.0       37.0               123.0         4t.0        07.0
fR *0. MM. AR4ICULTuRAL LAND         1043.0     1t72.0     1273.0               375.0         09.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE S%IT4 RATt (/TWOU. AVI           044.       42.1       37.6                00.00 4.0                21.0
CRUDE DEATM RATE (/TWOU,AvS            20.7       17.0       14.0                13.4 10,4                 8.0
INFANT mORTALITo RATE IITNouI         109.0      110.0      100.0                80.0        145.0        27.9
LIFE EVPECTANCY AT 81R1m     yRtS)     440.9     409.9       s2.                 55.t         54.4        70.5
aR SS R PRODUCTION RATE                 2.R        3.0        3. 0                 3. 3        2.6 /a.b    1.4
POPULATION ORMWTW RATE Ml
TOTAL                                   2.4        2.0        2.2                 3.o          2.5         1.1
URBAN                                   0.0        3.0        3.3                 3.7          4.9         2.0
JR8A4 "DPILAT?InO    It   TOTAL)         3 8.0      a2.1       4a.6                31.8         38.7        S9,l
AGE STRJCTURE (PARCEvTI
0 TI 1   y0R5                         a3.0 l     r4,0         ..                 5.         041.08       27.8
15 TO ,a YEA0S 5R0.                               52.0         ..                51b.         53.9        o2.5
05 Y!AMq AND OVER                       3.0        4.0         ,,                 2.8          0.3         9.7
AGE NEPINM!CY    WATIO                    0.9k&      0.9                            0.o          0.9         0.0
ECONOMIC MEPENDfN:Y RATIO                 1.8        1.7          ..                 1.5         1.S  I      1.1
P'*ILY PLANNING
ACC1PTOOS (cuMULATIVE.   T1OIJI          .       48.0     1239.0               350.0
aSERS It or '4R01(    WEOMEN             ..         .-       21.1                 2.0          S.2
EMP"OVYM!T
TOTAL L0909 !ORCE (T4UJLSANO           7800s 0 L   6300 .0/4b9300.0             12300.0     10SO0.0 d    11900 0.0
LA9R PiscEC TN oARICJLTURE III           57.0   c   53,o/a_b   47.0 I              5   L        b7.0        25.0
JNE'PLvYEn   tl OF LASOQ FORCEI           5.0        3.0        2.0                  7.o         9,.0        1.,1 
ONIOME OISTRIRUTION:
O TI PR4o'  INOME'EC.0 By.
WSAIHEST  Slt OF  OJSHOtLDS             9.2 L       ..     . ,                              32.8
1413'ST 20t OF HOJSEHOLDS              0.4          ..          . .                           b . 0  
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.0         ..          ..                  ..         2.9
LOWEPT   rov OF 4OJSEMOLDS             ".1          .           ..                  ,          e9.4
DISTRIRUTIOo OF LAND O14NERSIAIP
I 090(0 fly TOD 101 DF OWNERS                    ..         ..       ,,               *         53.0
DONED Rv SMALLEST 10! OWNERS              ..          ..         *-                             0.9
4CELTH AND NUTRITION
*oPULATIOo PCR eMYSICIAN               2500.0A Le   loo190   1820.0                                        74o *-  2  0  Ta.oLO
POPUL&TIIN PIP NURSING PERSON          2730.0aIto.           1520.0 o                 ,,      17  o . 0Zs
"OPULATION PER N0SPITAL RED             900.0      abo.0 .   0                    550.0        500.0       220.0
*ce CAPITA SUPPLY n.
CALORIES tl OF Rf;UIREMECTS)           95.0       94 0      113.0                100.0         0.0       107. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER oAVi                00.0       tb0           . 0b  I           45 .0       78.o         I o.
-O.  AHICH ANIAL AND PULSE           17.0       10.0          ,,               22.0         22.0        00.0
)EATW Q0l( (/THUOU   A518 1.a            39.0                                        9. 0       15.0A         0.9
ED JO a1yTN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
*RmiMY SCWOOL                         b0.0        08.0       70,0 i              10.0        111 .0      131. 0
SECONDAoSY SCHOL                       1.h0       32,0       36. 0L              48.0         28.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHLOOLING PROvIDED
(FIRST jN0 SJC04D LEVEL)               12.0       12,0       12.0                1o0          110o        I Io
VOcATIoNAL ENROLLMENT
(t OF SECONDARY)                       22.o       19.0       18.0o                  .0 1O0               20.0
AOULT LITERACy RATE (01                  20.0           ,            a,                           . *  55  900.
L0OSING
" ;S;oNS P(R ROO4 CURSANI C.U .N.                                                    21          1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS wITNOUT
PIPED WATER CIS                                tO                      ,   O .  .  70.o0      0   0.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITV
(I IF ALL DWELLINGS)                   3S,                   ao,OLg              23.0         41.0
RURAL DwELLINDS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (S)                       .          ..       20,0k                 7,0         8.0 
C04SUMPTION
9tAOIO REeEIVERS tDtR TWOU POP)          58.0      132.0       143.0                45.0        89.0       200.
PASSENSER CARS (PER T8tU POP)             3.0        4.0        *5.0                 8.0         4.0         71.0
ELECTRICITY CXEWHJR  ^PER   API         10 2. 0    228.0      225.0                255.t,      20 7       10303.0
NEWSPRINT (MOvYR PER CAP       1~~~~~~t.3  1.0a       1.3                 2 .n         0.7         5 .8
SEE NOTES AND OEPINITIOAJ8 ON RENEg.........................................................................



RTwIM 
Page 2 of (a pagea
NOTE
Unless otherise noted, data for 1960) refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
ma Spain's successful diversification of its economic struc.ture, degree of induetrialisation and developoent of tourist makes it an appropriate
"objective" country.
EGYPT           1960     Ia  1950-55;      /b  Excluding population of email agglomerationa in the frontier districts;            /c   Figureso relate to persons
six years end over, excluding nomad population;         /d   196h-65;     /.   1962;    If   Including assistant oursee, and
midwives;     a    1960462;     /h  Urban only.
1970     /a  1966;     A~ Relates to 12-61 years of ago;         /c  Registered, met ail practicing in the country.
MOST RECUT ESTIMATE,        /a  As percentage of employment;       /b   May 1973;   ~     1972;     /d  Registered, not oil practicing in thle
country;     /s   1971;     If  1969-71 average;       a   1976, percentage of population.
PHILIPPINES     1970     /a   As   percentage of employment;       A    Inside.
TURKEY          197      /    Ea,cludee 17 Eastern provinces;      Ab  1965-67;     /a   Ratio of population, under 15 and 65 and over to labor force, 15 years
and over;     Id   15 years and over excludes unemployed;        /.   Registered only;      af   Disposable incme;       a    Including
assistant ourses and midwives;        lb  1961-66;     a    Persouns six yours and over who tell tie census takers that they can,
read and Write.
SPAIN           1970     /.   Deployment office estimate;      Ab   Registered, not oil practicing in the country.
R7, April 25, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL AtNDICATORS
Land Are   (thou                                                                           po' kpulato  sucr    o   esc- Popuistios divided by o-ober of pracicicog
Tots;   Torsi surf.. so rea coprising 1sod cr0    sod isl.od waits,.                         sale sod fec1t    radute cn-crco,   trainsd" or 'certltlod' curses,. ad
Agrii.   M.Hot recect s-o.t.lsc  of egrirultuts1 area used sonporarily or pers.-             aeciliary p-orsoc1 with training or espsrisscs.
cectly for crPs, pastures. carber 6 hitchec gcrd-o or to lie fsliow.                     Population per hospital bed - Population divided by camber of hospital bodc
avaitble to public end privat     g-crsi cod speoiaiiscd huopital acd
tNP cot capit. ffS51 - tot per capita etuacat c..rnci carkec prices.                         rehabilitatioc roofers ; ec.Iudes   uesing hone  and estcciishoects for
-sl-1-td by     -c  r           -vrss   mthod as World Rash Atila  (1973-75 basis);         -tuctdial ood prevotive use.
1960; 1970 scd t975 deca.                                                                Por capita supply of usisriss ft of rasuiroants) - C-epotad from ..corgy
oqiaotof co  food supplies av-iloblo to toutry per ca.pica per dsy;
Popol civon cod vital  -si-1 inct-oiiabin oupplios ccsprisn dosestic prdeco.tp-tc loss coports , acd
topulatloc foid-yeat cillico)     Ac of July fi-o:   if nor o-llublo,    -v-rgo              chac9e  iu uctork; not supplios -ccIuds acual feed, seeds, q--ocicleuossd
of c-a ond-y-netsc   --co; l'6t, 1970 and 1975 dccc.                                       is food p-oessiog and I-ess    is discrihutino; r-qoiremots W-re ..i-ced
by FAO bss..d on physiological.. codo for sotoc a.ttity csd health consid-
topoiccion de-sicy -ero si,ta, ks - Mid-year populacion Per square kilomter                  sting etiomsoo        enperacufe, body weights, Age esd a.. distrihutioso of
(ISO hsecareu  of coral area.                                                              Pppstiacin, and a11itoig 10% for   asio ct household is-e.
Ppnolatloo density-pse soosre ho of ocric. land - Coopocod us shon       for               Per ospi-a .opply of pnrtiei  furso   ner dcvi - Proteic c--et of pee -apicu
agriculturaIl.iod enly.                                                                    set soppiy of food per dey; set sPppiy of food is defined as sbou; r.qoite-
nests for oil coostrios escahliahed by USDA fEnoosit Research Services
VIral statistics                                                                             pcnvidc for n oflocci-   icac     of 60 groso of total protein per doy, and
Crude birth rac er etchounand, overoon - Amnol liiv     bitch, pet thousand of               20 gross of -cinl cod puton protoic, of which If gram     hbould he seinsl
old-yos   popu1isifo; ce-yea    stlthcic -ve.~S. coding in i960 and 197f,                  pro-st; choe. atanderds ss lowr cha- chose of 75 aren        of t.tcl protein
scd fiv-yea    averap  ..ding In 1075 for over recess so tiate.                            cod 23 gross of seinci proteic as   -c-orge for rho world, prnpnsed by tAO
Cruds decch rain p eth ....cad,     -. ov o- AnnocI dostho per thuousod of cid-year          in thn Thitd Worid tuod Survy.
pop.lacion; teo-ynr arictonein -veragoa ending In i960 cod 1970 cod five-                Per caPita Protini  sunnIy from animal sod poise - Protein supply of food
ye c  .ravr ge  sding in 1971 for inns trouser o-tinatn.                                  dnrived fros aoimaio   nd pulses in gross per day.
SInfot nortraicy r-ts f/thou) - A-.o.I dnachs of i.fnftccocdot nun year of sgn             Dnath race f/thnu) coes 1-4 - Annsi d-aho per thousssd is age greup 1-4
iper rh-oco lv b!,irths.                                                                   yese, no childoss in this gse group; suggested asoindicator of
Ife eoeencsc.y as bIrth fyrs) - A-neage nsbor of yearn of life resictog      ti             ni-utrition.
bitch; usua lly fiv-yea    --erges en ding in i960. 197f cod 1975 for deociop-
ing c..oncetes.                                                                          Education
Cross teProduction tstre-uA-rage comber of li-n daughters a woco will boor                 Adjusted enolet rtio - nelssaey school - Entoillact of all ages - pee-
is hnr  cno-I rep-doctive Period if     h.b.essienccs pruont age-spoit c                   cetsgn of pri-sy school-ags population; isu1udee rhtldren aged 6-SI yeses
ferrtllft, --c; ususliy flv-y-n -v-eges ending in 1960, t97t and 1975                      hut adjusred ice different lengths of pri-tay educa.tion; for conre         ich
for dn-elpi-g no     ori.                                                                  unienesalt,oduoccio-, osrsllest sa    enc....d loot si-re som  pupils see below
Punuirion oro    rs   - ac  iC) -toini - Cospondcrd     groucth rafts of otd-yoar            or abov   teoficial school ags.
population for 1950-60, I-5-70 and i970t75.                                              Adfosted esroi11et -stlo - sennodary schooi - computed c.staove; seondary
Population o-thv ruin (7.) - urban - Conputud like groth rtac     of total                   education reqoiras at I.eces foot years of apprc-ad pelasay itoaruction;
pcpoictinn; difircot dnfietrione of urban -rn- nay aff-nt top-bsility of                   Provides genera 1, ve..cloina1 nr teac.her training ins-trsiocs for Pupils
data conig .tonrino.                                                                       of 12 to 17 yeses of age; corepondence coursec -t generall1y .a.tuded.
Utfbs population ft of tots1) - Ratio of urban in cocci populotion; diffeesnt              tear   of schooling ep-ided (fiest snd second L-1ei) - Tosl1 yeses of
defisisions of urboc areas   oy   ffool corp-bailivy of dat.soaong coutries,               schooling; at secondary te-t, voca.tional itetruitn      say be p-eto.lty or
Zom,plete ly  s-Iuded.
Awn siru-tor   (per-et) - Childre    (0-14 years.  werb-iug-age (15-64 y-ur),              Voationa    -oeItoet ft of -eondsry) - voational tostitutuio- include
and recited ff5 rears acd noon    as Pec..t. g- of old-year populocion                      technical  isduatrial or ocher progr-    which apeate iodepende-ly ora
Age depend-eo   rat s  - fRmi  of popua-in urd,rn   I and 6) and over to chose               dep--onos    of seccdsry insitutiano,
af ogn  IS through 64.                                                                   Adult literary rote (7. -    iranadults (able ro resd and w-iso) as Pn-
fco-oni  deo-dcn-otcuio-oa R.In of popola sivo     -der I ovd 6) and aver to                 nn-tugc of coral odoIt population agrd 15 I.ac     cmd ove.,
the labr f.rco is age gro.p of 15-64 roars
tasiv ly   ..aInic  - c oPro  rs frntcn.thoc) - Cnocinti on oumbr of acce ptors            Huino
of hirch-cou..roI d-nvlrn  under anspic-  of notional fanlly pla-ing Program-.. tnocpe                 oon (urbam) - Average eambnr of pnrsons per roa    io otupied
sintce i-ceP,in'.   -                                                                      co-etoal..I dwellings is urban aras      dwellings eotlode oon-p-raent
Family Pl..iacotivoroCA of ourriod wouno) - terrorcg-s of maried came           of           ot-u cures nodguo-uPied iparts.
child-b-ariog ago (15-44 year) who us     hi-t-tnt-I d-vi-n to all eceln:.nnind d.nlling                     without piedwter (7.) 0-cupind connocionc1 dwellings
omeen fit same age group.                                                                  is urhee c-d rua.ra.ihotied                rotside piped -trnr facilities
Tota  ichr foce (hnca-d) - iconoi-11y action P-ro-ns      i-cudieg a-cd                 eleorriitry to liviog q---r asPercent of soa           wlingsi      ra    n
forces sod unemployed hoc -oludiog h...unci-eu    usudeocu   Otct; dnflniti...             rural aras
Is variou   coutries ore ens   -parble.                                                  total!d dwellngs c-n-entd to electricity (7.) - Composed uobene for total
Labor foc    isagictoro (1       - Agireul1u-1 labor for.. (in famtng, fer-sry,              dwtlns      cy.
bsigedfhibig( . aspsrossagc of totaIl is"u    force.
imonire   (%. of isbr foc)-u        pl yd ur   -80ally dofioed as peren- who             CousamPrio
arHhi ondc gle  to cabs a job, out of a job on a glv-n day, remined nut          Rsd1o -eniv-rs fne   thou Pop) - Ott types of resei-ees foe rodin broadcat
of a job, and   ehing curb for a spcifieidmiolo        eidnt        odn     0              to gener-1 pubtic pet thousan.d of ppepoltJam; ecnlcdns oli nessd,reroiver
weeb  maycot  e e-Pac  i  ewe     uere      doe to dffore    defioin                   is countrios -od in year  hbo   rogIstraci     on c d raio stsa  in effect;
ef umployod and sourc     of dctc, e.g., emPloYment office arciucico, samPle               data for recent year   may not be -osarsblo since must sountriss sbotished
Passngercat    (per thou eon) - Passenger ucts nomprise. moto   ose  aring
rscos  die triboti.nn  P-pertnrgs of peiv-to income (beth in ta.sh ced hind)                 les  that night prsons; ex1ntdessabulso-e, hesra         co...d milictry
received by rinhest 5t., rieh-s 20t. Poores    20%, a-d pone-t 40% of house-               vehictes.
Ied..                                                                                   Elesitint   (khb/yr suer sap  - Annoal -oucxption of tsduetris.lssnil
pblic an.d petivats el-ctrinity in kilswstt hones Pee ..pit., genera11y
Disteibotine of lsnd nwerhip-perc-ntagco of 1-od coed by wealthiest lot.                     base.d on production dota, without stseofor ins.e. to grids hut          tins--
cod poorest lot of tand owners                                                              tog ft imparts end emp-tt    of e1-e,eisiry.
Nswepei.ntt (hg/,,yr su  fOe) -.e.c.iana        sonsoption in kitog-sm
Health and Nturitionetmtdfrmdmei                                                                                      prdoclnpls          Ie cmnt    isvpit
pesats   sue ehiic  - Popu lation divided hY scober of P-etlrnglmp                                                 d                 i:t       f     pjt
physit!nisesqoaifie1d fros a medical ached cc lulvorsty local



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual              Est.       Proiected      1973-  1975-
1973      1974     1975    1976          1980         1975   1980         1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS1/                                        (Constant 1975 Pr-ices)             Average Annual
Growth Rates     As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                  10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636            16,288    6.3     6.4           99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)               57       365    ..         82               113     -. -.                +1    ..    +1
Gross Domestic Income                   10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718            16,401    6.1     6.6          100   100   100
Imports(incl. no,i-factor services)     -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904           -5,970    32.0     3.6           27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)      1.950     2,230    2,198   2.512            4.226     6.2    14.0          1i     19    26
Resource Gap                              -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392            -1,744   75.0    -9.0            9    23    10
Consumption Expenditures                 10,115   10,887   11,836  11,806            14,179    8.2     3.7           96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)   1,373     2,149    2,867   2,304            3,966    44.0     6.7           13    24    24
Domestic Savings                           459       327       76     912             2,222  -60.0    95.0            4     1    14
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                          As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                            291       480      728     550                                            17    17
Fuels and intermediate goods             633     1,655    2,057   1,566                                            38    48
Consumption Goods                        740     1.340    1.544   1.349                                            45    35
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)     1,664     3,475    4,329   3,465                                           100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                    423       857      522     490                                            42    33
Industrial Goods                         580       817    1.046   1.115                                            58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)     1,003     1,674    1,568   1,605                                           100)  100
Travel                                   156       266      332     383
Suez Canal                               ..                  85     308
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                        68       122      100     109
Import Price Index                        67        95      100     105
Terms of Trade Index                     101       128      100     103
Exports Volume Index                      94        88      100     114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                               33        34       33      31
Industry, Electricity & Construction      24        26       28      28
Services                                  43        40       39     41
Total                                     0        070     100 1o0l0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                 1977
Current Prices            Budgeted                           As Percent of GOP
Current Receipts                      3,142     3,648    4,593   5,673    7,821                                 30     39
Current Expenditures                  2.786     3.487    5.056   5.238    6.121                                 26     42
Budgetary Savings                       356       161     -463     435    1,700                                  4     -3
Public Sector Investment              1,141     1,446    2,337   2,196   3,502                                  11     20
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURES DETAILS                                       Actual Prelim.              DETAIL ON                At 1975 P and ER
(AS % of Total Current Expenditures)                1973    1974    1975     1976              PUBLIC SECTOR         Draft Plan
Defense                                             39.1    24.8     29.72'  28.3/2/          INVESTMENT PROGRAM       (1976-80)     7 of Total
Subsidies                                           17.1    35.8    36.2     30.5              Agriculture             1,997             10
General Services                                    19.6    17:6     16.6    21.3              Industry and Mining      4,792            24
Economic Services                                   24.2    21.8     17.5     19.8             Services                3,993             20
Total Current Expenditures                         100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0              Transport and com-
mui,ications (Inc. Suez)  5,191           26
Other                   3.993             20
Total Expenditures      19,966           100
SELECTED INDICATORS                                         1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                2.08     3.663/
Import Elasticity                                           3.81    0.75'
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                          Total Labor Force   ___             Value Ad!ded Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions          7 of Tot,l                   In US Dollars    % of Average
1973     1975       1973    1975 0                 19i3    1975     1973    1975
Agriculture                                        4.2     4.2         47    44.2                     624    858       67    68.8
Industry                                           1.2     1.2         13    12.6                   1,557  2,087      167   167.4
Service 4/                                         3.6     4.1         40    43.2                    615   1,374       66   110.2
Total                                              9.0     9.5        100   100.0                     932  1,247      100   100.0
1/ Incorporating revised GDP estimates by the Ministry of Planning December 1176.
2/ Includes reconstruction expenditures.
3/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976. For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
4/ Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



ANNEX I
EGYPT                            Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual              Est.
1973      1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                   1,003      1,674     1,568    1,605
Import of Goods, c.i.f.I/                                -1,664    -3,475     -4,329  -3,465
Trade Balance                                            -661    -1,801     -2,761  -1,860
Service Receiptsl/                                          421        710     1,082   1,480
Service Payments                                           -414       -541      -801  -1,010
Service Balance                                             7        169       281     470
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                            -654     -1,632    -2,480  -1,390
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                 -407       -631      -568    -545
(of which suppliers' credits)                            (277)     (-285)    (-280)  (-300)
C.   Net Reduction in Short-term Debt                          --         --       -264     --
D.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts             -113        -28      -241    -200
E.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                          -1,174     -2,291    -3,55   -2,135
F.   Supply of Funds                                         1,290      2,119     3,573   2,135
Private unrequited transfers                                6         42        91      65
Official grants                                           725      1,264       988     635
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                --         --        --      --
Other MLT loans                                           170        199       583     665
Suppliers' credits                                        160        273       363     420
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                    --           5     1,580      470
Foreign investment                                        --           7        20       50
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits        352        585       --       235
Other monetary movements, net 2/                         -123       -256       -52    -405
G.   Changes in Reserves                                       116        172        20    n.a.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                              725      1,264       988      635
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                      --          85        77      157
IDA                                                       75          55        55      40
Other Multilateral                                        --           6       100      100
Governments                                              290         595     2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                                     160         273       363     420
Total Public MLT Loans                                   525       1,014     3,102   2,092
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                   79          95       111     231
Repayments on Public Debt                                407         631       569     545
Total Public Debt Service                                486         726       680      776
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                      34.1        30.5      25.7    25.2
EXTERNAL DEBT                                Actual Debt Outstanding on September 30, 1976
Disbursed Only          Percent
World Bank/IDA                                        154.5                  2.7
Governments and Arab Dev. Funds                     4,604.4                 81.2
Suppliers                                             685.9                 12.1
Other MLT                                             226.0                  4.0
Total Public MLT Debt                               5,670.3                100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                        1,380.7
1/ Excludes "own-exchange" imports
2/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1977)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                            Less cancellations
Numbers      Year   Borrower           Purpose              Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR     1959     SCA   Suez Canal Expansion           56.5       --      --
Cr  181-UAR     1970     UAR   Nile Delta Drainage             --       26.0     8.3
Cr  284-UAR     1972     ARE   Railways                        --       30.0     1.9
Cr S-13-UAR 1/ 1972      ARE   Cotton Ginning Engineering      --        0.2     --
Cr  393-UAR     1973     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage            --       36.0    18.7
Cr  412-UAR     1973     ARE   Development Industrial Bank 2/ --        15.0     2.1
Cr  423-UAR     1973     ARE   Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation   --       18.5     6.2
Cr  437-UAR     1973     ARE   Population                      --        5.0     3.9
Cr S-15-UAR3/   1973     ARE   Talkha Engineering              --        0.4     --
Cr  484-UAR     1974     ARE   Talkha Fertilizer               --       20.0    10.0
Cr  524-EGT     1974     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                  --       35.0     2.9
Ln 1062-EGT     1974     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                 35.0       --      4.9
Ln 1064-EGT     1974     SCA   Suez Canal Rehabilitation      50.0       --     42.1
Ln 1085-EGT     1975     ARE   Tourah Cement                  40.0       --     26.0
Ln 1098-EGT     1975     ER    Railways II                    37.0       --     24.8
Cr  548-EGT     1975     ARE   Telecommunications              --       30.0    27.0
Cr  576-EGT     1975     ARE   DIB II 2/                       --       25.0    23.3
Ln 1239-EGT     1976     APA   Alexandria Port                45.0       --     45.0
Ln 1276-EGT 4/ 1976      ARE   Fruit and Vegetable Dev.       50.0       --     50.0
Cr  637-EGT     1977     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II         --       40.0    40.0
Ln 1285-EGT     1977     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II        10.0       --     10.0
Ln 1292-EGT     1977     ARE   Textile Rehabilitation         52.0       --     52.0
Ln 1369-EGT 5/ 1977      AWA   Alexandria Water Supply        56.0       --     56.0
Cr  681-EGT 6/ 1977      ARE   Education                       --       25.0    25.0
Totals                                                  431.5    306.1    480.1
Of which has been repaid                                 56.5      0.6
Total now outstanding                                   375.0    305.5
Amount sold                                      7.6
Of which has been repaid                         6.0      1.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 5/                       373.4     305.5   480.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(amount in US$ million)
Year   Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity    Total
1976   Arab Ceramic Company    Ceramic Industry    4.25     .75      5.0
(plus .635
contingency (5.635)
commitment)
1/  Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective
6/  Excluding exchange adjustments
Note:  This Annex does not include the three projects which have been
presented to the Executive Directors in May and June 1977:
Nile Delta Drainage II ($27 million loan, $27 million credit and
$12 million Third Window loan), Regional Electrification
($48 million loan) and Industrial Imports ($70 million loan).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. Government has allocated the required local funds for the year
1977 for the implementation of the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects.
It has also agreed that local funds required in the future would be included
in the medium-term development plan.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Dates: (i) March 31, 1977,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) December 31, 1977,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the Closing Date for
the part of the Credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications items
was extended from September 30, 1976, the original date, to December 31, 1977;
the Closing Date for the other parts of the Credit, originally December 31,
1973, was extended for a fourth time to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At present, about 30 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of chemicals for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project
(Loan No. 1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of March 31, 1977, $12.9 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in June 1979 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
are now firm as all procurement has been completed but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit has
been upgraded to the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of
Ginneries which should give the management more freedom regarding financial
and administrative matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by mid-
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT_- Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The bulk of the procurement a ions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of thei six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Disbursement of Bank funds has now begun, the Canal Authority
having first used lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to date
on project implementation has been good, and procurement on other items to be
financed by the Bank is well advanced. A new project for the enlargement of
the canal has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors early in FY78. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound;
canal traffic and revenues are both higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and disburse-
ments are proceeding. Construction of civil works is under way but at a slow
rate and is about six months behind schedule. Consultants which assisted in
bid evaluation are now assisting in supervision of project execution and
improvement of the existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) are experiencing opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. A program
to remedy this situation is being discussed with Government and ER. Also,
declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a worsening of ER's financial
position. Government is considering an increase in rail tariffs proposed
by ER.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. Construction has, however, now
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed and bids for telex equipment are being
evaluated, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
As of March 31, 1977, about $12.7 million had been committed under
the project and $1.6 million had been disbursed. The transfer of respon-
sibility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial
Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants have completed the first phase of their work; proposals from
management consultants have been invited. Prequalification of contractors for
dredging and construction works has started. Tender documents for floating
cranes are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation. Bank
Misr has signed sub-loan agreements for most of the identified sub-projects;
consultants have been appointed for Bank Misr and for the Nubariya civil
works. The project became effective December 12, 1976, two months behind
schedule. In view of the complexity of the project and the uncertainty
caused by delay in approval of GOE 1977 budget containing necessary alloca-
tions, progress is generally satisfactory. This latter problem now appears
to be resolved auguring improved future progress. Consultants have started
their work with the Drainage Authority, as well as with Bank Misr, and the
consultants for Nubariya Seed Production Company are being procured. About
75 percent of Nubariya Seed Company farm is presently cultivated. The new
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is rapidly coming to grips
with its tasks and ensuring that the various agroindustrial subborrowers
are proceeding as planned with their respective investments.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan and credit were declared effective on January 31, 1977
and project implementation has commenced.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This loan has been declared effective on February 16, 1977 and
project implementation has commenced. The two beneficiary companies have
established effective project implementation units. About 75 percent of
engineering drawings have been completed and contracts with contractors have
been signed. Prequalification of the equipment suppliers has been completed
and tender documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Action on effectiveness conditions is being initiated.



ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Iron Ore Beneficiation and Engineering Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Undisbursed
Disbursement                    Amount
(US$ Millions)
Quarterly                          Cumulative
1977      II             0.20                0.20                2.30
III             0.45                0.65                1.85
IV             0.35                1.00                1.50
1978       I              0.45               1.45                1.05
II             0.55                2.00               0.50
III             0.35                2.35               0.15
IV             0.15                2.50               0.00
These disbursements are based on the assumption of monthly
progress payments to the consultants during the preparation of the beneficia-
tion and diagnostic studies and the subsequent detailed engineering.



ANNEX IV
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Iron Ore Beneficiation and Engineering Project
Implementation Schedule
Iron Ore Beneficiation Study
Proposals for this study were received by ISC 1/ on Mlarch 19, 1977,
evaluation has been completed and contract negotiations are on the point of
being finalized. The successful consultants are expected to start work in the
field in the second half of June 1977.   A preliminary report is expected on or
around December 31, 1977 with the final report scheduled for April 30, 1978.
Diagnostic Study
Proposals for this study were received by HADISOLB 2/ on May 18,
1977 and are currently being evaluated by a panel consisting of the Company's
senior operators and engineers. HADISOLB 2/ intends to conclude a contract
with the successful consultants by the end of July and to have them begin
work in the field in the second half of August 1977. A preliminary report
outlining major problems and possible solutions for them is expected on or
around December 31, 1977 with the final report scheduled for September 1978.
Detailed Engineering and Preparation of Tender Documents
If the findings of the preliminary reports on the iron ore beneficia-
tion and diagnostic studies are positive as to first, the technical and economic
viability of beneficiating Bahariya iron ore, second, the question of water
supply and effluent disposal, and third, the practicality of increasing the
capacity of the iron ore transportation system, a call for offers to undertake
the detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for a benefi-
ciation project will be issued to suitably qualified engineering consultants
at the beginning of February 1978. It is proposed to select the successful
consultant in April 1978 and to have them complete their assignment by year
end.
This schedule would permit invitations to bid for the plant and
equipment comprised in the beneficiation plant to be issued in the second
half of calendar 1978, when according to our present time-table, a possible
Bank loan for an iron ore beneficiation project should be ready for presenta-
tion to the Executive Directors.
1/   General Executive Organization of the Iron and Steel Complex.
2/   Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
June 1, 1977



(  '--   -   @  t5_i_  i  =                 <           3-                            /  o'7~. --  f
$  ..,--' ,-                                                              '      N.       .       .-' 9M~ -  \-a- -R-'i4 --" ''"\ 'D104
I *                   /i         R \IN,-
I                       ~~~~~~~~~~~ISRAEL
|   .  '  , 5C^,  /             / /                X o   /   <     '  ;  %/  5 A 11 1 ) 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A j ) 
A                                          2 g  0  \  <   7  ,' * U X B I AAR
1------   - -                                    . - -                                                      .
--                                -                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----
...~~~~~~~~~~'                 .          I                        /   7 
I         .                ,.--'     ,5       /            ..      _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=\  2e.~-------
/~~~~ '
<I                     ,.'                                                      -; WN           '''"'          -
j f  @' ''   1   ARAB REPUBLIC OF                              a-R
r~~~~~~-             ARA    REUBI   OF C:b7                                               -
C~~J  J     ~~EGYPT                     I-~>---
7-~  ~   j
r ~ ~~~      ~     ~~~~~   04 -O'   ,,II     a    74ra  04r
4,         7            _    _bea,Ca,o,aadod.                         r_
s   f  + C   me Pluvoy    ~   g,*,,, ,'-<,<'  @i ^  ~  <



