Report No. PIC4680
Project Name                     Egypt-Sohag Rural Development Project (@+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       EGPA40858
Borrower                         Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agencies            Governorate of Sohag Chairman, ORDEV
Ministry of Local Administration
Cairo, Egypt
Fax.   (202) 337-4734
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 21, 1997
Projected Appraisal              August 25, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 16, 1997
1.      Country/Sector Background. Although the incidence of poverty
has been reduced from 40 percent in 1952 to the estimates ranging
from 22-30 percent of all households in 1995, poverty in rural
areas is more widespread than in urban areas, and is concentrated
particularly in Upper Egypt. Sohag is one of the poorest
governorates. Its population of 3 million is 77 percent rural, with
about 209,000 farming and 150,000 landless households on only
320,000 feddans of land. Soils are fertile but suffer from poor
drainage. Livestock, wheat, sorghum, berseem and cotton are the
main activities. Despite outmigration, population growth averages
2.8 percent p.a. Despite efforts by the government and NGOs, 70
percent of the adult population is illiterate (84 percent of
women), 30 percent of villages have no potable water supply
systems, 30 percent no health facilities and 90 percent no
sanitation.
2.      Agriculture remains an important sector within the Egyptian
economy providing employment to about 35 percent of the labor force
and contributing nearly 20 percent of GDP. However, the
agricultural resource base is limited and finite, with a total of
only 7.3 million feddans, an average of only 0.12 feddans of
irrigated land per capita. The bulk of the irrigable area is
fertile and the climate is favorable, giving Egypt a very
productive agricultural environment. Production is intensive and
yields are high. The vast majority of the 3.5 million farming
households own small areas of land. Until 1986, agriculture
suffered from excessive Government intervention in production and
marketing of major crops and inputs.
3.      In the early 1990's the Government embarked on a bold
economic reform and structural adjustment program to achieve a
sustainable macro-economic balance and restructure the economy for



renewed economic growth. Introduction of these reforms has resulted
in the adoption of a competitive rate for the Egyptian Pound;
liberalization of interest rates; rationalization of import tariffs
and the adoption of a program for removal of import bans; a phased
program of subsidy removal; and enactment of revenue measures to
reduce fiscal deficits. These measures have improved the climate
for private investment and trade.
4.      Reform measures in the agricultural sector resulted in the:
(i) removal of controls on crop area, product quota deliveries and
product prices; (ii) removal of input subsidies on feed and
fertilizers and freeing of fertilizer distribution; (iii) raising
of agricultural lending rates towards commercial banking levels;
(iv) privatization of public agricultural production companies and
sale to the private sector of state-owned lands; (v) gradual
liberalization of land tenancy laws; (vi) liberalization of
agricultural trade; and (vii) liberalization of the sugar sub-
sector. With the full implementation of the above measures, the
agricultural sector would be liberalized and major distortions
removed.
5.      To minimize the impact of these reforms on vulnerable groups,
a US$600 million Social Fund for Development was established in
1991. It was successful in achieving its objectives; a second
multi-donor Social Fund Project for US$775 million was approved in
April 1996. The Fund has financed infrastructure (water,
sanitation, roads, building refurbishment), community development
(upgrading of health and education) and micro-enterprise
development credits throughout Egypt. Community groups, NGOs and
local government departments prepare project proposals which are
then screened by Social Fund staff at local and central level.
6.      In order to tackle poverty on as broad a front as possible,
in addition to the Social Fund for Development, the Government of
Egypt created, in 1994, the National Program for Integrated Rural
Development (SHROUK) which operates under the aegis of the Ministry
of Local Administration (MLA). The long-term objective of the
SHROUK is to decentralize planning and implementation of rural
development to local communities, using traditional village
structures as the base. Pilot programs have started throughout the
country, including in twenty-eight villages in Sohag. Key features
of the SHROUK approach include commitments by local communities to
share in the costs of infrastructure development, collaboration at
local level between ministerial representatives, popularly elected
local councils and members of SHROUK (local government
representatives, NGOs and local volunteers) in agreeing on
priorities. The long-term strategic objectives of SHROUK are:
"sustainable improvement in the quality of rural life while
bridging the gap between rural and urban areas, and sustainable
improvement of the community participation in all steps of
development activities".
7.      The Government of Egypt initially requested IFAD to identify
and support an agricultural development project in Sohag in 1993.
Subsequently the Government felt that a broader rural development
- 2-



approach was required, with strengthening local government capacity
as a main theme in addition to addressing constraints to increasing
agricultural productivity. It proposed, therefore, a key role for
SHROUK in administration of the proposed project, and requested
Bank assistance as well, emphasizing that Bank experience from
other countries in decentralized approaches to rural development
could be useful for SHROUK in developing a workable approach to
local development.
8.      Project Objectives. The principal project objectives are
poverty alleviation, improvement of local infrastructure, and
decentralization and capacity building of local institutions in
rural Sohag. The underlying strategy would be to develop a
structure within the traditional Egyptian village system which
would serve as a mechanism for encouraging active participation by
the local community in improving rural living conditions.
9.      Project Description. The components would include:
A.      Local Institutions Strengthening Component. This component
would support: (i) the strengthening of the SHROUK's Sohag
Governorate Program through the creation of a Sohag Technical
Assistance Secretariat under the General Secretary of the
Governorate; (ii) support to agricultural and irrigation management
services; and (iii) support to other line ministries in Sohag, to
enable them to interact better with the village participatory
process. The project would finance training and technical
assistance to develop institutional capacity and interagency
coordination.
B.      Village Development Program. This component would support
Village Priority Development Plans identified, prepared and
cofinanced by the Sohag villages through the SHROUK participatory
process, in interaction and with the support of the local
administration and technical services. In particular, the project
would support: (i) economic infrastructure (in particular rural
roads); and (ii) social infrastructure and services (potable water,
sewage, youth centers, women's clubs, etc.). The project's
financial contribution would be based on matching grants with up-
front village participation of at least 25 percent (land, labor or
cash).
C.      Rural Finance Program. This component would: (i) provide
technical support to improve villagers' access to existing sources
of credit; and (ii) provide a line of credit and institutional
support to the Sohag Branch of the Local Development Fund.
10.     Project Cost and Financing. The total project costs are
tentatively estimated at US$147 million over a seven-year
implementation period. The project would be financed by: (a) an IDA
credit of about US$25 million; (b) an IFAD loan of about US$25
million; (c) a cash and/or in kind contribution from the families
in benefiting villages of about US$39 million; and (d) a Government
contribution of about US$58 million.
- 3-



11.     Project Implementation. Two ministries have been responsible
for the design of the project, the Ministry of Local Administration
(MLA) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR),
with the Organization for the Reconstruction and Development of
Egyptian Villages (ORDEV), inside MALR, taking the lead and with
the active participation of the Sohag Governorate, USAID, UNICEF,
and national and local NGOs.
12.     At the national level, the project would be managed by the
Organization for the Reconstruction and Development of Egyptian
Villages (ORDEV) which will be assisted by a USAID-financed
project. Because of the importance of agriculture in rural Sohag
there would be a liaison office in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reclamation.
13.     Implementation at the Sohag level, would be the
responsibility of Technical Assistance Secretariat (TAS) under
ORDEV. TAS would provide implementation support to the Sohag
Governorate. The TAS would operate under a management contract and
with staff seconded from key line ministries. The TAS would also
have an important monitoring and evaluation function to follow-up
on project performance and impact. The activities to be financed
would be prepared on a rolling program basis, with the first year's
activities prepared and approved before IDA credit negotiations.
The implementation process includes the following steps: (i)
Orientation and Assessment through meetings are convened at the
Village level; (ii) Popular Participation through meetings held
with focus groups of blocks of 10-15 households representing all
affiliated villages and hamlets; (iii) Planning through a meeting
of the SHROUK Village Committee that decides on priorities and
feasibility studies prepared by the concerned line ministries or
consultants. A Village Priority Development Plan (VPDP) is then
submitted to the SHROUK Governorate Committee (SGC) chaired by the
Governor. After review, the VPDPs are forwarded to ORDEV for
funding. At the national level, a SHROUK Interministerial Committee
has the supreme authority for the SHROUK program;(iv)
Implementation. Once the Village Plan is approved and resources
allocated on a matching grant basis, the SVC decides on
implementation mechanisms: through a line ministry, a local NGO or
private contractor; and (v) Monitoring and Evaluation is done
jointly by the villages and ORDEV.
14.     Project Sustainability. By the end of the implementation
period, the interface between the local communities and the
implementing agencies, including possibly some local NGOs, would be
strong enough to phase out the TAS function. By directly involving
the communities, it becomes possible to match the limited support
services and budget that the Government can make available in such
areas with socio-economic development needs and the requirements of
the people. The project would contribute to sustainability by
encouraging villages to place greater emphasis on income generation
activities such as irrigation and drainage improvement. Full cost
recovery of operation and maintenance costs after the third year of
operation would ensure the sustainability of investments financed
by the project.
-4-



15.     Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA and IFAD Involvement.
About one quarter of the Bank Group lending to Egypt has been in
the agricultural sector. Most of the lending has been directed at
alleviating the physical constraints of agricultural production,
particularly in irrigation and drainage. These projects have
contributed significantly to enhance Egypt's ability to achieve and
sustain high level of farm production. The Bank also served as
executing agency for three area-based rural development projects
financed by IFAD (Miniya Agricultural Development Project, Fayoum
Agricultural Development Project, and West Beheira Agriculture
Project). Lessons learnt from previous activities are: (i) project
implementation in planning should take into account delaying
factors such as procurement procedures, staff shortages, inadequate
budgetary allocations, etc.; (ii) projects should be implemented
under a single implementing institution; and (iii) institutional
strengthening is a critical factor in improving efficiency in
project implementation in the sector.
16.     Furthermore, reviews of rural development projects highlight
the need for greater participation of the beneficiaries in project
preparation and implementation, and for more decentralization.
Reviews have emphasized the need for securing the support of local
communities not only in planning but also during implementation,
and for organizational arrangements involving existing institutions
to ensure close coordination among participating institutions.
Since many changes occur in the rural sector, the design and
implementation of rural development projects should be flexible.
These lessons have been reflected in the design of the proposed
project.
Poverty Category
17.     The project is part of the Program of Targeted Interventions
(PTI).
18.     Environmental Aspects. The project has been assigned an
Environment Category B rating (see attached Annex).
19.     Program Objectives Categories. The project is designed as a
poverty alleviation intervention in one of the poorest governorates
of Egypt and is designed to promote sustainable rural development.
The proposed project would address the following Bank Program
Objective Categories: (a) institution building, through the
development of human resources and discuss strengthening of
extension services; (b) poverty alleviation, through the provision
of income-generating opportunities to the target group; and (c)
improved natural resource management.
20.     Participatory Approach. Project stakeholders were initially
identified through a socio-economic and production systems study,
using participatory techniques in 16 villages. Following an
interactive design workshop with representatives of the villages,
the Governorate and line ministries, pilot village development
plans were prepared for three villages using the SHROUK
participatory approach. Constraints included inadequate funds for
- 5 -



development and operation of rural infrastructure, inadequate
financial services for the poor, and inadequate management of
natural resource. A key element to be addressed further during
preparation will be the extent of contribution to investments by
villages.
21.     Project Benefits. The main benefits from the project would
be: (i) to provide essential services to the rural population on a
cost sharing basis; (ii)strengthened Governorate and local
institutional capacities; (iii) poverty alleviation; and (iv)
replicability. The use of small, socially-based village development
units should enable the approach to be replicated elsewhere.
22.     Project Risks. There are three risks that could have a
negative impact on project implementation: (i) insufficient
Government budgetary commitment to the participatory planning
approach; (ii) limited institutional coordination; and (iii) delays
in project effectiveness, which could have negative impact on the
credibility of the participatory process. These risks would be
addressed during project preparation.
Contact Point:           Jean-Francois Barres, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telelephone No.   (202) 473-2537
Fax.No.   (202) 477-1374
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental
The project has been assigned Environmental Category B. Overall
there would be a positive impact on the environment, through
improvement in village infrastructure, in particular water supply
and rural roads. Other infrastructure investment (schools, social
centers) would be largely "neutral" regarding the environment.
Nevertheless, infrastructure would have to be appropriately
designed to avoid potential negative impact. Design guidelines
would be prepared during preparation. The agricultural extension
component would support sustainable farming, including IPM of which
there is considerable experience in Egypt. The Local Development
Fund would support small-scale enterprise development with minimum
environmental impacts. No resettlement is foreseen under the
project.
7-



