Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3127-EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Sohag Rural Development Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 4, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3127-EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 1998, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through 
its Governorate of Sohag.
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Principal Bank for 
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) with the Borrower ’s assistance, and 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the PBDAC part 
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Local Development 
Fund (LDF) with the Borrower ’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Page  2
Borrower will make available to the LDF through the National Investment Bank 
(NIB) part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to $25,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and IFAD;
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the other sources of finance 
(the Other Cofinanciers) grants in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in agreements (the Other Cofinanciers Agreements) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each of the other Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement and in the PBDAC Project Agreement and the LDF 
Project Agreement both of even date herewith between the Association and PBDAC 
and LDF, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“PBDAC Statutes" means Presidential Decree No. 117 of 1976, 
pertaining to the establishment and operations of PBDAC, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(c)
LDF "Statutes" means Presidential Decree No. 310 of 1978, 
pertaining to the establishment and operations of LDF, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"PBDAC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and PBDAC, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"LDF Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and LDF, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(f)
"PBDAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and PBDAC. pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Page  3
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the PBDAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)
“NIB” means the Borrower’s National Investment Bank established and 
operating pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 119 of 1980, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement;
(h)
“NIB” Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
between the Borrower and NIB, pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
to the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(i)
"LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between NIB and LDF, pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)
"Beneficiary" means a farmer, a rural dweller, or a rural 
enterprise, to which PBDAC or LDF, directly or through a non-governmental 
organization, proposes to make or has made a Subloan;
(k)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(l)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by PBDAC or LDF, 
directly or through a non-governmental organization, to a Beneficiary for a 
Sub-project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit made available 
under the relevant Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(m)
"Part A Operations Manual" means the Borrower’s Governorate of 
Sohag manual, agreed with the Association, for the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;
(n)
"Part B Operations Manual" means PBDAC’s manual, agreed with the 
Association, for the carrying out of Part B of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association; and
(o)
"Part C Operations Manual" means LDF’s manual, agreed with the 
Association, for the carrying out of Part C of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for (i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B 
(1) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by 
PBDAC and LDF on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan 
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-project 
Page  4
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b) 
The Borrower may, through its Governorate of Sohag, PBDAC and NIB, 
respectively, for the purposes of each of Parts A, B, and C of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars three separate special deposit accounts, each in a bank, 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 
2008, and ending March 1, 2033.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on March 1, 2018 shall be one and one-fourth percent      
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on which the 
Page  5
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V 
of the General Conditions: (a) the borrower’s Governorate of Sohag is designated 
as representative of the Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) PBDAC is designated as representative 
of the Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category (2) of said table; and (c) NIB is designated as representative 
of the Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category 3 of said table.
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry 
of Finance for the purposes of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service 
payments with respect to the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
(i) shall, through its Governorate of Sohag, carry out Part A of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose; and (ii) without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause 
PBDAC to carry out Part B of the Project and LDF to carry out Part C of the 
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable PBDAC and LDF to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through its Governorate of 
Sohag and coordinate and supervise the carrying out by PBDAC of Part B of the 
Project and by LDF of Part C of the Project, in accordance with the 
Page  6
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (2) of 
the table set forth  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to PBDAC 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
PBDAC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the  Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid 
by PBDAC to the 
Borrower over thirty-five (35) years, including 
a grace period of ten (10) 
years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable to the 
Borrower shall be 
the equivalent (determined as of the respective 
dates of repayment) of the 
value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
respect 
of the above-mentioned Category, expressed in terms of Special 
Drawing 
Rights as of the respective dates of withdrawals; and
(iii)
the subsidiary loan shall be charged (A) interest on the 
outstanding balance 
thereof at a rate of 0.875% per annum, 
and (B) commitment charge on the 
unwithdrawn balance thereof 
at the same rate applicable to the Credit pursuant 
to Section 
2.04 (a) of this Agreement.
(d)
 For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend, to NIB, for further on-lending to LDF pursuant to paragraph (e) of this 
Section 3.01, the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 
(3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under 
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NIB 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall 
include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid 
by NIB to the 
Borrower over sixteen (16) years, 
including a grace period of six (6) years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by NIB 
to the Borrower 
shall be the equivalent in dollars (determined 
as of the respective dates of 
repayment) of the value of the 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account 
in respect of the above-mentioned Category; and
(iii)
the subsidiary loan shall be charged (A) interest on the 
outstanding balance 
thereof at a rate of 0.875% per annum, 
and (B) commitment charge on the 
unwithdrawn balance thereof 
at the same rate applicable to the Credit pursuant 
to Section 
2.04 (a) of this agreement.
(e)
For the purpose of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
NIB under the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement to on-lend the proceeds of the 
Credit, lent to it under said Agreement, to LDF under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to be entered into between NIB and LDF under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.  Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, such terms shall include the following:
(i)
the principal of each amount of the subsidiary loan 
withdrawn by LDF shall be  repaid by LDF to NIB over ten years, 
Page  7
including a grace period of two years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by LDF 
shall be the 
equivalent in the currency of the Borrower 
(determined as of the respective  dates of withdrawal) of the value 
of the currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Credit Account 
in respect of Category (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Agreement; and
(iii)
the subsidiary loan shall be charged (A) interest on the 
outstanding balance 
thereof at the rate of 0.875% per annum, 
(B) commitment charge at the same 
rate applicable to 
Subsidiary Loan pursuant to paragraph (d) (iii) (B) of this 
Section 3.01, and (C) a foreign exchange fee on the outstanding 
balance 
thereof at the rate of 3% per annum.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PBDAC Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall cause NIB to 
exercise its rights under the LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PBDAC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof, and 
shall cause NIB not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the LDF Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by PBDAC and in respect 
of Part C of the Project shall be carried out by LDF pursuant to Section 2.04 of 
the respective Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out said Part.
Page  8
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association 
has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The other Co-financiers Agreements shall have failed to become 
effective by December 31, 1999, or such other date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds 
for the project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
PBDAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Page  9
PBDAC Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that PBDAC will be able to perform its obligations 
under the PBDAC Project Agreement.
(d)
LDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
LDF Project Agreement.
(e)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that LDF will be able to perform its obligations under 
the LDF Project Agreement.
(f)
The PBDAC Statutes or the LDF Statutes shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of PBDAC or LDF or its ability 
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the 
respective Project Agreement.
(g)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PBDAC or LDF or for 
the suspension of their operations.
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
pre-maturing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, 
PBDAC, NIB and LDF;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that 
Section.
Page  10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
have been fulfilled;
(b)
The PBDAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and PBDAC;
(c)
The NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and NIB; and
(d)
The LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the NIB and LDF.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the PBDAC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by PBDAC, and is legally binding upon PBDAC in accordance with its 
terms;
(b)
that the LDF Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by LDF, and is legally binding upon LDF in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the PBDAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PBDAC in accordance 
with its terms;
(d)
the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NIB in accordance with 
its terms; and
(e)
that the LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon NIB and LDF in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of State for Planning and International Cooperation and the Head of the 
Sector for International and Regional Financing Organizations of the Ministry of 
International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  11
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
(International and Regional Financing 
  Organizations Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Telex:
Ministry of International
390-5167
Cooperation, Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first 
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Page  12
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Part A of
   3,680,000
17%
the Project
(2)
Goods for Part A of
   1,480,000
32.5% of 
foreign
the Project
expenditures, 
32.5%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory 
costs)
and 28.5% of 
local
expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
     740,000
50%
and training for Part A
of the Project
(4)
For Part B of the
Project:
(a) Sub-loans
   4,460,000
23% of amounts 
paid
by PBDAC
(b) Goods, works and
     740,000
60%
training for subpart
(1) thereof
TOTAL
  11,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures for Parts A and 
B (1) of the Project under contracts not exceeding (i) $200,000 equivalent for 
goods and works, (ii) $100,000 equivalent for services of consulting firms, and 
(iii) $50,000 equivalent for services of individual consultants and training; 
and (b) for payments made by PBDAC and LDF under Parts B (2) and C (2) of the 
Project under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
Page  13
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote sustainable rural development 
in the Borrower’s Governorate of Sohag.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A: 
1.
Improving, through the provision of technical assistance, staff training, 
vehicles and office equipment, of the institutional capabilities of the 
Borrowers’ departments and agencies involved in rural development in Sohag to, 
inter-alia, coordinate and supervise effectively the implementation within Sohag 
of the Borrowers’ National Program for Integrated Rural Development.
2.
Expansion of economic, municipal and social infrastructures and of 
services in Sohag, including the construction of and provision of equipment and 
materials for: (a) irrigation and drainage systems, potable water and sewage 
facilities, rural roads, canal covering, veterinary centers, slaughterhouses, 
and environmental projects; and (b) health centers, classrooms, literacy 
centers, youth and women centers and clubs.
Part B:
1.
Development and carrying out by PBDAC of a program to strengthen its 
financial performance and institutional capability within the Governorate of 
Sohag and to support villagers access to PBDAC credit facilities offered in the 
Governorate of Sohag, including the provision therefor of technical assistance 
and training and office and field equipment and materials.
2.
Provision by PBDAC of loans: (a) made by PBDAC directly to (i) farmers for 
the purchase of agricultural machinery, and (ii) enterprises for the 
establishment and expansion of rural business, excluding those involved in the 
formulation, packaging and repackaging of pesticides and other hazardous 
chemicals, and (b) made by PBDAC, directly or through non-governmental 
organizations, to farmers, micro-enterprises and rural dwellers for the 
development of income-generating activities.
Part C:
1.
Carrying out by LDF of a program to strengthen its financial performance 
and institutional capability within the Governorate of Sohag and to support 
villagers access to LDF credit facilities offered therein, including the 
provision therefor of technical assistance and office and field equipment and 
materials.
2.
Provision by LDF of loans, made by LDF directly or through 
non-governmental organizations, to farmers, micro-enterprises and rural dwellers 
for the development of income-generating activities, excluding those involved in 
the formulation, packaging or repackaging of pesticides and other hazardous 
chemicals.
* * *
Page  14
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, 
and to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may, and works, except as 
provided in paragraph 3 of this part C, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 20,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Commercial Practice
Goods to be procured by Beneficiaries may be procured in accordance with 
the normal commercial practices of such Beneficiaries at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and 
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare 
parts therefor.
Page  15
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.  Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) the first three contracts for works to be procured 
pursuant to paragraph 3 Part C of this Schedule, the procedures for such prior 
review set forth as part of the procedures referred to in said paragraph 3, 
shall apply; and (b) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  16
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Association 
for the coordination and supervision of Project implementation and for the 
carrying out of Part A thereof (a) in accordance with the requirements and other 
details set forth or referred to in Part A Operations Manual, as said Manual 
shall be reviewed with the Association at such intervals as the Borrower or the 
Association shall request, and as the same may be updated with the agreement of 
the Association; (b) under the overall direction of the Governor of Sohag; and 
(c) under the direct authority of the General Secretary of Sohag, who will be 
designated as Project manager and be assisted in the management of Project 
Page  17
implementation by a Technical Secretariat maintained with resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) employ consultants with qualifications and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the carrying out of 
the Project, (b) develop under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and 
adopt by December 31, 1998 policies and procedures, satisfactory to the 
Association, for ensuring suitable financial management of the operation and 
maintenance, at the village level, of infrastructure works and (c) ensure that 
all works under the Project are designed and carried out in conformity with 
health safety and environmental protection guidelines established pursuant to 
health, safety, and environmental management plans carried out in accordance 
with guidelines agreed with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about (i) December 31 of each year, a 
report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding year, including appropriate audits with respect to compliance with the 
requirements of the Operations Manual, and (ii) December 31, 2001, a mid-term 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31 of each year, the 
reports referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section, and by March 31, 2002, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the mid-term report 
referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of Part A of the 
Project Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; in respect of Part B of the Project Category (2) set forth in the 
said table; and in respect of Part C of the Project Category (3) set forth in 
the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in respect of Part A of the 
Page  18
Project to $800,000; in respect of Part B of the Project to $800,000; and in 
respect of Part C of the Project to $200,000; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i) 
in respect of Part A of the Project shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent 
to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Category (1) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000;
(ii)
in respect of Part B of the Project shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent 
to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Category (2) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000; and
(iii)
in respect of Part C of the Project shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent 
to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Category (3) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part C of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $500,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
Page  19
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Category for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Part of the Project 
related to that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Category for that Special Account shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
