Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3127-EGT
LDF Project Agreement
(Sohag Rural Development  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated November 4, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3127-EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Local Development Fund (LDF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Arab Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million 
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
LDF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NIB part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to NIB for further on-lending to LDF on terms and 
conditions set forth in the NIB Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the LDF Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS LDF in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, and in the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of LDF
Section 2.01. LDF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out part C of the  \0cProject and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Association and LDF shall otherwise agree, LDF shall: (a) 
carry out Part C of the Project and ensure that Sub-loans under subpart (2) thereof, 
including the arrangements for the making of sub-loans thereunder through 
non-governmental organizations, shall be made, in accordance with the requirements and 
other details set forth or referred to in Part C Operations Manual, as said Manual 
shall be reviewed with the Association at such intervals as the Association or LDF 
shall request, and as the same may be updated with the agreement of the Association; 
(b) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, to assist in carrying out the same; (c) complete, by December30, 1999, 
the implementation of the program to strengthen its financial performance referred to 
in Part C (1) of the Project; and (d) provide the Borrower with the information 
required by the Borrower for the purpose of preparing the reports referred to in 
Section 3 of Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods by Beneficiary under Part C (2) of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) LDF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the LDF Project Agreement and Part C 
of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, LDF shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
LDF, a plan for ensuring the 
continued achievement of the objectives of Part C 
of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with LDF on 
said plan.
Section 2.05. LDF shall duly perform all its obligations under the LDF 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDF shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) LDF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
performance of its \0cobligations under this Agreement and under the LDF Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
LDF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LDF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the LDF Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) LDF shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and of each subproject (including its cost and 
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of LDF.
(b)
LDF shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
LDF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify LDF of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Local Development Fund
Local Development Fund
1, Nadi El Seid St.
Dokki
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Fax:
337-4734
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LDF or by LDF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Chairman of the Board, or by such other person or persons as LDF shall 
designate in writing, and LDF shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Ibrahim Muharram
Authorized Representative
