                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000827




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (COFN-04420 IDA-31270)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 30.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                     FOR A

                   SOHAG RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                December 31, 2008,




Sustainable Development Department
Arab Republic of Egypt
Middle East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective April 9, 2008)

                                      Currency Unit =
                            Egyptian Pound 1.00 = US$ 0.184
                            US$ 1.00 = 5.44 Egyptian Pounds

                                      FISCAL YEAR

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMP   Agricultural Modernization Project
BDAC  Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CDA   Community Development Association
CDD   Community Driven Development
DO    Development Objective
EEEA  Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EMP   Environmental Management Plan
EMU   Environmental Management Unit
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FAOCP Food Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FDF   Family Development Fund
FI    Financial Intermediaries
FM    Financial Management
GOE   Government of Egypt
GOS   Governorate of Sohag
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA   International Development Association
IFAD  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IP    Implementation Progress
ISR   Implementation Status and Results Report
LAU   Local Administrative Unit
LDF   Local Development Fund
MALR  Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS   Management Information System
MLA   Ministry of Local Administration
MOIC  Ministry of International Cooperation
MTR   Mid Term Review
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
NIB   National Investment Bank
NPV   Net Present Value
O&M   Operation and Maintenance
ORDEV Organization for the Reconstruction and Development of the Egyptian Village
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PBDAC Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PDO   Project Development Objectives
PI    Performance Indicators
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PRA   Participatory Rural Assessment
PSADP Private Sector Agriculture Development Project
QAG   World Bank Quality Assurance Group
QEA   Quality at Entry Assessment


                                               ii

QSA     Quality of Supervision Assessment
SA      Special Account
SEPSS   Socio-Economic and Production Systems Baseline Study
SFD     Social Fund for Development
SHROUK National Program for Integrated Rural Development
SRDP    Sohag Rural Development Project
TA      Technical Assistance
TAS     Technical Assistance Secretariat
TTL     Task Team Leader
UK-DFID United Kingdom-Department for International Development
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development


                                 Vice President: Daniela Gressani

                               Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi

                               Sector Manager: Luis Constantino

                           Project Team Leader: M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie Oppong

                              ICR Team Leader: M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie Oppong




                                                iii

                                     Arab Republic of Egypt
                           Sohag Rural Development Project

                                               CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summar
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I.  Disbursement Profile

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..................................................1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................6
   3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................13
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................21
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................22
   6. Lessons Learned ..........................................................................................................27
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..............29

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...............................................................................30
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component.......................................................................................31
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ......................................................................51
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..................60
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.................................................................................62
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results........................................................66
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...........................72
   Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................86
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................87
   MAP




                                                         iv

A. Basic Information

                        Egypt, Arab Republic                           EG - SOHAG Rural
Country:                                        Project Name:
                        of                                             Development
                                                                       COFN-04420,IDA-
Project ID:             P040858                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       31270
ICR Date:               12/31/2008              ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 18.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 18.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Governoate of Sohag
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/10/1996     Effectiveness:        10/17/2000         10/17/2000
Appraisal:             11/15/1997     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/27/1998     Mid-term Review:                         09/25/2003
                                      Closing:              06/30/2005         04/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry     Moderately
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):               Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  42                  1
General public administration sector                              19                  5
Micro- and SME finance                                            11                 12
Other social services                                             14                 74
Water supply                                                      14                  8


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                          Primary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary           Primary
Rural markets                                                   Secondary       Not Applicable
Rural non-farm income generation                                 Primary          Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                    Kemal Dervis
Country Director:         Emmanuel Mbi                        Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:           Luis F. Constantino                 Salah Dargouth
Project Team Leader:      M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie Oppong         Jean-Francois L. Barres
ICR Team Leader:          Ayat Soliman
ICR Primary Author:       Juan Morelli




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary project development objective is to support the sustainable development of
Sohag rural villages through the participatory approach initiated by the National Program
for Integrated Rural Development (Shrouk). The Project will aim to: (i) improve income
and quality of life among the rural communities; (ii) improve equitable access to credit
for the rural poor, unemployed women; and (iii) enhance capacity of local communities
and local government at the village level to prepare, implement and manage rural
infrastructure projects and services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of village participation in investment & recovery of O&M for rural
                infrastructure
Value
quantitative or Investment: n/a            Investment: 20%                   Investment: 5%

Qualitative)    O&M: 50%                   O&M: 100%                         O&M: 43%

Date achieved 11/30/2000                   06/30/2005                        04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Original targets were overly ambitious and unrealistic. These targets were

achievement)    reduced to %% and 30% respectively during the MTR.

Indicator 2 :   % of infrastructure & services benefiting isolated hamlets
Value
quantitative or 0                          75%                               81%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2000                   06/30/2005                        04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement surpassed the target by 8%
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   % of surveyed households reporting improvement in living conditions post sub-
                project implementation
Value
quantitative or 0                          98%                               71%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2000                   06/30/2005                        04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement reached 83.5% of the original target
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Volume of credit benefiting women


                                                iii

               No. of women provided with ID cards
Value
quantitative or 0                       US$ 2.7 million                  US$1.7 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2000                04/30/2005                       04/30/2008
Comments        Achievement was 63% of the amount targeted. 53% of LDF loans were for
(incl. %        women (target was 50%) and 33% of BDAC loans went for women (target was
achievement)    50%)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from                      Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values   Target Years

Indicator 1 :   % of women representatives in Shrouk village committee meetings held by
                project
Value
(quantitative   5%                      25%                              33%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2000                04/30/2005                       04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement was surpassed by 32%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Amount of sectoral budget channeled through project
Value
(quantitative   0                       N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2000                04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                         IP              Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     06/30/1999          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/29/1999          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  3     06/23/2000          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  4     10/24/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  5     04/11/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.40
  6     10/26/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.43
  7     04/10/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.98
  8     07/25/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.84
  9     11/22/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.55



                                             iv

  10  03/19/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     3.94
  11  09/22/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     5.67
  12  11/12/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     5.77
  13  04/29/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     6.93
  14  10/29/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     9.79
  15  04/15/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    13.30
  16  06/21/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    16.42
  17  12/21/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    18.72
  18  06/27/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    20.29
  19  12/21/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    21.06
  20  07/11/2007        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    24.09
  21  01/18/2008        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    26.21
  22  05/06/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory    27.09



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

                          1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Sohag Rural Development Project was a pioneering project in many respects. It was the first
project in Egypt to go sub-national and directly finance a Governorate. It was also one of the first
projects in the World Bank's MENA portfolio to3 adopt participatory and gender inclusive
methodologies modeled on the SHROUK system . The project was also significant for the
Egyptian setting in that it instituted participatory frameworks with large infrastructure works
projects, moving beyond small scale pilots ­ all important achievements particularly given the
socially conservative setting. These features were important and innovative precursors and
predated not only the later CDD models adopted by the Bank in the early 2000's but also the
decentralization agenda ­ an ongoing priority for the Government of Egypt (GoE) and one which               4
at the time of project preparation was expected to accelerate faster than it did.

The project is characterized by two distinct implementation periods ­ pre and post Mid-Term-
Review (MTR). Project preparation and early implementation (from 1999 to 2003 and prior to
MTR) coincided with a challenging period in WB/ GoE relations and dialogue - a period in
which Egypt had recently graduated from IDA and was settling into its IBRD status. Indeed
effectiveness and disbursement delays - which characterized this first period - were common to
all Bank projects in Egypt at that time. At Mid-Term when it was clear that the full scope of the
rural finance component was unlikely to be realized the credit component was significantly
scaled down and funds were re-allocated towards infrastructure. From Mid Term onwards the
performance of the project on both the Bank and the Borrower side improved significantly.

Overall, and despite project design flaws and implementation difficulties, the project largely
achieved its Project Development Objectives (PDO's). The weaknesses in the credit component
were somewhat offset by the significant contributions which were made in terms of improving
access to and quality of public infrastructure services in rural areas through enhanced
participation structures and mechanisms at the local level.




1.1 Context at Appraisal


Country and Sector Background:                             In the early 1990's the Government embarked on a
comprehensive structural adjustment program to achieve a sustainable macro-economic balance
for renewed economic growth5. To minimize the impact of reforms on vulnerable groups, a


3National Program for Integrated Rural Development (SHROUK) under the Ministry of Local Administration. Its long-term
objective was to decentralize planning and implementation of rural development to local communities, using village structures as
the base.
4
 The Decentralization agenda continues to be a priority of the GoE and a request for World Bank programmatic technical
assistance support to the Decentralization program of Egypt was recently (January 2008) requested from the Minister of Local
Development in Egypt.
5Reforms resulted in: the adoption of a competitive exchange rate; liberalization of interest rates; rationalization of import tariffs
and removal of import bans and subsidies; and reduction of fiscal deficits to improve the climate for private investment and trade.
In the agricultural sector: (i) removal of controls on crop area, product quotas and product prices; (ii) removal of input subsidies
and freeing its distribution; (iii) raising of lending rates towards commercial levels; (iv) privatization of agricultural production
companies and of state-owned lands; (v) liberalization of land tenancy laws; (vi) liberalization of trade of the sugar sub-sector.


                                                                    1

US$600 million Social Fund for Development (SFD) was established in 1991 and a second
multi-donor SFD Project for US$775 million was approved in 19966. In order to tackle poverty
on as broad a front as possible, the GOE also created, in 1994 the National Program for
Integrated Rural Development (SHROUK) under the Ministry of Local Administration. Its long-
term objective was to decentralize planning and implementation of rural development to local
communities, using village structures as the base. At the Sohag Rural Development Project
(SRDP) appraisal in 1997, SHROUK pilot programs had already started throughout the country,
including in Sohag. Key features of the approach included commitments by local communities to
share in the costs of infrastructure development, collaboration at local level between ministerial
representatives, popularly elected local councils and members of SHROUK (government, NGOs
and local volunteers) in agreeing on priorities.


Sohag continues to be one of the poorest governorates in Egypt. At that time of project
preparation, its population of 3 million was 77 percent rural, had about 209,000 farming and
150,000 landless households on only 320,000 feddans of fertile land, suffering from poor
drainage. Livestock, wheat, sorghum, berseem and cotton were the main products. Despite
efforts by the government and NGOs, 70 percent of the adult population was illiterate (84
percent of women), 30 percent of villages had no potable water supply systems nor health
facilities and 90 percent no sanitation.


Rationale for Bank Assistance: The project supported two major objectives of the Egypt CAS
for FY98-2000 including: (i) improvement of rural income; and (ii) natural resources
management. It was intended that it would contribute to the following progress benchmarks of
the CAS in the Sohag Governorate: (i) improvement in cost recovery of O&M and (ii) increased
agricultural production. It was also in line with the Agricultural Strategy for the 1990s7 which
emphasized: (a) the need to ensure increased productivity and sustainability in the management
and utilization of natural resources; (b) the promotion of private sector development; (c) the need
to implement measures for the agriculture sector within an overall rural development strategy;
(d) the need for social safety nets to ease the social impact of the reform program; and (e) the
need to initiate a program of institutional reform to deliver agricultural services responsive to
farmers'needs8.


In addition, this project complemented the on-going: (i) Agricultural Modernization Project,
(AMP) which was supporting the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit's
(PBDAC) institutional and financial restructuring, by providing support at the regional level in
one of the poorest governorates; and (ii) SFD II Project by increasing the planning and
implementation capacity of the local administration and the local communities in Sohag.


6 The Fund financed infrastructure (water, sanitation, roads, etc.), community development (upgrading of health and education)
and micro-enterprise development credits throughout Egypt. Community groups, NGOs and local government departments were
preparing project proposals which were then screened by SFD staff at local and central level.
7 The strategy was prepared in 1993 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR). It identified the need to
implement measures for the agricultural sector within the context of an overall rural development strategy, including diversifying
rural activities and providing key services, sustainable intensification of production and essential social programs.
8 It was also consistent with the 1997 Bank's Strategy "From Vision to Action in the Rural Sector": (i) decentralized and
participatory planning; execution and financing of rural programs and services; (ii) special efforts to bring improved and
appropriate technologies, capacities and resources to rural areas; and (iii) focus on the development of country-specific rather
than regional and global sector strategies. The project was specifically listed in the CAS.


                                                                   2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The primary project development objective was to support the sustainable development of Sohag
rural villages through the participatory approach initiated by the National Program for Integrated
Rural Development (Shrouk). The Project aimed to: (i) improve income and quality of life
among the rural communities; (ii) improve equitable access to credit for the rural poor,
unemployed youth and women; and (iii) enhance capacity of local communities and local
government at the village level to prepare, implement and manage rural infrastructure projects
and services.


Key PDO indicators included: (i) 100 percent contribution of beneficiaries to O&M for new
infrastructure after three years; (ii) 75 percent of infrastructure benefiting isolated hamlet
villages; and (iii) 98 percent recovery rate of credit from the Sohag Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (BDAC) and the Local Development Fund (LDF). Key output indicators
included: (i) all 51 Local Administrative Units (LAUs) participating in SRDP; (ii) 20 percent
average beneficiaries' participation in investment costs; and (iii) 50 percent of beneficiaries of
LDF and BDAC micro-credit line are women.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators


The PDO was not formally revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries


The primary beneficiaries of the project as stated in the PDO's were specifically the rural poor,
unemployed youth and women. In addition, and more broadly, the project identified ten other
beneficiary and "affected groups": the population of Sohag Governorate Villages, Village Rural
Development Committees, Village Rural Development Delegates, Community Development
Associations and other local NGO's, Local Popular Councils, Village Executive Councils,
District Executive Councils, Rural and Governorate Rural Development Councils.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Three complementary components to be co-financed by an IDA Credit and a IFAD Loan (US$25
million each) would contribute to the achievement of the PDOs:


Local Institutions Strengthening component (US$6.43 million) would support: (i) the
strengthening of the SHROUK's Sohag Governorate Program through the establishment of a
Technical Assistance Secretariat (TAS) under the General Secretary of the Governorate; (ii)
Governorate and the Districts to assist Village Local Administrative Units (LAUs) in
complementing and rehabilitating physical infrastructure through training and awareness
campaigns in issues such as the environment, health, literacy, obtaining ID cards, etc.; and
promotion of regional workshops on micro-finance and micro-credit, involving Banks, LDF,
community organizations, donors and LAUs; and (iii) other line ministries in Sohag, to enable


                                                 3

them to interact better with the village participatory process. The project would finance training
and technical assistance (TA) to develop institutional capacity and interagency coordination.


Village Infrastructure Component (US$60.6 million) would support Village Priority
Development Plans identified, prepared and co-financed by the Sohag villages through the
SHROUK participatory process, in interaction and with the support of the LAUs and line
ministries technical services. In particular, the project would co-finance: (i) economic and
municipal infrastructure (village water supply systems, wastewater and sanitation systems, small
irrigation and drainage systems, rural roads, canal covering in village streets, veterinary units
(VUs), slaughterhouses, environmental projects, etc.); (ii) social infrastructure and services
(health centers, classrooms, literacy centers, youth centers, women's clubs, etc.); and (iii) O&M
plans for village infrastructure. The project's financial contribution would be based on matching
grants with up-front village participation of at least 10 percent (land, labor or cash) and a
maximum subproject size of US$500,000. NGOs and private companies would be contracted to:
(a) help create local maintenance committees where they did not exist; (b) provide training in
maintenance of physical facilities based on manuals to be developed jointly with ORDEV and
Line Ministries with participation of local communities; and (c) train local committees in fund
raising techniques, fund administration, management, and supervision.


Rural Finance Component (US$26.7 million) would help to improve standards of living of the
rural poor by: (a) promoting increased economic activities; and (b) open access to credit for
women and the ultra-poor. It was to be achieved through two sub-components: (i) On-farm
Technology Improvement and Rural-Based Investment (US$20.7 million) for providing long-
term resources through a line of credit to increase agricultural productivity and rural income9 and
institutional support to the Sohag BDAC which would complement ongoing PBDAC efforts to
address financial and managerial problems10; and (ii) Micro-Credit for Income Generation
(US$5.9 million) through Sohag BDAC and LDF to develop market- oriented credit delivery for
income-generating activities by the rural poor with special emphasis on women, in a competitive
and financially sustainable manner. Two different mechanisms for the delivery of micro-credit
that had previously been successfully applied in Egypt were to be implemented: (a) community-
based lending (US$2.7 million) as a special wholesale credit window for NGOs targeted towards
women on a model inspired by the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh11; and (b) individual micro-
credit (US$2.7 million) as a pilot line of credit for innovative credit delivery through existing
banking institutions. A third portion of the subcomponent would go for (c) institutional building
of LDF (US$0.5 million).



9 The line of credit for Agricultural Production and Rural Investments would augment the resource position of Sohag BDAC and
make available to it a core base of long-term funds for on-lending giving BDAC the opportunity to address its critical financial
issues more effectively. It would finance: (i) seasonal and short-term credit; (ii) medium-term credit (up to 5 years) for tractors,
agricultural machinery hire services, mills, livestock fattening, dairy processing; and (iii) long-term credit for (over 5 years) land
development and agribusiness for vegetable and milk collection and processing units, private veterinary clinics, etc.
10  BDAC problems were being reviewed by an ongoing financial management study supported by the Agricultural
Modernization Project (AMP - CPL-37190; IDA-25850). The findings of the study of PBDAC and Sohag BDAC were to be
translated into an institutional building and business plans which would be submitted to IDA for review and approval before June
30, 1999. The SRDP would finance transportation and office equipment, training and technical assistance.
11The community based credit model had been designed following a UNICEF program in Sohag and 3 other governorates, under
the Family Development Fund (FDF). The individual credit model was based on the Special Innovation Funds initiated by the
Government of Netherlands with the Menufia and El Sharkiya BDACs.


                                                                  4

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not formally revised during implementation. In spite of 22 months of
effectiveness delay (delayed effectiveness was common to all pipeline projects in the Egypt
portfolio at that time), and three years of slow implementation, the MTR12 (September 2003)
considered the project to be performing well and agreed to considerably scale down the credit
component by closing the On-farm Technology Improvement and Rural-Based Investment
subcomponent (US$20.7 million) and increase efforts on the Micro-Credit subcomponent.
Additionally, given the non-compliance of the GOE commitment to allocate the agreed funds to
cover their share in the infrastructure component costs it was agreed to: (i) re-allocate SDR 5
million of IDA Credit (at the time US$7.35 million) and a similar amount from IFAD Loan
originally assigned from the credit component to goods to support additional O&M equipment,
and to the village infrastructure component; and (ii) increase from 25 / 50 to 85 percent the IDA
and IFAD disbursement percentages for works under the infrastructure component.


The actions taken at Mid-Term appear to have been timely, appropriate and necessary and the re-
allocation had the intended outcome with project performance and disbursement increasing post
mid-term with particular improvement in the infrastructure component. These MTR component's
scope modifications and re-allocation of funds were brought to management attention by the
Task Team. Formal restructuring was considered but due to the weak status of the WB - GoE
dialogue at that time management decided against submitting a formal restructuring request to
the Bank Board. The Amendment to the Credit Agreements was approved by Bank Management
and effected on September 30, 2004.

1.7 Other significant changes

After the MTR, TAS and the Bank supervision made renewed and persistent efforts to
implement the micro-credit subcomponent. While the individual micro-credit was at last
mobilized in 2006, it was not possible to start the community micro-credit line through NGOs
due to a systematic resistance from BDAC authorities to working with NGOs.13 The decision
was taken in December 2007 to halt further attempts at on-lending to NGO's.

The project original closing date for the IDA Credit was (appropriately) extended twice from
June 30, 2005 to April 30, 2008; and for the IFAD Loan to June 30, 2008. (See Section 2.2.
under "Project Extensions" for details).

                        2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes



12The MTR considered the project as satisfactory in spite of: (i) only 17.5 % of the IDA Credit and 7.4% of the IFAD Loan
amounts were disbursed; and (ii) no progress had been made in the credit component: "... constraints in achieving sound
financial and managerial systems for the Sohag BDAC continue to persist, with no progress made in elaborating the required
rehabilitation plan as per the PBDAC project agreement. Project sub loans disbursed so far are in many cases used to supplement
the normal credit needs of existing borrowers rather than expand to diversify into new activities and beneficiaries." MTR, 2003.
13A number of intractable problems prevented the establishment of indirect lending activities. The main one was that banking
regulations preclude from lending if no sizeable guaranties are taken and NGOs generally can't offer them. The decision was
taken in December 2007 to halt further attempts at on-lending to NGO's by PBDAC.




                                                                5

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


Project Preparation
The project was requested by GOE to "increase the agricultural productivity, to adopt a more
efficient utilization of water, to enhance credit provision to farmers and to farmer-related private
sector services, and as a result to increase farmers' income in Sohag Governorate."14 It was then
identified during a World Bank/IFAD joint mission fielded in July 1995, followed by a WB/FAO
Concept Paper inception mission in November 1995, which ran in parallel with a coordinated
Socio-Economic and Production Systems baseline Study (SEPSS). It developed into a project
concept document in October 1996. The project, therefore, had a long preparation period with a
concept review in October 1996 and approval in August 1998. In terms of Government
Commitment during preparation, the project was requested by the Government of Egypt, had the
commitment of the Sohag Governor and the local costs of preparation were financed by the
borrower.


Project Design
The key design aspect of SRDP was that it was the first project to go sub-national and directly
finance a Governorate, adopting the participatory and gender inclusive methodology for selection
of infrastructure, and at the same time being flexible in terms of sub-project selection based on
actual needs and in line with full participatory annual work plan formulation. These features
were important precursors and innovative as they predated the later CDD models which the Bank
adopted in the early 2000's. They were also significant for the Egyptian setting in pushing the
envelope and instituting participatory frameworks with large infrastructure works projects,
moving beyond small scale pilots.


This project was designed during the period of integrated rural development projects and was
complex and overambitious with aspects which were not consistent in the PAD, or not
adequately detailed (TA, institutional capacity analysis of the Financial Intermediaries (FIs),
linkages between implementing agencies, components, activities, outputs and outcomes, etc). In
addition, known lessons learned were not incorporated into the project. For example, a lesson
learned from previous Bank projects was that project ought to be implemented under a single
institution. Despite acknowledging this lesson in the PAD, the project was designed with three
institutions playing an implementing role. Sohag Governorate had overall implementation and
coordination responsibility, and Sohag PBDAC (BDAC) and LDF implemented their respective
components. The project designers justified their decision by noting that the three agencies
would have, "complementary but clearly defined roles." Furthermore the Quality at Entry
Assessment (see below) noted that there was a moderate risk (understated in the PAD) to
working with more than one institution particularly if the institutions did not coordinate.


Quality at Entry



14Letter from the Ministry of International Cooperation, January 24, 1995. It was attached with a SRDP proposal prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) in collaboration with IFAD and suggested four components to be
considered: Credit, Extension Services, Enterprise Development Unit, and Project Management Unit.


                                                               6

A Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) was carried out (November 1999) by the Bank. The
overall assessment was that the project was only marginally satisfactory, with just the
environmental and social-stakeholder aspects being classified as satisfactory. Factors assessed as
marginal were: the project concept, objectives and approach; technical and economic aspects;
financial management aspects; institutional capacity analysis; readiness for implementation; and
risk assessment and sustainability. Although the QEA found the project's concept of local and
small scale development appropriate the assessment panel raised a number of issues that needed
to be addressed in the first years of the project implementation to improve its prospects for
success. The QEA noted that the capacity of the Governorate of Sohag was not yet adequate for
implementation and that apart from the water supply sub projects the operational manual was not
ready. In addition, BDAC had no demonstrated capacity for extending microcredit, was not
ready to on-lend (and the QEA panel had doubts about if it ever would be) and there was no
clarity as to what needed to be achieved before disbursements could occur. Finally there was no
evidence of a Project Implementation Plan.


In terms of risk assessment and mitigation measures on institutional capacity, there was no
analysis of the capabilities or incentives within the Governorate of Sohag to carry out the
assigned tasks and the operational manual was not ready. The capacity of the Governorate of
Sohag, LDF and BDAC was identified as limited by the QEA panel who further indicated that it
was unclear at project inception whether the level of support from the project would be
sufficient.

2.2 Implementation

The second half of the project period ­ specifically from MTR onwards - was characterized by a
steadily improving disbursement profile and satisfactory project implementation after initial
delays experienced in early project implementation. All implementation performance ratings ­
bar two - rated the project as satisfactory and dissatisfaction with early project implementation
(due to effectiveness delays) was reflected in the unsatisfactory implementation ratings given to
the project in the ISR's dated 12/29/99 and 6/23/00.15 Overall, the following issues impacted
project implementation:


Effectiveness Delays: Board approval occurred in August 1998, but loan effectiveness was
delayed until October 2000 due to: (i) indecision on the part of Government of Egypt as to
whether the project met its criteria for foreign earnings, complicated by (ii) a violent incident in
Sohag Governorate16 and (iii) effectiveness conditions relating to the ratification of the
subsidiary loan agreements for the credit component between GOE and PBDAC and between the
National Investment Bank (NIB) and LDF and the formal ratification of the IFAD loan
agreement.17 The long delay in effectiveness negatively affected the implementation of the

15 (i) In December 1999, sixteen months after Board presentation, the project had still not been declared effective and the
effectiveness deadline had to be extended until May 3, 200015. (ii) In June 2000 there was a continued delay in project
effectiveness (see above). The credit component was classified as unsatisfactory reflecting the general status of rural financial
institutions in Egypt, where PBDAC and its provincial subsidiary BDACs were the only banks with branches in rural areas, but
owing to past weaknesses some of them such as Sohag BDAC were loss making. The Institutional Development and
Infrastructure components implementation progress was also rated as unsatisfactory as these activities had not yet started.
16The incident, in which several people lost their lives , was suspected to have been caused by fundamentalists led to caution on
the part of the Government and a desire to undertake additional investigations prior to project launch;
17Parliament adjourned without reviewing the IFAD agreement


                                                                  7

project during the early years, resulting in cost increases and beneficiaries' skepticism.
Devaluation of the local currency (2001-2003) and Egyptian regulations that precluded the
application of price escalation adjustments also contributed to some contractors not being able to
complete the works on time.


Task Team Leaders: The project involved five TTLs over a period of thirteen years from the
start of preparation in 1995. (See Section 5.1 b ­ Quality of Supervision for details). In most
cases, the new TTLs were part of the project team for a period of time before assuming the
leadership, which helped greatly with the transition process. The start up of implementation after
the effectiveness delay came with a new TTL who had to handle a complex design under
changed circumstances over time. The project implementation continued to improve from Mid-
term onwards.           In spite of another TTL turnover after the mid-term review, project
implementation continued to improve from that point onwards.


MTR Re-allocation of Funds: The Bank was flexible and proactive in making substantial
budget revisions and re-allocating funds from the credit component to the other 2 components at
MTR after the failure and closure of the AMP18 (See section 5.1b on Supervision). The MTR
recognized that use of the credit component funds were extremely delayed (LDF first
disbursement in October 2005) largely as a result of overestimation of PBDAC and LDF abilities
to function as independent financial intermediaries (FIs), there it was concluded that it was
unlikely that full scope of the rural finance component could be carried out and this resulted in
the changes in the use of the budget, particularly in revoking the line of credit for BDAC for
agricultural investments, but maintaining the draw-down of the micro-credit component. The
budget revision also increased the provision for procuring goods for the purposes of road
maintenance and solid waste management as a result of a request from the GOS in response to
the Bank's call for action to be taken on the implementation of an effective O&M at the GOS,
line ministry and LAU levels.

Funds for Supervision of Large Sub-projects: Line Ministries were responsible for the
supervision of construction of the small sub-projects (less than $0.25 million) and consultants for
the larger sub-projects. The Project did not provide sufficient funds for adequate supervision of
large sub-projects especially after the delays in implementation as MOIC would not allow re-
allocation of funds for TA. It took a great deal of persuasion after the start of the Project to get
MOIC to approve an ample TA component including the Technical Assistance Secretariat (TAS)
to support project implementation.

Land Allocation for Sanitation Projects: Land allocation for the sanitation projects, which
required "large" land areas for treatment (oxidation) ponds and agricultural farms for the use of
treated water, also caused delays. At project closing, GOS still had not allocated the necessary
funds for the development of the forestry farms, which would use the treated water from the
oxidization ponds. This resulted in the three completed sanitation projects being still un-
operational after two years of completion.



18The unsatisfactory outcome of the AMP and its closure in June 2001 impacted on the SRDP as the PAD had assumed that the
PBDAC/AMP would complement SRDP, and the expected results of the on-going financial management study at the time would
help introduce modern accounting and banking practices for allowing a good performance of the rural financing component.


                                                              8

Disbursement: Disbursement of IDA and IFAD funds was linked to the co-payment of
counterpart funds, which in turn were used to cover the taxes portion of contractors and suppliers
invoices. Disbursement delays were affected by the unavailability of adequate amounts of
counterpart funds at the early stage of the project life, which also affected the timely
implementation progress over that period.

Role of IFAD during Implementation: IFAD actively participated in a number of key
supervision missions. Personnel from its headquarters as well as from the Cairo regional office
joined the World Bank missions both in Cairo and in Sohag. In addition, IFAD employed for a
certain period of time, a Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant to help in shaping the Project's
monitoring system.

Project Extensions: The project was extended twice ­ for thirty two months in August 2004 and
for a further twelve months in March 2007. The first extension was requested by the GOE in
March 2004 and was made conditional upon implementation progress by August 2004 under the
education, health and social sub-sectors and their resulting impacts as measured by key
performance indicators. The second extension was requested by the Chairman of LDF to
continue lending activities and meet the demands for loan requests. A third request for extension
received by the Bank on April 10, 2008, requesting an extension until December 30, 2008 was
declined by the World Bank.19

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project was appraised at a time (1997) when the Bank was less focused on Monitoring and
Evaluation and had very different standards than today. The M&E aspects of the project were
therefore not adequately addressed, by today's standards, during preparation and implementation
by the Bank and Implementation Agencies (details in Annex 2, Part B). Specifically, the
modalities of collecting appropriate M&E data were not clearly presented and the costs involved
in this exercise were not included in the project budget. The M&E design in the PAD suffered
from flaws. Over 31 performance indicators were identified and the targets set for most of them
were either (a) overambitious (i.e. 100 percent O&M financed by beneficiaries after 3 years); (b)
non-specific (i.e. "percent of households with access to basic infrastructure to be determined
during implementation"); or (c) solely input-related (all indicators for components 2 and 3).
Successive Bank supervision missions provided erratic advice and follow up. The MTR openly
recognized that the PAD contained overambitious goals and revised downwards targets for
beneficiaries' contribution to O&M costs. In addition, the implementation of the Shorouk
approach in particular would have benefited from more direct measures of community
participation beyond the numbers of women trained and a more creative mobilization of
information to demonstrate the process by which it was implemented and not only the outcomes.

The implementation of the M&E function also suffered from weak capacity and supervision. The
first TAS team (2000-2005) did not have a position specifically assigned to M&E and no specific
budget allocation made. Capacity flaws were identified from the first supervision mission, but no

19 The World Bank declined the third extension due to: the advanced age of the operation (approved in August 1998); the
previous two extensions and; continuing performance issues regarding the component for which an extension was sought
(PBDAC microcredit) and the unlikelihood that the extension would significantly improve the disbursement performance under
this component.


                                                            9

training was recommended. The situation was improved in the second TAS team (2005-2008)
but no training was recommended by WB mission until 2006 (not implemented). The only M&E
training actually implemented was agreed in 2007 and initiated in January 2008, four months
before closure. No baseline survey has been undertaken and the SEPSS study which formed the
basis for the project concept and identification had been forgotten. BDAC and LDF regarded
monitoring of their credit lines simply as a loan requirement. After closure, no
institutionalization of M&E activities is expected to take place within the three implementing
agencies.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was correctly classified as environmental category B, an assessment conforming to
OP4.01. This classification resulted in a consistent rating in the Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) as satisfactory.20 The majority of the civil works were small scale and with moderate
environmental impact. Best practice for mitigation were as far as possible followed and all sub-
projects were submitted to SHROUK derived planning processes, which also encompassed
environmental and social safeguard issues. Sub-project environmental applications went to the
Governorate Environmental Affairs Department and then to the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency (EEEA) in Cairo for approval. Questions of land ownership and allocation were
automatically included in the planning process. Generally most of the sub-projects were in the
Class B category (moderate impact). There were no major environmental or social issues, with
the unresolved exception of a requirement by the Department of Antiquities for a payment for
due diligence survey work at a sanitation project adjacent to the Abydos Monument site. The
lack of due diligence with respect to cultural heritage near the monument suggests that not only
should this safeguard probably have been triggered but that it was not appropriately handled and
is a lesson learned for future projects. The only detailed environmental analysis was for water
supply projects where water quality tests were undertaken (mainly for the presence of
magnesium and iron) by the Department of Health. Further details of planning and
environmental/social safeguards process used by the project are given in Annex 2, Part B.1.

The project has had a positive environmental and social impact, largely through the reduced
exposure to water-borne health hazards as a result of the construction of water supply and
Sanitation projects, as well as irrigation canal coverings. Other social benefits have come from
the improved access (and time saving) to social facilities, such as social/youth centers, schools
and clinics. Environmental and health awareness training was also given under the project but
the synergy that was expected with the UK-DFID financed Support to Environmental
Assessment and Management project (SEAM) in the Governorate did not occur.


Financial Management: Implementation carried out by GOS was satisfactory: quarterly reports
were generated on time, giving detailed breakdowns at contract level; flow of funds was
acceptable; and audit reports were submitted in a timely way, although quality was an issue of
concern. PBDAC performance involved frequent FM issues: fund flows did not run smoothly;
reporting was delayed; audit reports were submitted late; and reporting lines between Sohag

20Natural habitats (OP 4.04), forests (OP 4.36), indigenous people (OP 4.10), involuntary settlement (OP 4.12), safety of dams
(OP 4.37), impacts on international waters (OP 7.50) and impacts on disputed areas (OP 7.60) all classified as not applicable.
Pest management (OP 4.09) and physical cultural resources (OP 4.11) were not rated in the PAD. Physical cultural resources
subsequently rated as satisfactory.


                                                              10

BDAC and village banks was not clearly defined. LDF funds were initially delayed but
disbursements later picked up. However, the flow of funds - from IDA/IFAD to the LDF units in
Sohag - was not smooth due to the channeling of funds from the World Bank through the NIB
then to the LDF head office and finally to Sohag LDF units. This had resulted in a lengthy
process and occasional bottlenecks which was further complicated by an initial low SA ceiling.
Audits were completed for financial years 2002 to 2006, with separate audits for PBDAC and
LDF. At this point the 2007 audited accounts of part B implemented by PBDAC are still due.
The auditor was finally hired but the report is not expected before end of September 2008.


Procurement: Having more than one sector implement the contract packages under the
infrastructure component contributed to the inconsistencies in the level of quality of the
procurement process and related documentation (bidding documents, evaluation reports etc.). In
spite of having TAS as a central unit for the activities of these sectors however each sector
followed its own set of rules. The standard document and forms that TAS distributed among the
sectors was not pursued as a tool to improve the procurement process but rather an additional
requirement to satisfy eligibility of financing of contracts. Hence the sector that could be
categorized as "better" performers continued to proceed at that level while others who had the
opportunity to improve their procurement processes did not. The impact of having TAS and
Bank staff train sector personnel on the procurement procedures and contract management was
not reflected in improving the sectors level of performance. They continued "business as usual"
as far as contract management is concerned.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The PAD had highly ambitious targets for O&M of village infrastructure with an expected 100
percent contribution from the beneficiaries to O&M after three years and that village O&M plans
would be prepared. In reality, in most sectors the beneficiary contribution was very low and in
most cases non-existent. Estimates of the current arrangements and funding mechanisms for
O&M by infrastructure sector are given in Annex 2, Part B.3, which estimates the annual amount
that is available in GOS for maintenance and indicates what this represents as a percentage the
real requirements for O&M. What is clear is that adequate funds are only really available in three
cases ­ sanitation, health centres and education, whilst funds for irrigation, water supply, and
youth centres are not adequate but do allow the facilities to function without impacting too badly
on the condition of the asset. The worst arrangements are found in the roads, social centres and
Veterinary Centres. For the majority of the infrastructure no funds were available for
preventative maintenance, only for corrective maintenance, which in many cases would only
cover the most urgent and serious of repairs to meet health and safety needs.

Training was the most important activity where the project had some impact on institutional
capacity building, with both line ministries and LAUs. Nevertheless in general, the project was
below expectations in terms of building capacity in the Governorate to design, manage and
implement future rural development projects. TAS has effectively been doing the Governorate's
job, with limited possibilities to pass on their skills. For any future project strengthening GOS's
capability and incentives must be a priority. The issue of lack of incentives to compensate low
salaries is a recurrent problem for PIUs vs. Government staff in Egypt.




                                                 11

Nevertheless, some GOS key capacity building have been achieved by the TAS team: (i)
enhancement of the quality of design of different sub-project works (VUs, social centers, post
offices, etc.) and notably, the improved quality of construction and adoption of modern features
for the first time in Sohag; and (ii) on the job training and transfer of experience concerning field
monitoring, supervision and reporting through supervision in close conjunction with the local
teams for infrastructure works. Training of staff responsible for the different sectors at the
Governorate level allows to assume that staff is now more able to coordinate different sources of
local funding, which has been a long-standing problem. This is probably leading to more
streamlined budget allocation to small investment needs and avoiding duplication; (iii) the
Governorate was more able to coordinate different sources of local funding, which has always
been a long-standing problem, using this particular project. This has lead to more streamlined
budget allocation to small investment needs and avoiding duplication.

Goods and equipment procured for road maintenance and solid waste management under the
project could also potentially have had an impact on building local force account capabilities,
though there is no data available to demonstrate this impact.


Because the project presents a good community-driven model for decentralized service delivery
in Upper Egypt (see section B2), lessons are being synthesized and incorporated into a possible
new investment operation in Upper Egypt--the Upper Egypt Integrated Governorates
Development Project--which is currently under preparation.

                                    3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The overarching objective of the Bank's previous CAS for Egypt was to reduce poverty and
unemployment ­ this is consistent with the CAS objective cited in the PAD of improving rural
incomes and natural resource management. The current CAS (2005) confirms this approach and
its fundamental goals of facilitating private sector development, enhancing the provision of
public services and promoting equity. Considering the continued contribution of rural
development to employment and poverty reduction, the PDOs were and still are highly relevant.

The overall design of the project was relatively sound in its emphasis on integrated participatory
planning and decentralized implementation, facilitating local communities to prioritize their
needs. The participatory approach broadly succeeded (particularly with respect to gender
inclusion - for example by the end of the project around 33 percent of the SHROUK committees'
members who were women went from zero to 33 percent by the end of the project) despite the
parallel problems affecting impact, such as the lack of counterpart funds and the unsolved
difficulties with the credit component. The designation of the Governorate as the main
implementing body was also sound, particularly with a project that inevitably involved many line
ministries.

However, there were a number of elements of the project design that adversely affected
implementation: (i) At MTR, the on-farm Technology Improvement and Rural-Based Investment
activities were removed from the Rural Finance Component due to the continued and intractable



                                                   12

problems with BDAC. The activities which were removed were a significant aspect both of the
original GOE request and in the project concept as the major economic engines of Sohag, thus
limiting the project's capacity to improve incomes; (ii) the institutional strengthening at the
Governorate level was not well defined21 (the assumption being that providing training and
equipment was sufficient); (iii) the design of the credit component led to three implementing
agencies: GOS, BDAC and LDF; and (iv) there was an over reliance on institutional reform of
PBDAC through AMP. During implementation some of these flaws could have been reversed
through a formal restructuring of the project rather than just reallocating funds and reducing the
GOE contribution. Finally, it was a highly complex project with little explanation of the synergy
between components.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objectives were largely achieved as outlined below in spite of the
project design flaws and implementation problems (outlined in section 2.2). See Annex 2,
`Outputs by Component' for details. As noted above, the primary project development objective
was to support the sustainable development of Sohag rural villages through the participatory
approach initiated by the National Program for Integrated Rural Development (Shrouk). The
Project aimed to:
         (i) improve income and quality of life in rural communities;
         (ii) improve equitable access to credit for the rural poor, unemployed youth and women;
         (iii) enhance capacity of local communities and local government at the village level to
         prepare, implement and manage rural infrastructure projects and services.


(i) Improve Income and Quality of Life of Rural Communities. Quality of life has been
clearly improved through the provision of basic public services and structures. In total, 438
infrastructure sub-projects were completed. The sub-projects cover 10 sectors and are located
throughout the entire Governorate, in Sohag's eleven "Markaz" and benefit around 650 villages -
around 2 million persons. As a key associated outcome target the PAD mentions "percentage of
infrastructure and services benefiting isolated hamlets" and proposes a target of 75 percent ­ this
was surpassed reaching 84 percent.

                  Progress of the Village Infrastructure Component (June 15, 2008)
 Sector                 Total no.       CompletedOngoing Physical                 Total Costs     Actual Dis-        % of Total
                        of Sub-         Sub-          Sub-ProjectsProgress        (LE million)    bursement.         Projects Costs
                        Projects        Projects                  Rate %                          (LE million)
 Water                         98*           98              0            100            32.9             31.0                 11
 Sanitation                    11             5              6            45             73.4             59.5                 24
 Irrigation                   69**           69              0            100            15.6             14.8                  5
 Roads (478 km)                124           124             0            100            53.8             50.3                 18
 Vet. Centers                  13            13              0            100             2.9             2.8                   1
 Post Offices                  27            27              0            100             7.2             7.0                   2
 Schools                       56            56              0            100            83.1             80.3                 28


21There was no analysis of capabilities or incentives within the GOS to carry out designed tasks. Its capacity was limited and it
was unclear that the level of TA would be sufficient to raise it to the level necessary to implement project satisfactorily. There
was a missed opportunity of adopting streamlined or integrated Governorate planning process using the SRDP as a main vehicle.
While this was not part of the original design, it is clear now that the enabling environment was there for initiating and
demonstrating such a process, given the size of the SRDP. It could have provided the Governorate with the more institutionalized
process for planning and budgeting that encompasses all of the development activities.


                                                                  13

 Youth Centers                 27           27           2          100             7.8                7.3                  3
 Social Centers                15           15           7          100             6.1                5.3                  2
 Health Centers                 6            4           2           67             18.5              10.6                  7
 Total                        446          438           8             -           301.4             269.2                 100


A beneficiary survey22 indicates that beneficiaries noted qualitative and quantitative
improvements across 9 targeted sectors (For details see Annex 5). For example, improvements
were noted in:
     ·     Water Supply (improved pressure, access, quality etc.)
     ·     Bridge Projects (improved connectivity and reduced travel times etc.),
     ·     Canal Coverings (reduced: odor, spread of mosquitoes etc),
     ·     Road pavement projects (reduction in dust and pollution and road blocks and improved
           connectivity between villages etc.);
     ·     Veterinary Units (improved livestock care and production etc),
     ·     Post Offices (reduced congestion, easier access, improved access of the elderly to obtain
           wages and mail etc.);
     ·     Schools (reduced time in accessing school, reduced absenteeism, increased number of
           spaces etc);
     ·     Youth Centers (improved access to awareness programs and improved participation of
           women in activities and competitions etc).
     ·     Social Centers (improved participation of women and improved employment
           opportunities for girls)

 In terms of income, however, rural credit (see below) failed to induce on-farm technology
improvements and rural-based investments which would in turn have helped diversify rural
activities and would have provided key services for the sustainable intensification of agricultural
production.


(ii) Improve Equitable Access to Credit for the Rural Poor, Unemployed Youth and Women.
Key PDO indicators identified by the PAD were that the "recovery rate of credit provided by
BDAC and LDF" would be 98 percent. This target was achieved but the project failed to provide
medium and long-term resources to improve technologies, increase productivity and support
rural-based investments23. Only about 7,500 loans (averaging US$700 per loan) have been
provided under the individual micro-credit project subcomponent. It also failed to move the
community-based micro-credit through NGOs and Community Development Associations as
development partners. Over the course of the project, the total amount disbursed from IDA and
IFAD Credits for LDF activities were US$2.05 and 1.73 million respectively. In terms of
diversification of loans, 30 (2 percent) of loans have been for non-agricultural purposes; 46% of



22The beneficiary assessment was conducted by the project team and was comprised of a random sample of 1,261 beneficiaries
from 24 sub projects. See Annex 5 for details.


23The major difficulties in the implementation of the credit component was recognized in the PAD i.e. the possibility of a high
risk arising from PBDAC and LDF lack of financial autonomy and this being jeopardized by political interference.


                                                               14

IDA funded loans were for females and 50% of IFAD funded loans. Towards the end of the
project 75% of LDF loans were for youth under the age of 25.


(iii) Enhance Capacity of Local Communities and Local Government at the Village Level to
Prepare, Implement and Manage Rural Infrastructure Projects and Services. The project made
remarkable contributions in terms of improving the access and quality of public infrastructure
services in the rural areas (see above) through enhanced participation structures and mechanisms
at the local level. Although the implementation resources remained in the hands of the local
government rather than the local communities (as outlined in the PAD) communities participated
in decision making on funds utilization and priority setting in an unprecedented way in Sohag
Governorate. Overall, the participatory planning process that was followed conforms
satisfactorily to that outlined in the PAD and women's participation in decision making was
enhanced (see below). For example, the percentage of women participating in the needs
assessment meetings organized by the Local Village Units increased gradually during project
implementation from 0% in 2001 to 22.4% in 2006. In addition to promoting community and
beneficiary involvement with the local units, the project further intensified outreach to the poor
and marginalized by working directly with five Community Development Associations (CDA's)
and trained and built the capacities of 10 CDA's in total. Finally, the monitoring indicators used
to measure capacity enhancement of rural communities and local government were not well
developed.


The interactions between the TAS, local government, local communities and line ministries also
led to enhancements in the quality of design and quality of construction of certain sub-projects
and also led to a transfer of experience concerning field monitoring and supervision and
reporting (See Annex 2 for details).


Through the project training courses were provided to almost 7,700 participants on a wide range
of subjects ranging from basic computing skills, environmental and health awareness to more in-
depth technical training in project design and analysis. The trainings were geared towards local
communities (for example to women interested in rabbit production, dairy and food processing);
as well as local government officials (participatory planning etc.) as well as line ministry
representatives.


However, the sustainability issue continues to be unresolved. This is manifested by the fact that
adequate funds for operation and maintenance are only available in three cases: sanitation, health
centres and education, whilst funds for irrigation, water supply, and youth centres are not
adequate, but do allow the facilities to function without impacting too badly on the condition of
the asset. The worst arrangements are found in the roads, social centres and veterinary centres.
Whilst the later two have some revenues to cover O&M the provision for roads is extremely dire.
The key associated outcome target for this PDO was "the rate of cost recovery of O&M for new
infrastructure" expected to reach to 100 percent of beneficiaries' contribution. In spite of several
reminders made by supervision missions, cost recovery of O&M is far from meeting the target.
Latest estimations indicate that only 43 percent of required O&M is being covered by both
beneficiaries and local funds allocation through the GOE and line ministries. Most of the



                                                15

project's new infrastructures did not comply with the PAD requirement that beneficiaries would
contribute in-cash or in-kind for about 10 percent of investments.


Project Beneficiaries
From the above analysis we note that if we examine how the project beneficiaries were affected
the following conclusions are reached:


Rural Poor: The project aimed to improve access of the rural poor to sustainable basic
economic and social services in the 51 LAUs comprised of 268 affiliated villages and 1,217
hamlets in Sohag. A 1995 survey estimated that about 52 percent of the population of Sohag was
poor and 36 percent "ultra poor". Remoteness of hamlets was used as a proxy for poverty
targeting and the percentage of village infrastructure services that benefited these remote hamlets
was over 81 percent at project completion - higher than the 75 percent target anticipated in the
PAD.


Women: Gender aspects in the project ­ particularly with respect to the inclusion of women
were satisfactory and the project made concerted efforts to increase female participation. By the
end of the project around 33 percent of the SHROUK committees' members were women as
were 27 percent of general board members of the participating NGOs. The percentage of women
from the waiting lists having ID cards was 57 percent and the percentage that had been issued
voting cards is 47 percent. For micro-credit around 53 percent of the loans from LDF were for
females and 33 percent from BDAC. There was also a more modest amount of success in the
training provided by the project with females representing around 27 percent of training
beneficiaries.


Youth: The PAD noted that unemployment rates among youth aged between 15 and 24 years
stood at 20 percent in rural areas and about 40 percent for university and high school graduates
and an objective of the project was to target youth through the Rural Finance component by
promoting access to credit for income generating activities (such as on-farm production, food
processing, packing and drying of fruits and vegetables, apiculture, livestock fattening, dairy,
off-farm activities, transport services for girls attending schools, crafts, etc.). In the event and
despite frequent recommendations by the Bank team during project supervision missions, few
concerted efforts were made to target youth in the project and the inadequate monitoring and
evaluation of the credit component did not permit for a systematic analysis of the percentage of
young people benefiting from loans under both BDAC and LDF. LDF did however make some
efforts toward the end of the project implementation period and for example between November
2007 and April 2008, 75 percent of loans were for youth under the age of 25.



3.3 Efficiency

The PAD did not include an economic and financial analysis for the overall project planned costs
(US$93.8 million), but performed financial analysis of typical investments to be supported by the
credit component. For the selection of infrastructure investments the PAD indicates that cost-
effectiveness criteria would be used for screening proposals and a rate of return calculation


                                                 16

would be required for a small number of sub-projects for economic infrastructure with both
quantifiable benefits and costs exceeding US$250,000. During implementation total costs turned
out to be US$68.1 million (73 percent of the budget) due to the large decrease in the Rural
Finance component and the share of the three components in the total costs had changed
significantly from the original plan. The rural finance component was significantly reduced, and
its share dropped from 28.5 percent to only 7.4 percent. The unused IDA/IFAD funds were re-
allocated for the strengthening of local institutions component (goods for O&M of works)
increasing by 50 percent its budget, and for the infrastructure development which increased its
share on total costs from 64.6 to 81.5 percent (to US$55 million).

For the ICR efficiency analysis data from the project impact final survey as well as from several
field visits were used for the modeling of typical investments under the infrastructure component
(details in Annex 3). Models represent seven of the ten supported sectors where about 86 percent
of the component's funds were invested. In addition, an eighth model represents the livestock
activities financed under the micro-credit component. About 85 percent of the micro-credit loans
went to finance livestock. Expanding the results of those eight models, the overall ERR including
all costs incurred for institutional strengthening and project administration was estimated at 13.5
percent and the NPV at US$3.2 million.

The PAD did not identify specific cost effectiveness values (cost per unit or cost per
beneficiary), but suggested that these values should be kept within sub-sector norms and be
determined on the basis of the first year investment program and from the experience of similar
projects (in particular those adopted by SFD). In the process these indicators were not explicitly
used, although they may have played a part in project analysis in ranking alternative options. On
the basis of the completed subprojects the average cost values per beneficiary were considered
by the supervision missions to be reasonably low and acceptable.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In spite of all the problems encountered during preparation and implementation, the project
achieved important results, notably the village infrastructure component implemented using
participatory approaches improved living standards of the rural poor. With the changes
introduced during MTR the project resulted in the transformation of what was meant to be a rural
development project into a rural infrastructure project with a small pilot micro-credit component.
Hence, the rural finance outcome is considered as moderately unsatisfactory as it failed to create
the level of employment and the enabling conditions to improve the expected income generation
opportunities for the rural poor. On balance, using an objective-based methodology whereby
project outcome per component is weighted according to the original objectives - using
components' sharing in total originally planned costs as a proxy (as shown in the following
Table) - the ICR team concluded that the overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

                             Project Outcome Rating by Component
                                             June 2008




                                                 17

                                                   Project cost            Project         Weighted        Contribution
              Components                           US$ million           Outcome #         as % cost      to PDO value
                                                 PAD       Final      Rating      Value     in PAD

1. Local Institutional Strengthening:                6.4      7.0       MS          4           6.9%                  0.27
2.Village Infrastructure:                           60.6     55.4        S *       5.1         64.9%                  3.29
    ·   Schools                                             15.3         HS         6           17.9%                 1.07
    ·   Sanitation                                          13.5        MS          4           15.8%                 0.63
    ·   Roads                                                 9.9         S         5           11.6%                 0.58
    ·   Water Supply                                          6.1        HS         6            7.1%                 0.42
    ·   Youth and Social Centers                              2.6         S         5            3.0%                 0.15
    ·   Veterinary Clinics                                    0.5        HS         6            0.6%                 0.04
    ·   Health Centers                                        3.4       MS          4            4.0%                 0.16
    ·   Irrigation                                            2.9         S         5            3.4%                 0.17
    ·   Post Offices                                          1.3         S         5            1.5%                 0.08
3. Rural Finance:                                 26.7        5.7     MU **       1.34         28.5%                  0.38
    ·   On farm technology                         20.7         0       HU          1           22.1%                 0.22
    ·   Individual micro-credit                    2.95       5.7       MS          4            3.2%                 0.13
    ·   Community based micro-credit               2.95         0       HU          1            3.2%                 0.03
TOTAL PROJECT                                       93.6    68.1        MS        3.95          100%                  3.95
   # Highly satisfactory (HS) = 6; Satisfactory (S) = 5; Marginally satisfactory (MS) = 4; Marginally unsatisfactory (MU) = 3;
                                   Unsatisfactory (U) = 2; and Highly unsatisfactory (HU) = 1.
                * Village infrastructure Component results with Satisfactory (5.1 weighted average = 3.29/0.649)
                                   ** Rural finance Component results with 1.34 (0.38/0.285)

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No specific means of verification of changes in the poverty situation were incorporated in the
original M&E system outlined in the PAD. However, the TAS surveys did consider whether
there was any perceived improvements by beneficiaries from the provision of public services
infrastructure: 67% of respondents reported economic benefits, 71% social benefits, 66%
environmental benefits and 61% health benefits (details in Annex 5). Assuming remoteness of
hamlets is also a proxy for poverty targeting then the percentage of village infrastructure services
that benefited these hamlets at over 81% was higher than the level expected in the PAD of 75%.

Gender aspects have also been satisfactory and the project has made concerted efforts to increase
female participation. The project's gender impact was initially unrated, but later classified as
satisfactory in the ISRs. Overall, the participatory planning process that was followed conforms
satisfactorily to that outlined in the PAD. By the end of the project around 33% of SHROUK
committees' members were women as were 27% of general board members of the participating
NGOs. The percentage of women from the waiting lists having ID cards is now 57% and
percentage that has been issued voting cards is now 47%. For micro-credit around 53% of the
loans from LDF were for females and 33% from BDAC. There was also a relative success with
training: females representing around 27% overall. Participatory planning and environmental
aspects of the project have been well handled. Further information on gender aspects is given in
Part B of Annex 2.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                                               18

As noted above, institutional strengthening is unlikely to be sustainable. GOS failed to provide
committed counterparts for the TAS and thus missed an opportunity. Adequate training was
provided to GOS, line ministries and LAUs however the lack of O&M arrangements affected the
sustainability of new infrastructure. GOS, nevertheless was able to lobby more effectively for
development budget from central Government over the past two years since the project and its
extensive coverage of services, sectors and districts has provided them with a good
understanding of the overall needs in rural villages and a practice for coordinating different
sources of funds and for presenting their needs in terms of outcomes and not inputs.
The amount of sectoral budget channeled through the project (line ministries) during the
implementation period reached an average of 15.6 percent if sanitation, education, roads, water,
and irrigation sectors are considered as an aggregate. During FY 2004 ­ 2005 their participation
was 26.3 percent declining later until 11.9 percent in FY 2007 ­ 2008. (details in Annex 2, Part
A.2).


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


A number of issues arose from the stakeholder workshop held during the ICR mission (see
Annex 6), from which some key points can be drawn that would be valuable for design and
implementation of similar rural development projects with institution building and rural civil
works components:
    ·   Village Infrastructure: Project interventions need to be shaped as an integrated package
        of infrastructure, credit and training. There was a consensus that basic infrastructure is
        needed to provide public services as well as new job opportunities.
    ·   Implementers needed to resist political interference.
    ·   Women's income generating opportunities needed to be nurtured.
    ·   Institutional Strengthening: Village committees need to increase their membership and
        LAUs be allocated budgets to organize community meetings.
    ·   Training of trainers is needed to increase sustainability.
    ·   An M&E Unit should be created at the onset with clear indicators to monitor throughout
        the project life and with adequate training in participatory monitoring.
    ·   PIU counterparts should be appointed at the onset and given adequate incentives.
    ·   Credit: Loan amounts need to be increased and FIs interest rates should be identical.
    ·   The positive impact on women and poor of using non-land assets as collateral for loans
        for BDAC needs to be nurtured.
    ·   Community credit channeled through Banks and NGOs should be increased and loan
        requests processed in Sohag, rather than Cairo.
    ·   Operational Issues: Training of personnel is needed on differences between the Bank's
        standard bidding procedures and Egyptian Law.



                                                 19

     ·    Problems needing solutions include price escalation, too many organizations reviewing
          invoices, lack of leeway with variations orders and long delays in paying counterparts
          funds.
     ·    O&M might be solved by allocating loan funds to maintenance, providing spare parts and
          including specific covenants in the Credit Agreement.


     Other lessons learned regarding flow of funds were identified as follows:


     ·    To ensure proper monitoring of the project funding, the reconciliation of the project
          disbursements should factor in the SDR exchange rates applicable at the time of
          withdrawals. This becomes more crucial towards the end of the project especially to
          avoid over-commitment and potential funding shortage.

     ·    To avoid delays in project execution, implementation readiness supported by finalized
          agreements that are endorsed by all involved parties on the flow of funds process should
          be secured ahead of effectiveness.

     ·    The reliance on the existing staffing capacities at the FM level can work effectively
          provided a clearly defined system is established and the implementing entity shows
          enough commitment.

     ·    The flow of funds arrangements should support efficient project implementation while
          maintaining proper controls over expenditures. The lengthy flow of funds process
          through multiple layers does not necessarily ensure better control. Alternative control
          arrangements such as spot checks and field visits can be more efficient in tracking the use
          of funds while not affecting the smoothness in the flow of funds and the timely
          availability of financing.


                                4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: The risks to the development outcomes are significant.

The ICR team considered that GOS is still not capable of acting as an efficient manager of rural
development in Sohag because of the very low salaries which impede retaining trained and
capable staff, and because the SRDP failed to mobilize access to credit for agricultural
development24. As recognized by the Governorate General Secretary during the ICR mission,
there was little transfer of expertise on what the project actually did from the TAS team to the
Governorate staff due to lack of incentives and motivation to assume new responsibilities. The
same applies to BDAC and LDF staffs which need to strengthen their own capacity and role as
active micro-credit agencies. In spite of these problems, the project applied SHROUK approach
was enhanced and has the potential to continue to implement participatory, demand-driven local
development as GOE seems to be committed to it. In this respect SRDP has made very important
contributions and should by no means be underestimated. It proved to be an enhancing and


24GOS was not given jurisdiction over the Credit component and does not have a say in the rural credit business. This was a
clear flaw in the design of the project. Current Egyptian laws do not support Governorate involvement in credit and even a Credit
Covenant could not have solved this issue. It was the Bank appraisal team who failed in detecting the issues.


                                                                20

synergetic institutional mechanism that includes the voices of LAUs, NGOs, women's groups,
and natural leaders in a joint decision-making development process.


Some of the infrastructure financed by the project also show significant sustainability risks. It is
mainly the case of roads and social centers which have no adequate resources either from the
Government or from their own generated resources to cover their O&M costs. For other sectors
as covered irrigation canals, water supply, VUs and youth centers, the risks are moderate as they
have sufficient resources to make their infrastructure function without impacting too badly on the
condition of the assets. The other four infrastructure sectors show moderate to low risks since
they generate enough resources to cover most of their O&M costs.

                      5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


During the long identification/preparation process the Bank had developed a good understanding
and knowledge of the main constraints to development in Sohag and comprehensive ways to deal
with the solutions. This project was a pioneer in validating and institutionalizing the
decentralized Shrouk concept into the administrative structure of the country. The supported
demand-driven village infrastructure enhanced appropriateness for the region and the priorities
of the local population. Credit access was also correctly identified as an absolute need for
developing jobs and income generation activities for the poor.

However, during the preparation process many critical aspects and interventions were not
sufficiently considered. The PDOs are still considered as highly relevant (section 3.1), but the
PAD proposed a weak strategy where objectives, budget and activities were not adequately
linked. Required synergies among components remained unexplained. The focus of the PAD was
on rescuing PBDAC from insolvency rather than improving access to credit for the rural sector.
More attention should have been given to previous project lessons learned, such as not holding to
commitments on interest rates, institutional improvements, financial health of FIs; or having
more than one implementing unit with different agendas. PBDAC and its Sohag BDAC was an
inappropriate choice of FI with which to work at that point in time. Conditionality related to
institutional reform of PBDAC was vague and non-enforceable, and there was no evidence that
adequate evaluation capacity existed or was applied at the Governorate or Line Ministries levels
for assessing economic and/or technical feasibility of infrastructure subproject proposals.


A Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out (November 1999) by the Bank. Although the
QAG found the project's concept of local and small scale development appropriate the
assessment panel raised a number of particular issues that needed to be addressed in the first
years of the project implementation to improve its prospects for success. The overall assessment
was that the project was marginally unsatisfactory, with just the environmental and social-
stakeholder aspects being classified as satisfactory. Factors assessed as marginal were: the


                                                21

project concept, objectives and approach; technical and economic aspects; financial management
aspects; institutional capacity analysis; readiness for implementation; and risk assessment and
sustainability. Specifically:
    ·    On balance, the panel considered the village infrastructure component to be well
         conceived, but was concerned that the TA provided by the project might be too little too
         late ­ a prognosis broadly confirmed during implementation.
    ·    There were serious concerns about the use of BDAC as a channel for the credit line,
         given the continuous violation by PBDAC (the parent company) of loan covenants under
         the on-going Bank co-financed Agricultural Modernization Project (AMP).
    ·    The panel supported the suggestion of the PAD review that a time-bound rehabilitation
         plan, with defined targets that needed to be achieved before disbursement could begin,
         should be agreed for Sohag BDAC.
    ·    A program of up-front fees and advance interest rate payments needed to be implemented
         to partially offset the below-market interest rates imposed by GOE.

The panel's suggestions for District and Governorate staff for reviewing the village proposals
was undertaken and seem to have been effective. However, the suggestion that the fiscal cost of
O&M for village infrastructure for the first three years (prior to beneficiaries taking over) be
included in the Government budget was not acted on. Their view that the risks and below-full-
cost recovery for O&M had not been adequately considered in the design has been substantiated.

The TA for the project was not addressed in detail in the PAD. It should have been obvious that
the Governorate was not able to ensure adequate support and follow-up for the infrastructure
component even with the help of the Line Ministries, and that the provision of a substantial TA
program and budget should have been envisaged.

O&M was also not adequately tackled: O&M funded by local communities was an un-realistic
approach from the onset. Local maintenance committees even if created and provided with
appropriate training would not be able to deal with the O&M of infrastructure such as roads,
schools, etc. and to support the road or sanitation sub-project O&M. The serious lack of funds in
some sectors was not really investigated and remedies or solutions proposed. In the road sector,
for example, the Governorate could have allocated the funds through the fuel and quarries taxes
(as per the law) and a covenant in the Credit Agreement to this effect could have improved the
situation25.The PAD wrongly assumed that O&M could be fully paid for by the beneficiaries,
without a realistic assessment of the realities in each sector.

(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


Frequency of Supervision Missions: The project was appropriately supervised and a total of
(23) supervision missions were conducted over the life of the project. There were at least two
supervision missions per year and in some years, 2002, 2003, 2005 there were three missions,


25For the roads sub-projects, the introduction of a covenant might have forced the GOS to allocate the quarries and fuel taxes to
roads maintenance as stipulated by the law instead of diverting taxes to building new roads.


                                                               22

reflecting the presence of a country based TTL. The task teams varied in size from one team
member (the TTL alone on two occasions ­ again the country based TTL) to teams of 6 or 7
Bank staff with a complementary set of skills.

Task Team Leaders: The project involved five TTLs over a period of 13 years from the start of
preparation in 1995        26. The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) noted that there had
been three task team leaders over a four year period at the time of their review. With the
exception of the only country-based TTL who oversaw the MTR, the remaining four TTLs
supervised the project for two years or less and were based in Washington. For the majority of
cases, new TTLs were part of the project team for a period of time before assuming the
leadership, which helped greatly with the transition.

Team Skill Mix: An appropriate core set of skills have been apparent in Bank project teams over
the life of the project (including specialists in: engineering, infrastructure, procurement, financial
management, operations, agriculture, environment, social science/sociology). Nevertheless, and
given the difficulties involved with the Rural Finance Component, a Rural Finance expert ought
to have been more consistently part of the mission teams instead of being involved on an ad hoc
basis. This was noted in the QEA (which noted that a dedicated financial sector specialist would
have been a useful addition to the team during preparation with less time from a senior
agriculturalist) and in the QSA which noted that the involvement of a Bank's financial sector
specialists would be useful to strengthen the design, review choices and ultimately enhance the
sustainability of the Rural Finance Component

Candor in project rating and reporting: There was also a lack of candor in project status
ratings, particularly in the early years of the project (all DOs except the final one and all IP
ratings (bar two) were deemed satisfactory despite the slow progress in project implementation
in the early days of project implementation). The MTR also considered the project satisfactory
despite the fact that only 17.5 percent of the IDA credit and 7.4 percent of the IFAD loan had
been disbursed and no progress had been made in the credit component. In addition the PDOs
remained unchanged even though the rural credit component was scaled down at MTR.

Monitoring and Evaluation: The insufficient attention which was paid to M&E aspects of the
project resulted in a lost opportunity to highlight problems and recommend timely reaction to
improve performance. More importantly, the lack of relevant indicators made it difficult to
demonstrate whether the project was on its way to achieving its objectives during each
supervision mission. (See Section 2.3 and Annex 2, Part B.)

Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA): QSA6 - July 2004 - rated the quality of supervision
of the project as being, "Moderately Satisfactory" based upon: (i) the overly optimistic Project
Status Report (particularly on the credit component) ratings which included inadequate attention
to risk ratings and insufficient management input into supervision efforts; (ii) the project's
development objectives remained unchanged despite the scaling down of the rural credit
component and the fact that the key performance indicators, project goals and expected outcomes
were not changed to reflect the restructuring of the project; and (iii) the reallocation of credit


26Mr. Barres beginning to 2000, Mr. Sinha 2000 to 2002, Ms. Soliman 2002 to 2006, Mr. Souhlal 2006-2007 and Ms. Oppong
2007 to close of project.


                                                            23

proceeds to the rural infrastructure component was not accompanied by adequate attention to the
institutional capacity to execute the additional work.

Mid Term Review: The Bank was flexible and proactive in making substantial budget revisions
and re-allocating funds from the credit component to the other 2 components at MTR after the
failure and closure of AMP. Given the non-compliance of GOE commitment and assurance made
at appraisal that required counterpart funds would be assigned to the project, the Bank reduced
substantially GOE required funding from 50 to 15 percent. However, the Bank should have
responded earlier regarding committed funds and by looking for more imaginative alternative
ways for improving the rural finance bottleneck as it was crucial for the agricultural development
process required for alleviating poverty in Sohag.

Award for Project Supervision: The QSA panel, however, acknowledged that the quality of
supervision during the second half of the review period (2002 to 2004) was superior to that of the
first (2000 to 2002) and confirmed that the team in place at mid-term had made significant
efforts to address the project's serious issues. In the four years to project closing and since the
QSA assessment, project supervision maintained the same quality as acknowledged in the second
part of the review. Consequently, in November 2006 and in acknowledgement of the supervision
efforts made, the Sohag Rural Development Project received the World Bank's Golden Plough
Award for Excellence in project supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The "moderately satisfactory" rating for overall Bank performance reflects both the "moderately
unsatisfactory" rating for Bank quality at entry (for details see above) and the "moderately
satisfactory" supervision rating (ibid) and is an average of the two. The shortcomings in project
supervision (which were mainly issues apparent during the first half of the supervision period
and were mostly addressed during the second half of the project) and which justified the
moderately satisfactory supervision rating were offset by the significant shortcomings in project
quality at entry thus justifying an overall moderately satisfactory rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance - National Level Agencies

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Central Government: The primary role of central government was to ensure enabling
conditions for implementation including the provision of committed counterpart funds and
enforcing FIs to comply with the minimal requirements for sustainable operation. It is to be
noted that the Government contributed significantly to the 22 month delay in effectiveness as
noted above. The commitment of the Ministry of Planning to allocate the equivalent of US$23.6
million in six years as GOE contribution to project costs was ignored. It provided less than US$9
million in the extended eight years. After MTR amendments reducing the counterpart funds from


                                                 24

50 to 15 percent, payments by line ministries continued to be late. This in turn delayed the
payment of the funds provided by IDA/IFAD and led to cash flow problems for the contractors.

PBDAC: Under the rural finance sub-component PBDAC performance in general was very poor
and involved frequent FM issues. For example, fund flows did not run smoothly, reporting was
delayed and audit reports were submitted late. Communications between PBDAC in Cairo and
BDAC was also poor and there was a general lack of ownership, commitment and motivation27.
In addition, constraints in achieving sound financial and managerial systems for the Sohag
BDAC determined that no progress could be made in elaborating the required rehabilitation plan
as per the PBDAC project agreement. It was as a result of this poor performance and resulting
poor disbursement that it was decided that the scope of the rural finance component be
considerably scaled down at MTR. Furthermore, attempts at on-lending through Community
Based Organizations proved unsuccessful and PBDAC decided to abandon this approach in
2007.

Line Ministries: Engineering designs prepared by line ministries were used by the Project (e.g.,
schools, health centers, VUs, youth and social centers, post offices, water supply, roads and
irrigation). The only sector where special engineering designs were undertaken was sanitation
but all these schemes financed by the project are still non-operational as land for the usage of
treated water is still not available. Supervision of construction was provided by line ministry
personnel for projects less than $250,000. In general, their involvement was positive, but lack of
financial incentives to the staff involved led to delays in providing designs and in adequate
supervising the works.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance ­ Governorate Level Agencies

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Governorate of Sohag: The Secretary General of the Governorate was appointed as the
Project's Manager, which was a sound idea. A Civil Engineer was employed to support the
Governorate in managing the Project and the GOS created a Technical Assistance Secretariat
(TAS) as suggested in the PAD, which managed to coordinate the infrastructure component
adequately. However, GOS failed to provide committed counterparts for TAS, thus jeopardizing
the sustainability of project management system. Once TAS contract ends, there will be no one
who could follow up any remaining day-to-day work or implement a new project ­ this was
explicitly noted by the Secretary General. TAS provided a wide range of disciplines
(engineering, planning, socio-economics, M&E and financial management) which were
supplemented by a large number of specialists in Cairo. In spite of its shortcomings the
decentralized rural infrastructure development approach has proven to be effective. On balance
GOS performance is satisfactory.




27BDAC is wholly owned by PBDAC and, though it is an autonomous entity, it has little autonomy in terms of activity and
management. It operates as a branch and is dependent on PBDAC for its operational objectives, lending targets, interest rates,
refinancing, budget allocation, loan approvals beyond credit ceiling, etc.




                                                               25

BDAC did not manage to disburse even the "reduced" funds after the MTR reallocation due to
capacity weaknesses. It was not possible even to implement a sustainable micro-credit window
and NGOs involvement was systematically resisted. BDAC appear to have suffered from poor
communications with PBDAC in Cairo, lack of ownership and commitment, and little staff
motivation. On the positive side, by the project end BDAC had managed to slightly diversify
loans and promote better involvement of women. BDAC performance was unsatisfactory.

LDF disbursed its fund allocation within the last 2 years of the project life, but prior to this
during the first 5 years no commitment was shown nor disbursements made. Too many changes
in the LDF management and political interference were the main cause of the failures and delays.
LDF performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The national-level agencies did not play their role as well as they could have in overseeing and
coordinating the various components of the project. For example, delays in the credit component
might have been significantly reduced had the Ministries of International Cooperation and Local
Development directly intervened and the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Rural Development
recommended by the PAD was never established. At the Governorate level the implementing
agencies performed better but there were nevertheless some shortcomings (see details above).
Therefore, the "moderately satisfactory" rating for overall Borrower performance reflects both
the Moderately Unsatisfactory Government Performance (for details see above) and the
Moderately Satisfactory Implementing Agency Performance rating (ibid.) and is an average of
the two. In sum, the moderately unsatisfactory performance of the national level entities was
partly offset by the moderately satisfactory performances of Governorate level Implementing
Agencies.

                                         6. Lessons Learned


The lessons learned from the design and implementation of this operation can be categorized into
two groups ­ one which are specific to a CCD project and another which are generic and applies
to any projects.


Project Specific Lessons Learned

·       The decentralized model used by the project proved to be highly suitable and replicable,
and it was a pioneering project in many aspects in a difficult and socially conservative setting. In
future projects it would be important to work out at the outset the project details of how to ensure
its sustainability (i.e. appointment of counterparts, provision of incentives, etc.).
·       Participatory planning process and gender. The project's experience with a highly
participatory process was encouraging and in future projects could adopt a more streamlined or
integrated Governorate planning process using the project as a vehicle whereby economic or cost
effectiveness analysis are built into the process. It would provide the Governorate with a more
institutionalized process for planning and budgeting all of the development activities. The model


                                                 26

was particularly effective at ensuring that women were included in decision making and priority
setting at the local level.
·       In addition, and as a result of the SRDP implementation, Sohag Governorate has been
able to lobby more effectively for development budget from central Government over the past
two years since the project and its extensive services sectors and districts has provided theme
with a good understanding of their overall needs.
·       Rural development is a highly complex process and should not be linked to the
development of institutional reforms and capacity building components of bureaucratic and
political FIs. When rural finance mechanisms are required to improve access to credit for
modernizing agriculture for the poorest, realistic approaches should be developed based on the
use of private FIs and/or existing successful micro-finance experiences in a country.
·       Project interventions need to be designed as an integrated package of infrastructure,
credit and training. There was a consensus that basic infrastructure is needed to provide public
services as well as new job opportunities.
·       Community-based micro credit channeled through Banks and NGOs should be increased
and loan requests processed in Sohag, rather than Cairo.


Generic Lessons Learned

·   Implementation arrangements. The Bank's experience in many other projects demonstrated
    that there should be one body with prime responsibility for implementation in order to keep
    lines of responsibility clear and facilitate coordination of components.

·   The flow of funds arrangements should support efficient project implementation while
    maintaining proper controls over expenditures. The lengthy flow of funds process through
    multiple layers does not necessarily ensure better control. Alternative control arrangements
    such as spot checks and field visits can be more efficient in tracking the use of funds while
    not affecting the smoothness in the flow of funds and the timely availability of financing.

·   During project preparation, regular meetings with sector officials to discuss procurement
processes and standardization of procurement documentation should commence and these should
be reflected in the Project Operations Manual.
·       Project execution, supervision, including the M&E process, should closely follow and
build upon the PAD and supporting documents ­ The project implementation staff appeared to
have limited knowledge of the PAD indicators.
·       Monitoring and Evaluation.         Most of the targets in the M&E framework were
overambitious and unspecified which made it difficult to report on whether the project would be
able to achieve its PDOs. Moreover, insufficient attention was paid to the M&E aspects of this
project by both the Bank and implementing agencies, which resulted in the lost opportunity to
highlight problems and recommend timely actions to improve performance.
·       Project restructuring. When a major restructuring of a project needs to be formally
undertaken then it should be properly justified and amended, including if necessary its PDO and
performance indicators (PI). Otherwise the ICR needs to only refer to the original design, PDOs
and PKI and results would not match with the project's original targets.




                                                   27

·       Civil works implementation. A separate financial unit should be created within the
Governorate to be entrusted with all financial transactions and payments related to contracts
under the Project. Delays in payment to contractors could be solved by depositing all counterpart
funds with the Governorate, which in turn would pay the contractors and suppliers.
·       Financial management. To avoid delays in project execution, implementation readiness
supported by finalized agreements that are endorsed by all involved parties on the flow of funds
process should be secured ahead of effectiveness.
·       Commitment. Without clear fulfillment of commitments and support to all project
components by the authorities and implementing agencies disbursements should be suspended.
Lack of commitment should be clearly and timely reported by the task teams and supervision
efforts should rebuild the project log frame and effective commitment.
·       Government and Beneficiary incentives to contribute to project. In general there is a lack
of Government incentive to focus on the quality of existing assets vis-à-vis the construction of
new investments. Beneficiary contributions need to be set realistically as well as with precise
arrangements for up-front contributions and cost-recovery of O&M. A solution could be a
covenant in the Credit Agreement defining for each sector the fund source (e.g. using fuel taxes
for road maintenance). Experience show that obtaining contributions for public goods is very
difficult and likely to be low, typically 5 ­ 10 percent for investments. For economic
infrastructure much higher contributions can be expected. A covenant could require defining all
O&M modalities which should be implemented prior to any disbursement.
·       For any future project strengthening, the Governorates' capability and incentives must
be a priority. The issue of lack of incentives to compensate low salaries is a recurrent problem
for PIU's vs. Government staff in Egypt.

        7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
    ·   Awaiting Borrower Input

(b) Co financiers



(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                28

                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing




(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                   Components
                                                          Estimate           Estimate         Appraisal
1. STRENGTHENING LOCAL
                                                                  5.5               7.2          131
       INSTITUTIONS
2. VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                 47.5              57.8          122
       DEVELOPMENT
3. RURAL FINANCE                                                 23.0               5.7           25
    On-Farm Technology Improvement                               17.9               -             -
    Micro-credit for Income Generation                            5.1               5.7          117
       - Community-Based Lending                                  2.5               -             -
       - Individual Micro-credit                                  2.6               5.7          219

                               Total Baseline Cost               76.0
                             Physical Contingencies               4.8
                                  Price Contingencies            12.9
                                Total Project Costs              93.8              70.7           75
           Total Financing Required (IDA/IFAD)                   50.0              59.6          119




(b) Financing



                                                               Appraisal
                                                                             Actual/Latest
                                               Type of Co-     Estimate                      Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                                  Estimate
                                                financing        (USD                          Appraisal
                                                                            (USD millions)
                                                               millions)
Borrower (GOE, BDAC, LDF, and
                                                                  43.8           11.1             25
Beneficiaries)
International Development Association
                                                                  25.0           29.6            118
(IDA)
International Fund for Agriculture
                                                                  25.0           30.0            120
Development (IFAD)

 Note: Disbursed amounts are still preliminary estimations since IDA is closing 04/30/08 and IFAD 06/30/08




                                                   29

                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Part A: Summary of Component Output

A.1: Local Institutions Strengthening Component

The overall disbursement of the IDA/IFAD loans for the institutional strengthening component is
shown in Annex 2, Table 2.1. Consulting services, which included the activities of TAS and the
honorarium of training staff accounted for around 38% of the total disbursed. Consulting services
excluding auditing and training, totaled US$ 2 million and this represents around 4 % of the total
value of the project's civil works component. This amount covers project management, M&E,
financial control, in addition to civil works design and supervision (excluding that provided by
line ministries for smaller-scale subprojects). Overall, this represents very good value and is
significantly lower than comparable projects.

            Annex Table 2.1: Total Institutional Strengthening Project Costs (US$)

                                                      Disbursement Committed   Expected total at
                                                         (US$)     Funds (US$) end of project

 Construction supervision (sanitation & health SP)        342,013                       342,013

 Training                                                 474,090                       474,090
 External auditors (5 persons x 30 days per year)           73,574                       73,574
 TAS team (13 specialists, plus 5 part consultants)      1,200,229      114285         1314514
 Individual Consultancy (testing materials & studies)     524,982                       524,982
 Total Consultancy Services                              2,614,888     114,285        2,729,173

 Goods                                                   4,458,436                    4,458,436


 TOTAL                                                   7,073,324     114,285        7,187,609



Although the PAD did not explicitly allow in the budget for providing institutional support to the
Governorate, by setting the TAS in the office of the Secretary General of the Governorate it does
clearly assume that there will be a high level of interaction between them. The intensification of
the coordination between Governorate personnel, line ministries personnel and TAS team
members (particularly with regard to contracting, planning, participatory methods, and
monitoring and evaluation) has been a major issue addressed by Bank Supervisory Missions.
However, this failed to take place as envisaged and no specific collaborative arrangements
between GOS and TAS in the various areas of work of the project have been made to transfer
knowledge and expertise, despite repeated recommendations of the various missions. This raises
important questions in terms of the ultimate impact of the project on the institutional
strengthening of the Governorate, and its capacity, and lack of incentives and expertise among
governorate staff to take on additional tasks or to take responsibility for any future rural
development projects.

However, some improvements have definitely been made on the following areas: (i) enhancing
the quality of design of different sub-project schemes (including VUs, social centers, post
offices, etc.) improving the quality of construction and adoption of modern features for the first


                                                      30

time in Sohag; (ii) the TAS team undertook supervision in close conjunction with the
Governorate teams for water, housing, education, etc., and this has provided on the job training
and transfer of experience concerning field monitoring and supervision and supervision
reporting, (iii) a training program specifically designed to address Governorate capacity for
development projects implementation; and (iv) the Governorate was more able to coordinate
different sources of local funding, which has always been a long-standing problem. This has lead
to more streamlined budget allocation to small investment needs and avoiding duplications. As a
result of the SRDP implementation, the GOS has been able to lobby more effectively for
development budget from central Government over the past two years since the project and its
service of sectors and districts has provided them with a good understanding of their overall
needs, how much has been addressed, a good way of coordinating different sources of funds and
of presenting their needs in terms of outcomes and not inputs.

Coordination between the Governorate, TAS, PBDAC and LDF has formally been weak, but in
the later stages of the project the Bank has been able to persuade the Governorate to set in place
a coordination system based on monthly meetings, with a view to ensuring project sustainability
and Governorate ownership. Unfortunately the practice was discontinued after the first two
monthly meetings, without a session having been dedicated to discussing the lessons learned
from the project as recommended. However, bilateral meetings between TAS and BDAC/LDF
were held, mainly to sort out issues related to the compilation of M&E data.

Training courses were provided for almost 7,700 participants in a wide range of subjects
ranging from basic computing skills, environmental and health awareness to more in depth
technical training in project design and analysis (see Annex Table 2.2.) Courses were provided
by Cairo, Mansoura and Assiut Universities, the Institute of Urban Studies, the National
Research Center, the Agriculture Consultation Extension Services, Development Services Center
and the Children with Special Needs Association.

          Annex Table 2.2: Training Activities under the Project (Updated June 2008)
 Theme of training                                   No of   No Days/  Total no Partici- % of
                                                     courses course    of days  pants    females
 Basic Computer software training                       1        6         6      25       12
 Participatory planning                                20        4        80     283       3.3
 Project Cycle and financial monitoring                22        3        66     178       14.0
 Village Profiles and participatory planning            9        3        27     196       - l
 Strategic planning                                     7        3        21     146       0.7
 Sector planning                                        7        3        21     123        0
 Technical training (computing, procurement,           214   4 average    856    3210      12
 accounts, preparation of documentation etc.)
 Road design and maintenance                           14    4 average    20      80       6.3
 Training needs assessment                              1        3         3      20       40
 Facilitation skills                                    1        3         3      20       40
 Rapid participatory appraisal                          1        4         4      20       40
 Health, legal and environmental awareness raining     30        1        30     1,200     70
 seminars
 Training of credit officers                           34       1-5       50     1,350     14.4
 Seminar on women's role in loans                      11        1        11     550       100
 Vocational training in rabbit production, dairy and   10        4        40     300       100
 food processing
 7RWDO                                                 382              1,238    7,701     30.3




                                                      31

Goods purchased under the project, listed in Annex Table 2.3, totaled LE 24.25 million (US$
4.46 million at April 2008 exchange rate). The goods were used to support the strengthening
component at Governorate, line ministry and LAU levels, and covered three broad areas:

   ·    Heavy plant for road maintenance (graders, vibrators, backhoes and loaders) and solid
        waste management (garbage collection and sewage trucks) (total US$ 2.82 million)
   ·    Transport, including single and double cabin vehicles and microbuses) (Total US$ 0.88
        million)
   ·    Office equipment, including computers, printers, photocopiers, scanners, UPS stabilizers
        etc. (Total US$ 0.75 million)

        Annex Table 2.3: Summary of Procurement of Goods, June 2008


        Item                      Quantity       Cost (LE)       Cost (US$)  % of total

        Heavy plant:
        Grader                        3          2,983,297         548,400
        Vibratory compactor           1           670,000          123,162
        Loader - large                1           775,000          142,463
        Loader - medium               3          1,845,000         339,154
        Backhoe                      10          3,450,000         634,191
        Garbage collection cart      18          3,040,200         558,860
        Sewage collection cart       17          2,582,310         474,689
                      Sub-total                 15,345,807        2,820,920  63.3%
        Vehicles
        Microbus                      2           460,000          84,559
        Single cabin vehicle         42          3,396,800         624,412
        Double cabin vehicle          2           166,800          30,662
        Site car                      3           787,000          144,669
                      Sub-total                  4,810,600         884,301   19.8%
        Office equipment:
        Photocopier                  100         1,528,180         280,915
        Computer                     134         1,079,889         198,509
        Printer                      89           244,880          45,015
        UPS stabilizer               63           48,665            8,946
        Scanner                       5            5,112            940
        Fax                           6           17,950            3,300
        Shredder                      1             795             146
        Data                          5           35,700            6,562
        Video camera                  2            5,800            1,066
        Plasma screen                 2           86,000           15,809
        Sports equipment              3          1,044,512         192,006
                      Sub-total                  4,097,483         753,214   16.9%
                   Grand total                  24,253,890        4,458,436  100.0%
                           Based on exchange rate of 5.44 LE to US$


A.2: Village infrastructure component
Annex Table 2.4 below summarizes the status of the Project's infrastructure component: Out of a
total of 446 sub-projects, 438 (98%) have been completed and 8 (2%) are ongoing. The sub-projects
cover 10 sectors and are located in Sohag's entire Governorate, its eleven "Markaz" and benefit


                                                      32

around 650 villages. The total cost of the sub-projects is about LE 301 million (equivalent to US$
55.4 million at current exchange rates) of which LE 301 million (89%) have already been disbursed.
It is foreseen that all the on-going 8 sub-projects would be completed before the end of IDA and
IFAD Credits' grace period expect for except for "Ghabat 1" sanitation sub-project (IDA & IFAD
financed) which completely stopped late 2002 due to problems related to the contractor capacity as
well as to problems between the City Council and Sohag's Antiquities Department. The quality of
execution and supervision of the subprojects are generally satisfactory. Basic strength and materials
quality tests have been undertaken and the general quality of the projects is satisfactory. However,
the finishing-off works sometimes are not always up to standard and more rigorous construction
supervision was needed in order to ensure better quality construction.

    Annex Table 2.4: Progress of the Village Infrastructure Component (June 15, 2008)
 Sector             Total no.    CompletedOngoing Physical     Total Costs  Actual Dis-  % of Total
                    of Sub-      Sub-       Sub-Projects
                                                      Progress (LE million) bursement.   Projects Costs
                    Projects     Projects             Rate %                (LE million)
 Water                    98*         98         0         100       32.9        31.0            11
 Sanitation               11          5          6         45        73.4        59.5            24
 Irrigation              69**         69         0         100       15.6        14.8             5
 Roads (478 km)           124        124         0         100       53.8        50.3            18
 Vet. Centers             13          13         0         100       2.9          2.8             1
 Post Offices             27          27         0         100       7.2          7.0             2
 Schools                  56          56         0         100       83.1        80.3            28
 Youth Centers            27          27         2         100       7.8          7.3             3
 Social Centers           15          15         7         100       6.1          5.3             2
 Health Centers            6          4          2         67        18.5        10.6             7
 Total                    446        438         8          -        301.4       269.2          100
*        No 96 wells and 511 km of networks
**       No 44bridges and 8.4 km of covered drains

It is estimated by TAS that the total number of beneficiaries is around 2.million persons of a total
Governorate population in 1995 of around 3.1 million. This would be equivalent to about 65%
coverage, but this includes an unidentified overlap in beneficiaries of different schemes. The average
cost per beneficiary for each sector varied between LE 15 (veterinary centers) and LE 545
(sanitation) with a weighted average of about LE 110. Seven out of the ten sectors have a cost per
beneficiary less than LE 60 (see Annex 3). In addition, it is estimated that the Project managed to
increase the capacity/coverage of the different sectors by an average of 15%. Beneficiaries'
participation in the investment costs of the above infrastructure (cash or in kind) is estimated at
around 5% of the total costs, including land.

During implementation the sectoral budget channeled through the SRDP was 15.6 percent when
considering the following sectors as seen in Annex Table 2.5. This is the result of averaging
investments in sanitation, schools, roads, water and irrigation which were the main sectors supported
by the project. During FY 2004 ­ 2005 the participation of SRDP was 26.3 percent, after which it
was reduced until 11.9 percent in 2007 ­ 2008. The sectors were SRDP reached the highest average
during the implementation period were irrigation (36.8 percent), water (27.4 percent), schools (26
percent) and roads (23 percent).




                                                     33

                           Table 2.5 Budget distribution by sector from FY 200-2001 to FY 2007-2008 (in LE)



                               2000-   2001-    2002-    2003-     2004-    2005-   2006-   2007-               SRDP
             Sector                                                                                   TOTAL
                               2001    2002     2003     2004      2005     2006    2007    2008                Participation

                      SRDP
                                     0      0       636     1,950    3,960    4,239   2,659   1,360      14,804  36.8%
   Irrigation
                    Government
                                 2,500  3,000     3,500     5,500    1,953    3,950   2,258   2,779      25,440

                      SRDP
                                     0  6,817     9,353    11,170    6,769    6,457   9,552     209      50,327  23.0%
     Roads
                    Government
                                19,119  13,552    16,911   31,969    16,480  25,898  20,075  24,400     168,404

                      SRDP
                                     0  6,006     6,066    10,699    2,297    3,722   1,980     227      30,997  27.4%
     Water
                    Government
                                   n/a  9,500     11,000    8,500    10,000  12,200  23,500   7,500      82,200

                      SRDP
                                     0      0     1,007       351    6,969    7,152  18,371  25,222      59,072   7.1%
   Sanitation
                    Government
                                   n/a      0   120,300   127,700   129,000 130,120 132,200 134,100     773,420

                      SRDP
                                     0     52         0    10,578    43,613  24,461   1,501       0      80,205  26.0%
    Schools
                    Government
                                   n/a  24,000    30,000   63,500    20,700  18,500  40,000  32,000     228,700

                     SRDP
                                     0  12,875    17,062   34,748    63,608  46,031  34,063  27,018     235,405  15.6%
     Total
                   Government
                                21,619  50,052  181,711   237,169   178,133 190,668 218,033 200,779   1,278,164

SRDP Participation
                               0%       20.5%      8.6%    12.8%     26.3%   19.4%   13.5%   11.9%       15.6%




                                                            34

A.3: Rural Finance Component
LDF - Micro Credit Operations: Although starting late and slowly the micro-credit finance sub-
component under LDF has made substantial progress prior to project completion and was
effectively able to disburse the whole amount of the loan category. The disbursement, shown in
detail by activity in Annex Table 2.6, was as follows:
   ·    Disbursement: Over the course of the project, the total amount disbursed from IDA and
        IFAD Credits for LDF activities were US$2.05 and 1.73 million respectively.
   ·    Un-disbursed Amounts: As of June 15, 2008, IDA funds allocated to LDF have been
        totally utilized while about US$0.28 million still remain under the IFAD Credit (it is
        expected that this sum would be disbursed before the end of IFAD Credit grace period).
   ·    For IDA there were a total of 3,734 loans to a value of LE 11.84 million and for IFAD
        3,283 loans to a value of LE 10.92 million.
   ·    LDF has utilized all its IDA allocated funds and will exhaust its remaining IFAD funds
   ·    Diversification of loans: 30 (2 percent) of loans have been for non-agricultural purposes.
   ·    Districts Of 51 Local Units in Sohag, LDF is dealing with 49
   ·    Gender 46% of IDA funded loans were for females and 50% of IFAD funded loans

   ·    Youth. Also efforts were made towards the end of the project to target the youth and
        between November 2007 and April 2008, 75% of loans were for youth under the age of
        25.




                                            35

Annex Table 2.6: LDF Loan Status (March 23, 2008): by Economic Activity IDA, IBRD and IFAD loans

                           No. of    No. of       %     LDF loans   Beneficiary    Total      Investment  %             US$ per
                           projects  female     female    (LE)      contribution investment   per project beneficiary    project
                                     projects  projects                (LE)        (LE)         (LE)      contribution


                   Poultry       7           4 57.1%        16,000        1,500        17,500      2,500     9.4%      460

        Animal production    6,753       3,322 49.2%     21,971,500  2,678,266    24,649,766       3,650    12.2%      671

                     Milk         -          - 0.0%               -            -            -           -    0.0%      -

                     Bees        1           - 0.0%          3,000          750         3,750      3,750    25.0%      689

          Food production         -          - 0.0%               -            -            -           -    0.0%      -

          Food processing         -          - 0.0%               -            -            -           -    0.0%      -

   Agricultural processing      21           2 9.5%        108,700       33,250      141,950       6,760    30.6%      1,243

   Workshops/blacksmiths       198         139 70.2%       478,700       62,325      541,025       2,732    13.0%      502

                Transport         -          - 0.0%               -            -            -           -    0.0%      -

                  Storage       19           9 47.4%        61,000       12,750        73,750      3,882    20.9%      714

                  Flowers        3           2 66.7%         9,000        2,250        11,250      3,750    25.0%      689

                 Bakeries        3           1 33.3%        28,000        7,000        35,000     11,667    25.0%      2,145

                    Other       12           5 41.7%        85,000       25,400      110,400       9,200    29.9%      1,691

                    Total    7,017       3,484 49.7%     22,760,900  2,823,491    25,584,391       3,646    12.4%      670
Of which animal
production                 96.2%        95.4%    49.2%      96.5%        94.9%         96.3%     100.1%     12.2%




                                             36

Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit

Lending through Community Based Organizations: A number of intractable problems
prevented the establishment of indirect lending activities. The main one was that banking
regulations preclude from lending if no sizeable guaranties are taken and NGOs generally
can't offer them. The decision was taken in December 2007 to halt further attempts at on-
lending to NGO's by PBDAC.

Individual Lending: As of June 15, 2008, a total of 1,931 individual micro-credit loans were
approved under both IDA and IFAD Credits. The total value of all loans was LE 11.35 million.
The value of micro loans was valued at between LE 3,000 and 10,000. Interest rates were set at
13.5% all inclusive. With a six month maximum grace period, the principal and interest are
due in equal monthly installments over a minimum period of three months and a maximum of
twenty four months. By the project end:
    ·    The number of loan officers was increased to a total number of 88.
    ·    A Technical Assistance Plan was implemented in which trainings were conducted on
         micro-credit policies and procedures in 26 of the 71 Village Banks.
    ·    BDAC increased its coverage to 44 Village Banks (there are 71 Village Banks and 11
         Branches in Sohag).
    ·    Of all the loans granted since July 2006 (the period for which detailed data are
         available), 42% of the loans are for agriculture and 44% for trade, 11% for services and
         3% for industry related activities (see Annex Table 2.7).
    ·    In the period since July 2006 the percentage of loans to females has decreased from
         37% to 34%.
    ·    Over the course of the project, the total amount disbursed from IDA and IFAD Credits
         for BDAC activities were US$0.83 and 0.63 million respectively

Annex Table 2.7: BDAC Loan Status# (IDA and IFAD loans)
 Activity                     Number       Value of     Percent by  Percent  Loan per    Loan per
                              of loans       loans       number    by value project (LE)  project
                                             (LE)                                         (US$)


 Agriculture                        186    1,183,800        41.5%    35.8%        6,365      1,170

 Industry                            14     113,000          3.1%      3.4%       8,071      1,484

 Services                            51     385,400         11.4%    11.6%        7,557      1,389

 Trade                              197    1,628,500        44.0%    49.2%        8,266      1,520

 Total loans                        448    3,310,700         100%     100%        7,390      1,358


 Total female loans                 153    1,070,150
 Total female loans as %         34.2%        32.3%
# For the period from July 2006 to end of February 2008.




                                                   37

Part B: Supplementary Analysis of Cross-Cutting Issues

This section provides supplementary information on a number of cross-cutting issues, that
effected the implementation of the project, including: planning and environmental
management; gender inclusion and participation; infrastructure O&M; civil works contract
implementation and M&E.

B.1 Sub-project Planning, Ranking and Environmental Management

Environmental planning and social safeguard issues were not explicitly reviewed by the
supervision missions since the Mid Term Review (September 8th ­ 25th 2003). The ICR
mission revisited the issue to confirm that the procedures outlined in the PAD had been
followed.


Thus, based on discussions with TAS team and a selection of stakeholders the process for
environmental planning and management followed by the TAS team was as follows:

      ·   A modified SHROUK participatory planning process was initiated with the village
          communities through LAUs to select and rank potential rural infrastructure sub-
          projects ­ at this stage without estimating the budget costs. This process was steered by
          guidelines in a handbook prepared by TAS.28

      ·   Considerations of social safeguards (land ownership, social equity and targeting
          concerns) were an integral part of this planning process29.

      ·   To facilitate this process TAS provided a series of 3-day sensitization/capacity building
          training courses to LAU staff, line ministries and beneficiaries in village surveys,
          participatory planning, policy development and the preparation of sectoral plans.
          Around 7% of the trainees were female30.

      ·   Staff of TAS31 moderated the planning process, using a number of tools, including
          PRA, wealth ranking, asset mapping and problem tree analysis.

      ·   The result of this process was an outline village priority development plan (now
          generally described as a unified "annual plan").

      ·   The local administrative units prepared a decision note on the planning consultation
          process ­ prioritizing the community's preferences in terms of potential sub-projects.




28 TAS (April 2003). Guidelines for Planning of Infrastructure Projects in Egypt. Chemonics Egypt/Ahmed Gaber and
Associates. This guide outlined simple participatory planning techniques that the Markez and villages could follow, including
(i) the general rules for project planning, (ii) methods for evaluating demand, making needs assessment, and for defining and
prioritizing projects, (iii) project formulation, (iv) feasibility study preparation, including economic analysis environmental
impact assessment and (v) physical planning methodologies.
29 PAD recommendations that equity and gender-specific criteria for sub-project selection were not explicitly implemented,
but were encompassed in a number of the health and income generating related training programs.
30 In addition, environmental awareness raising campaigns were conducted, which had a much higher female participation
rates (70%).
31 The role of TAS covered both the social/rural development as well as rural engineering aspects. Follows up of project
progress in TAS was jointly undertaken.



                                                              38

     ·    Environmental screening forms were filled out by LAUs (under the guidance TAS32)
          for each of the sub-projects. Generally most of the sub-projects were in the Class B
          category       (moderate         impact)33,      including       irrigation,      road      rehabilitation         and
          improvements, water and sanitation, and health centre sub-projects. Building sub-
          projects were classified as Class A.

     ·    TAS made a technical and financial assessment (based on the Bank selection and cost
          effectiveness criteria) of the potential sub-projects in conjunction with the
          implementing body (local authority or line ministry).

     ·    Potential land use and other planning conflicts (e.g. possible social conflicts, use of
          land with potential archaeological remains34, etc.) were also checked at this time.

     ·    Any potential conflict with the technical feasibility was referred back by TAS to the
          village communities, through the local administrative units, in order to reach an agreed
          compromise on what sub-projects were both technically and financially feasible, but
          would still match their priorities and needs.

     ·    The availability of land for the sub-projects was checked with the Real Estate Recorder
          of the Ministry of Justice, who confirmed whether the land was either already owned
          by the potential sub-project implementer or had been legally assigned as a gift by the
          community or landowner. Resettlement was not an issue with any of the projects and
          roads were improved on existing alignments and within existing road reserves.

     ·    TAS collated the list of sub-projects into a final agreed overall annual work program
          and budget.

     ·    Environmental screening forms were submitted by LAUs (with TAS over-sight) to the
          Governorate Environmental Affairs Department (EAD).

     ·    The screening forms were checked by the Governorate EAD to confirm whether the
          correct classification had been adopted and whether the proposal conforms to
          environmental regulations and best practices prescribed in Law 4/1994 and in the
          Sohag Environmental Action Plan (EAP). The screening forms were then sent to the
          Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEEA) in Cairo for approval.

     ·    The ultimate approvals for environmental matters were sent by EEEA to LAUs (copied
          to TAS) ­with a separate certificate for each sub-project, together with any conditions
          and/or mitigation requirements35.



32
   TAS (March 2003). Terms of Reference for Environmental Review of Sub-Projects. Chemonics Egypt.
33Class A ­ effectively no impact. Class C: high impact requiring a full environmental impact assessment. The only potential
project that could have been classified as class C were slaughterhouses, but these were not selected as priority projects by any
of the communities during the planning process.
34There appears to have been only one case of potential conflict with heritage concerns ­ the construction of stage 1 of the El
Rabat sanitation project (adjacent to the Abydos Monument site). The Department of Antiquities required a payment of LE
19,200 for due diligence survey work, which was rejected by the Department of Housing and Utilities and the project could
not be proceeded with.
35The mitigation recommendations of EEEA did not generally present any technical difficulties for the LAUs in
implementing sub-projects. The only sector where additional tests were required (to those part of normal engineering
implementation procedures) was potable water supply. These water quality tests (mainly for the presence of magnesium and
iron) were undertaken by the Department of Health ­ the results of these tests are not available in Sohag.



                                                          39

    ·     The final review and planning approval/decree for proceeding with the sub-projects
          came from the committee of the Implementation Popular Council36 and was signed-off
          by the Governor.

Overall, the participatory planning process that was followed conforms satisfactorily to that
outlined in the PAD, although there are some variations ­ which are indicative of: a) the poor
coordination among components; and b) the failure to build capacity at the Governorate level.
For example, the PAD recommendation that a separate regional steering committee should be
established, involving the line ministries, district committees and NGOs, did not occur. At
national level the PAD recommended that the Inter-ministerial Committee for Rural
Development should act as the project's national steering committee to ensure coordination
with other national programs ­ this again was not acted on.

Another difference was with analysis of the sub-projects. Economic analysis of sub-projects
was only prescribed in the PAD for projects where the cost exceeded US$250,000 and where a
minimum ERR of 12% was required. These criteria exclusively applied to only health and
sanitation projects ­ but economic analysis of these was not undertaken, as TAS believed that
it was inappropriate for such sub-projects in which the benefits were almost exclusively health
related. The MTR (and supervision missions), although recommending that simplified cost
benefit analysis was required for water supply, sanitation, roads and canal covering economic
infrastructure projects, did not provide any model format that could be used for such analysis,
other than for rural roads (and not used, as all the roads cost less than US$250,000).

One area that both the PAD and MTR stressed was the need for the project to build on
connections to the UK-DFID financed Support to Environmental Assessment and
Management project (SEAM) in the Sohag Governorate. The intention was for a parallel
project Environmental Management Project (EMP) to be implemented with GOE,
Governorate, DFID, World Bank and IFAD funds37. The purpose was to strengthen the
Governorate's EMU, to review SRDP sub-projects, provide environmental awareness and
training programs and to monitor and report on environmental aspects of SRDP. In reality, the
EMP was not established and the only collaboration with the SEAM project, located in the
external management office of the Governorate, would seem to have been in the design and
documentation of sanitation sub-projects. The intention in the PAD that environmental aspects
should be the responsibility of GOS EAD (entitled Environmental Management Unit in the
PAD) was not feasible within the national administrative procedures of the EEAA.
Environmental awareness campaigns were, however, executed in collaboration with the EAD.

B.2 Analysis of Gender Inclusion and Participation Issues

A large number of activities were implemented by the project in order to enhance community
participation and gender inclusion in all three project components.

Community Participation in needs assessments: The infrastructure sub-projects
implemented by the project were identified during meetings at the village local unit level using
participatory methods modeled on the SHROUK approach (see Annex B.1 above). The


36The Council is chaired by the Governor and comprises representatives of all the line ministries concerned with
development.
37Total value US$ 976,080, of which DFID was meant to contribute US$ 722,000 and IDA/IFAD US$ 120,500. GOE
contribution was meant to LE 452,8490.



                                                      40

percentage of women participating in the needs assessment meetings organized by the Local
Village Units increased gradually during the implementation of the project from 0 percent in
2001 to 22.4 percent in 2006 (the last year of needs assessment meetings). In addition to
promoting beneficiary and community involvement with the local units the project further
intensified outreach to the poor and marginalized beneficiaries by working with five
Community Development Associations (CDA's) (training a total of 10) in order to establish a
parallel structure of needs assessment identification in five Local Village Units. The five
CDA's reached a total of 635 individuals though 30 separate meetings with a modest average
female participation rate of 11 percent. The needs identified by the CDA's were then
compared with those generated though the SHROUK methodology in order to ensure
consistency and validate the village priorities and promote greater community participation.

Beneficiary knowledge and sustainability of participatory methods: Based on a limited
and modest data gathering exercise in 2006 (seven focus group discussions in seven different
villages with a total of 42 participants) an indication was obtained of villager participation in
the local unit meetings (51 meetings every FY to identify communities basic needs and rank
priorities). The survey results indicated that 90 percent of males and 75 percent of females
clearly understood the participatory processes. However, during site visits by the Bank
supervisory team, it was observed that none of the randomly interviewed female beneficiaries
had participated in any needs assessment meetings and only a very few had even heard of the
meetings. At the local unit level the response was mixed: in some of the local units (on only a
few occasions were women present) some local unit representatives had very little knowledge
of the methodologies employed in the selection of sub-projects; in others they were more
aware and had been involved in the meetings themselves or at the least had heard of them. It is
therefore difficult to state with any degree of certainly the extent to which the participatory
methods (encouraged during the needs assessment meetings and modeled on the SHROUK
approach), and which led to an increase in female and community participation in need
assessments exercises for this project, are widely known and understood by the communities
and therefore the extent these methodologies will continue to be employed after the project.

Gender and participation in training: Through the institutional strengthening component,
the project has provided training to 7,691 participants through 383 courses over the course of
1,515 days, of which an average of 30.2 percent participants was female. Beneficiaries ranged
from line ministry staff, to credit specialists and CDA's as well as female community
members. In the case of the latter 300 women were trained in rabbit production, dairy
processing and food processing. The demand and interest in these skills trainings for women
was high although the total number of women reached limited.

Gender and the Credit Component: Almost 50 percent of the micro-credit loans from LDF
are for females and 34 percent for BDAC. LDF has also made efforts to target the youth,
particularly towards the end of the project and for example between November 2007 and April
2008, 75 percent of loans were for youth under the age of 25.

ID Cards: The percentage of women from the waiting lists having ID cards is now 57 percent
and the percentage that has been issued voting cards is now 47 percent. Through the IFAD
grant for women's self empowerment 18,000 women were supplied with ID cards through the
project.




                                             41

B.3 Analysis of Infrastructure O&M
The PAD has highly ambitious targets for the O&M of village infrastructure­ with an expected
100 percent contribution from the beneficiaries to O&M after 3 years. The PAD also assumed
that village O&M plans would be prepared. In reality, in most sectors the beneficiary
contribution is very low and many cases non-existent. Mission estimates of the current
arrangements and funding mechanisms for O&M by infrastructure sector are given in Annex
Table 2.7 below. The table estimates the annual amount that is available in the Sohag
Governorate for maintenance and indicates what this represents as a percentage the real
requirements for O&M. The contribution of the beneficiaries is also estimated as part of the
total available funds. Beneficiary contributions are generally most effective when related to set
service charges (particularly for sanitation) or where activities are in part at least relying on
income generating activities. In the case of roads and water supply the modest sums for
maintenance that have already been collected have been lodged in village bank accounts and
are yet to be expended.

What is also clear from Annex Table 2.8 is that adequate funds are only really available in
three cases ­ sanitation, health centres and education, whilst funds for irrigation, water supply,
and youth centres are not adequate but do allow the facilities to function without impacting too
badly on the condition of the asset. The worst arrangements are found in the roads, social
centres and veterinary centres. Whilst the later two have some revenues to cover O&M the
provision for roads is extremely dire. Roads, amongst all civil works created assets depreciate
in value most rapidly and in the present circumstances this is the asset that has least provision
and the greatest need.

Thus, for the majority of the infrastructure no funds are available for preventative maintenance
­either on a regular (normally annual) routine basis or recurrently (typically between 3 to 5
years for periodic maintenance and renewal e.g. painting outside buildings). The limited funds
that are available are used for corrective maintenance, which in many cases would only cover
the most urgent and serious of repairs ­ required to meet health and safety requirements. Funds
for other essential works, which would prevent the deterioration of an asset's value and life,
are not generally available.




                                            42

Annex Table 2.8: Maintenance Arrangements and Funding Mechanisms for the Different Sectors
Sector         Assets at the Funding Maintenance Funding Mechanisms                                    Estimation of Available    %age of real
               Governorate   Agency                                                                    Funds (LE million/year)    requirements
               Level                                                                                                              for maintenance
                                                                                                                                  (of which
                                                                                                                                  beneficiary
                                                                                                                                  contribution is)
1. Water       1,500 km of   MOH     Maintenance costs is estimated at LE 1,500/km of pipelines.       1.00                       22% (50%)
               pipelines and and     Sources of funding are: own budget and one time contribution
               268 pumping   Holding from beneficiaries of EP1, 000/km. Current water tariffs are LE
               stations      Company 0.23/m3. Funds collected will go back to the newly created
                                     Holding Company for potable water and sanitation in Cairo.
                                     Available funds are not adequate.
2. Sanitation  341 km of     NAPWS   The budget made available is for procurement and O&M of           1.00 + a small part of the 80-100% (100%)
               networks +            equipment. Costs for operating the systems are provided by        3.00 million available
               73 of                 beneficiaries. Beneficiaries pay an additional sum of 30-50% of   from the rehabilitation
               pressurized           their water bill towards sanitation.                              budget for maintenance
               pipes and             Available funds from NAPWS are adequate. In future, funds         (unknown) + contribution
               11 stations           will come from the newly created national and affiliated          by NAPWS (unknown)
                                     governorate level holding company, which will contact private
                                     service providers to operate the system.
3. Irrigation  941 wells +   MOWRI   The Ministry budget covers all activities. No special budget for  4.5                        25% (0%)
               16 km of              wells + covered drains.
               canal                 Available funds are not adequate.
               covering +
               1,000 km of
               canals
4. Roads       3,200 km      MOH     Yearly budgets for maintenance are prepared based on LE           0.05                       1.5% (10%)
               (excluding            1,000/km. It should come from 3 sources: i) own budget; ii)
               roads within          fuel taxes (LE 0.1 m), and iii) levies on quarries (LE 0.30 m) as
               the main              well as a one time contribution from the beneficiaries of LE
               towns)                1,000/km. These first two sums are collected, but never
                                     allocated to maintenance but rather to new roads and/or other
                                     infrastructure. Available funds for maintenance are extremely
                                     low. Government funds are solely used for emergency repairs.
5. Veterinary  120 centers   MOA     Yearly requirement are sent to Cairo but funds received are       0.02                       Less than 10%
Centers                              extremely low. Maintenance are covered mainly by the Centers                                 (maximum 75%)
                                     own income (visits/interventions).
                                     Available funds for maintenance are very low.



                                              43

Annex Table 2.8: Maintenance Arrangements and Funding Mechanisms for the Different Sectors (continued)
Sector            Assets at     Funding Maintenance Funding Mechanisms                                  Estimation of Available   %age of real
                  the           Agency                                                                  Funds (LE million/year)   requirements for
                  Governorate                                                                                                     maintenance (of
                  Level                                                                                                           which
                                                                                                                                  beneficiary
                                                                                                                                  contribution is)
6. Post Offices   256 offices   POA     Yearly requirements are prepared based on 0.5% of the initial   0.10                      20% (0%)
                                        investments and sent to Cairo HQ.
                                        Amounts received are very low.

7. Schools        1,152         MOE     Yearly requirements are prepared based on 1% of the             8.20                      60% (less than
                  schools               investment costs including furniture and equipment. Some                                  15%)
                                        limited funds are collected from students and the rest from own
                                        budget. Lately there was LE 0.20 million contribution from the
                                        private sector.
                                        Available sums are not optimal but acceptable.
8. Youth          178 centers   MOY     Yearly requirements are prepared based on 0.05 % of the         None from the ministry    30% (100%)
Centers                                 investments, but rarely met. However, the Centers have their    and about LE 3,000/center
                                        own resources from the range of activities they provide.        from own income
                                        Available funds are not adequate.
9. Social         123 centers   MOSA    No funds are being provided from the MOSA for maintenance.      Minimal from the          12.5 (30%)
Centers                                 Most of the centers are in a bad shape and need extensive       ministry and about LE
                                        rehabilitation. The Centers generate their own resources from   5,000/center
                                        own activities.
                                        Available funds are very low.
10. Health        283 centers   MOH     Yearly requirements are prepared (1 %).                         1.5                       50% (50%)
Centers                                 Available sums are not optimal but acceptable.


MOH      Ministry of Health                              NAPWSNational Authority for Potable Water and Sanitation
MOWRIMinistry of Water Resources and Irrigation          MOH       Ministry of Health
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture                         POA       Post Office Authority
MOE      Ministry of Education                           MOY       Ministry of Youth
MOSA Ministry of Social Affairs




                                                   44

B.4 Analysis of Contract Implementation Issues

Based on detailed discussions with the TAS team and a selection of local contractors on their
implementation experiences and reviewing contractual concerns that have been raised during
Bank supervision missions some clear recommendations have emerged that would improve the
implementation of future projects:

   a) Changes       are    needed   to  procurement,     tendering    and     contract management
        methods/procedures. A separate financial unit needs to be created within the Governorate
        (the main Implementing Agency) to be entrusted with all financial transactions and
        payments related to contracts under the Project. This would have saved a time of all
        concerned (Implementing Agencies, Contractors, Suppliers, Technical Assistance
        Secretariat, etc.). Members of this unit should be well qualified and trained and provided
        with adequate incentives. They would be given clear sets of responsibilities and
        obligations as well as enough authority to be able to take decisions and to speed up the
        payments.

   b) One of the main problems that contractors faced in procurement and tendering was delays
        in payment. This might be solved by depositing all counterpart funds with the Sohag
        Governorate, which in turns would pay the contractors and suppliers. This would have
        been beneficial to the Project and would have saved time for all concerned (e.g. for the
        health projects, the payment of the counterpart funds were usually delayed by up to 6
        months). This proposal would ensure speedy payment of the counterpart funds and
        consequently of the IDA/IFAD funds which, at present, cannot be paid separately.

B.5 Analysis of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Issues
This section analyses the main characteristics of the M&E function of SRDP examining the three
dimensions of design, implementation and utilization, and tries to identify reasons for its main
weaknesses.


Design: The original M&E design suffered from serious flaws and the project was appraised at a
time when the Bank was less concerned about M&E Over 31 Performance Indicators (PI) were
identified in the Project Design Summary (PAD, Annex 1). The targets set for most of them were
either (a) overambitious (i.e. 100 percent of O&M financed through beneficiaries after 3 years);
(b) unspecific "percentage of households with access to basic infrastructure (to be determined
during implementation)"; or (c) input-related (all indicators for component 2 and 3). The PAD
did not mention the need to determine baseline values for these indicators, a requirement left to
the MoU and never implemented. On the other hand, the PAD produced general statements such
as "effectives of operations will be examined through annual surveys of quality control,
beneficiary assessments and impact evaluations" [PAD, p24] for which no resources were
allocated and no specific arrangements were made.


Successive supervision missions provided erratic advice and follow up. The supervision mission
of 2001 agreed on a Monitoring Framework basically reflecting the key PI contained in the PAD.
Despite the agreement contained in the MoU for conducting a baseline study to set base values
for the indicators, baseline values were never collected. BDAC and LDF agreed to collect and
compile data for their specific indicators, but did not do so until well into 2007.




                                                  45

The June 2002 mission praised the PIU for the amount of generic data collected, but noticed that
information regarding the project's impact was missing. It required that such information be
collected, but without specifically mentioning the M&E framework decided at appraisal. Instead,
and probably as a result of recognized weaknesses in the PAD framework, the mission required
that a new set of indicators be prepared.


The 2003 MTR review openly recognized for the first time that the PAD M&E framework
contained overambitious goals. It cautiously delayed the reporting on the number of
beneficiaries, and revised downwards the targets for beneficiaries' contribution to O&M costs to
"take into account the real situation on the ground". The percentage targets for rural roads, water
infrastructure were reduced from 100 to 20 and 30 percent respectively, whilst those related to
social infrastructure and canals covering to 0 percent. Once again, the mission requested that
quarterly progress reports containing these data be prepared by TAS. In May 2005, the mission
recommended expanding a pilot survey exercise (pre-survey) and suggested the introduction of a
revised set of indicators, partly reflecting the original and partly adding new ones, to be decided
during an ad-hoc "M&E mission" in July 2005. The mission (led by an external M&E
consultant) introduced 25 new `key impact indicators', expanding an already large list and
introducing further lack clarity by through indicators such as `number of sectors where
improvements have been introduced' or "% of availability of O&M costs on a sustainable basis".


The 2006 supervision mission noted the implementation of the post-survey but did not report on
the `restructuring' of the M&E framework recommended by the previous mission. Instead, it
urged TAS to "Provide training in M&E for the Project Team members". The last three
supervision missions (May 2007-March 2008) noted the work done by TAS through its post1
and post2 surveys; encouraged TAS to clarify the methodology used and the reliability of the
data collected, and recommended that a further survey be carried out based on a larger and more
representative sample, and with inclusion of quantitative data, with a view to fill data gaps
related to Key PI, especially in relation to credit component.


Implementation: The M&E function has suffered from weak capacity and supervision. The first
TAS (2000-2005) did not have any staff positions specifically assigned to M&E, and capacity
shortcomings were identified from the first supervision mission. Yet, no training was
recommended. M&E tasks were split amongst staff with no clear experience and mainly assigned
to other duties (social development, accounting, etc). No lead M&E person within TAS was
identified until late 2005. The situation was improved in the second TAS (2005-2008). No
specific budget allocation was dedicated to M&E activities. No training was recommended by
the WB mission until 2006 (not implemented). The only M&E training actually implemented (on
impact evaluation) was agreed with TAS in 2007 and intervened in January 08, six months
before closure.


These affected the quality of outputs. The pre-survey (2005), as well as the post1 (Jan.2006) and
post-2 (July 2006) surveys were implemented by the Social team. Based essentially on
qualitative techniques aimed to find trends, the data collected succeeded to partly document the
main achievements of the infrastructure and (to a lesser degree) the institutional strengthening
component. Based essentially on beneficiaries' perceptions, the surveys though suffered from
methodological weaknesses in terms of selection of respondents, ways to administer the
questionnaire, weighing of scores, and interpreting change. In 2008 a larger survey was
implemented based on a larger sample and introducing some quantitative data, which provides



                                                  46

the basis for the beneficiary assessment included in this ICR. Until 2007, there was limited or no
data regarding the credit component, beneficiaries. This was redressed during the last 18 months
of project implementation, with a view to provide data against the key performance indicators.


Utilization: Use of M&E data in project management has been limited to checking beneficiaries'
perceptions of general `benefits'. Despite the substantive quantity of work put into the collection
of perception-based data, no attempt to draw lessons from it appears to have taken place. As to
the credit component, the two implementing agencies (BDAC and LDF) regard the monitoring of
their credit lines, beneficiaries etc merely as a requirement to which they are indifferent at best,
and unsympathetic at worst. After closure, it is expected that no institutionalization of M&E
within the three implementing agencies will take place.

B.6: Review of Project Financial Management Aspects

The project's financial management (FM) implementation has varied between the three
implementing agencies responsible for the three components of the project as follows:


The FM implementation carried out by Sohag Governorate (responsible for the Institutional
Strengthening and Village Infrastructure components) was to a large extent satisfactory.
Quarterly reports were generated in a timely manner, including providing sufficient details about
the expenditure categories and detailed breakdowns at the contract level. The flow of funds was
considered to be acceptable. Access to the client connection has helped in following up on
disbursements and conducting periodic reconciliations between the Bank and the Project's
records. The audit reports were also submitted in a timely manner. The quality of the audit
reports however was often an issue of concern requiring subsequent follow up from the Bank to
clarify issues reported, calculation errors or presentation mistakes.


The performance of the rural finance sub-component implemented by PBDAC involved
frequently arising FM issues. The flow of funds under this subcomponent did not run smoothly,
mainly a result of the lack of common agreement regarding the micro credits lending
arrangements between the beneficiary NGOs, Sohag BDAC and the PBDAC headquarters. This
subcomponent also experienced reporting delays and delayed audit reports submissions. In
addition, the reporting lines between the village banks, the branches of Sohag BDAC, and the
Micro-finance Unit at Sohag BDAC were not clearly documented, formalized and enforced to
ensure timeliness and accountability.


The performance the rural finance sub-component implemented by LDF experienced two
different stages throughout the project life. While it was significantly delayed in initiating its
lending activities, the disbursements later picked up towards the middle of the project life. The
flow of funds however was not smooth enough due to the nature of the logistical requirements
relating to this component. The transmission of the funds from the World Bank through the
National Investment Bank (via an account held at the National Bank of Egypt), then to LDF's
account at PBDAC, then to LDF units in Sohag resulted in a lengthy flow of funds process and
occasional bottlenecks, which was further complicated by the low special account ceiling.


The main lessons learned were as follows:

    1. To ensure proper monitoring of the project funding, the reconciliation of the project
        disbursements should factor in the SDR exchange rates applicable at the time of



                                                  47

  withdrawals. This becomes more crucial towards the end of the project especially to
  avoid over-commitment and potential funding shortage.

2. To avoid delays in project execution, implementation readiness supported by finalized
  agreements that are endorsed by all involved parties on the flow of funds process should
  be secured ahead of effectiveness.

3. The reliance on the existing staffing capacities at the FM level can work effectively
  provided a clearly defined system is established and the implementing entity shows
  enough commitment.

4. The flow of funds arrangements should support efficient project implementation while
  maintaining proper controls over expenditures. The lengthy flow of funds process
  through multiple layers does not necessarily ensure better control. Alternative control
  arrangements such as spot checks and field visits can be more efficient in tracking the use
  of funds while not affecting the smoothness in the flow of funds and the timely
  availability of financing.




                                         48

                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis



The project was designed to address two objectives of the CAS: (a) improving rural income; and
(b) improving natural resource management by: (i) improving income and quality of life in rural
communities, and (ii) mobilizing and improving equitable access to credit for the poor and for
unemployed youth and women. This strategy identified, among others, the need to implement
measures for the agricultural sector within the context of an overall rural development strategy,
which should encompass aspects related to diversifying rural activities and provide key services,
in particular, sustainable intensification of agricultural production and essential social programs
for health and education. Agricultural production was to be intensified through: (i) extensive
access to credit to be made available with the rural credit component (implemented by BDAC
and LDF/MALR); and (ii) the village infrastructure component (implemented by the enhanced
coordinated activities of TAS/Governorate/line ministries).

The PAD did not include an economic and financial analysis for the overall project, but included
financial analysis of typical investments to be supported by the credit component and indicated
cost-effectiveness criteria for the selection of infrastructure investments:
    ·   The financial analysis for the Credit Component was based on (i) typical loans which the
        Sohag BDAC and LDF were providing at the time of appraisal; and (ii) investment
        profiles prepared for the IDA financed AMP in Egypt. The Financial Rate of Return
        (FRR) calculation for selected investment profiles indicated a high profitability of the
        expected investment: livestock production (26 ­ 35 percent), agricultural processing (36 ­
        50 percent), honey production (38 percent), and four agro-related enterprises based on the
        experience of the AMP: small and medium-scale custom service small operation (24
        percent), small-scale wheat milling (29 percent), and medium-scale horticultural sorting
        and packing station (39 percent).
    ·   The majority of sub-projects under the infrastructure component were to be appraised
        against a cost per unit or cost per beneficiary criteria following the standard procedure
        applied in similar World Bank projects. A rate of return calculation would only be
        required for a small number of sub-projects for economic infrastructure with both
        quantifiable benefits and costs exceeding US$250,000. This was justified on the basis of:
        (i) the demand-driven character of the sub-project identification, which did not allow a
        detailed up front planning of the entire investment program, and (ii) the benefits of sub-
        projects which are not direct quantifiable.


For sub-projects with mainly non-monetary benefits and for small sub-projects for economic and
municipal infrastructure with an investment volume below US$250,000, a maximum cost per
unit or cost per beneficiary criteria was to be considered. The database for these indicators would
be continually updated and extended during project implementation to become a practical tool
for sub-project appraisal. Investment cost per unit would be kept within subsector norms and
consistent with the norms used by SFD.


Feasibility studies were foreseen to evaluate sub-project alternatives in order to identify schemes
which are both cost-effective and provide high benefits. These studies would consider both
quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits from the different alternatives and the results would be
submitted to the decision makers and the SHROUK committees at the village level in order to
increase the transparency and trust in the SHROUK process. An additional appraisal criterion
would be the commitment of the beneficiaries to contribute: (i) at least 10 percent to the



                                                  49

investment costs, either in-cash or in-kind; and (ii) 100 percent to the incremental O&M cost
after three years. These appraisal criteria requirements would be assessed for each type of sub-
projects and would be reviewed annually to incorporate experience gained in field operations.

Analysis for the Rural Finance Component

As indicated in section 1.6 and Annex Tables 2.5 and 2.6 of the main text on this report from the
original US$26.7 million assigned to the rural finance component, only about US$5 million were
used under the individual micro-credit line channeled through LDF (US$4.2 million) and BDAC
(US$600,000): a total of about 7,500 loans, with an average amount of US$670 (7,017 loans)
through LDF and US$1,358 (448 loans) through BDAC. About 6,900 of these loans,
representing more than 85 percent of the total micro-credit loans, went to finance dairy
production.


In the Annex Table 3.1 a financial analysis of the result of a typical micro-credit loan is
presented to analyze the impact this component had at the beneficiaries' level. As can be seen in
the Table, net income would increase by more than 100 percent after the repayment of the loan in
the third year. The FRR after financing was estimated to be 155 percent.


 Annex Table 3.1 Micro-credit for New Cow/Buffalo Activity Micro-credit                            Year
 FINANCIAL BUDGET (In US$)                                              Before                          After With Project
                                                                        1 to 20        1             2             3      4 to 20

    Main Production 1/                                                        -        300.0         457.5         457.5    457.5
       Milk                                                                   -        300.0         300.0         300.0    300.0
       Improved Calf                                                          -             -        157.5         157.5    157.5
    Off Farm Employment                                                  360.0         360.0         360.0         360.0    360.0
       INFLOWS                                                           360.0         660.0         817.5         817.5    817.5
    Production Cost
       Investment Cow/Buffalo                                                 -      1,000.0              -            -         -
       Operating                                                              -         86.0          86.0          86.0      86.0
           Agricultural Products                                              -         80.0          80.0          80.0      80.0
           Vet Costs paid by beneficiaries                                    -           6.0           6.0         6.0        6.0
       OUTFLOWS                                                               -      1,086.0          86.0          86.0      86.0
    Cash Flow Before Financing                                           360.0        -426.0         731.5         731.5    731.5
    Net Financing                                                             -      1,077.4        -448.6        -448.6         -
    Cash Flow After Financing                                            360.0         651.4         282.9         282.9    731.5
    Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                                             -       -286.0              -            -         -
    Farm Family Benefits After Financing                                 360.0         365.4         282.9         282.9    731.5

 FRR = 155.5%, NPV = 1,771.97
 1/ Production per year is averaged considering that every 6 years the cow is substituted by a new one raised by the beneficiary
 Hence it is assumed that 0.75 calves are sold (3 calves for 4 years) every year. About 1,500 liters of milk is produced per cow
 p.a.


Annex Table 3.2 shows the ERR of the 6,900 micro-credit financed loans represented by the
above described model, after adjusting labor costs with a conversion factor of 0.5.




                                                                50

 Annex Table 3.2 Micro-credit for Livestock (6,900 Subprojects)
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$ '000)                                  Year
                                                 1 to 3     4    5      6          7      8 to 20

    Main Production
       Milk                                           -     300   600   1,200      2,070    2,070
       Improved Calf                                  -       -   158     315        630    1,087
    Sub-total Main Production                         -     300   758   1,515      2,700    3,157
    Production Cost
       Investment
          Cow/Buffalo                                 -   1,000 1,000   2,000      2,900         -
       Operating
          Purchased Inputs
              Agricultural Products                   -      80   160     320        552      552
              Vet Costs paid by beneficiaries         -      6     12      24         41       41
          Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                  -      86   172     344        593      593
          Labor
              Labor                                   -      90   180     360        621      621
       Sub-total Operating Costs                      -     176   352     704      1,214    1,214
    Sub-Total Production Cost                         -   1,176 1,352   2,704      4,114    1,214
       OUTFLOWS                                       -   1,176 1,352   2,704      4,114    1,214
    Cash Flow                                         -    -876  -595  -1,189     -1,414    1,942

 IRR = 31.5%, NPV = 3,507.63


The ERR of the micro-credit component was estimated at 31.5 percent and the net present value
(NPV) at US$3.5 million, confirming the high impact of supporting income generating activities
in rural areas.

Economic Analysis for the Village Infrastructure Component
The implementation of the village infrastructure component financed about 446 subprojects
involving an investment of LE 301.4 million and covering 10 sectors as detailed in the following
Annex Table 2.4:


The ICR mission visited about 20 subprojects financed by the SRDP to observe the built
infrastructure, interviewing competent informants and gathering relevant information from
beneficiaries for analyzing the impact of representative cases for the first seven sector
investments in Annex Table 2.4. They represent about 86.3 percent of the project investments
under the village infrastructure component. From the mission visits average parameters and
values were defined for the different type of subprojects in order to represent the typical
investment per sector. Following is a summary of the analyzed case studies.

Schools: It is well known that investments in education reduce unemployment among those it
targets by increasing the market relevance and quality of the educated. New entrants to the labor
market are more likely to get hired and employees are more prepared to keep their jobs. All else
equal, education should increase the labor productivity of people. Building of new schools to
avoid overcrowded existing schools not only enhances the quality as the number of students per
teacher is reduced but also reduces the cost incurred by children to go to school every day,
increases enrollment rates especially among girls, and decreases repetitions. It has been
estimated for Egypt that if only a two percent increase in the net enrollment in basic education is
achieved, the benefit-to-cost ratio is 2.29. The Annex Table 3.3 summarizes the economic
analysis for the typical school scheme financed by SRDP.


 Annex Table 3.3 New School Subproject Model                                 Year
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                          Before             After the Project



                                                       51

                                                              1 to 20          1          2        5        10         15        20

    Main Production                                                    -       3,644    3,644    3,644    29,244    93,244    157,244
       Present Value of Earnings (educated persons)                    -            -        -        -    9,600    33,600      57,600
       Present Value of Earnings (graduated persons)                   -            -        -        -   16,000    56,000      96,000
       School Incremental Revenues                                     -       3,644    3,644    3,644     3,644      3,644      3,644
    Production Cost
       Investment School Investments                                   -     262,500         -        -          -        -          -
       Operating                                               14,600          2,000    2,500    4,500     5,500      5,500      5,500
           Transport Costs                                      14,600              -        -        -          -        -          -
           O&M Costs                                                   -       2,000    2,500    4,500     5,500      5,500      5,500
       OUTFLOWS                                                 14,600       264,500    2,500    4,500     5,500      5,500      5,500
    Cash Flow                                                  -14,600      -260,856    1,144      -856   23,744    87,744    151,744

 IRR = 13.5%, NPV = 36,138.79
 \a Before, 400 of the 480 pupils would spend LE 1/day to attend to nearby village school. 80 pupils would not attend school. From
    those 16 would graduate and earn additional $500 p.a. than as illiterate. About 48 pupils (60%) would earn additional $100 p.a.



The typical school investment in SRDP was about LE 1.43 million (US$262,500) benefiting
about 480 pupils. Fees being paid per pupil were estimated at an average of LE 42 p.a. which
would cover about 65 percent of the estimated O&M costs. Transport avoided costs of 400 pupils
that were going to schools in neighboring villages (83 percent) was estimated at LE 1 per pupil
per day (US$14,600 per year). Of the additional 80 new pupils that the new school would induce
to be enrolled it was estimated that about 16 (20 percent) would continue until graduation, 48
would at least finish secondary school and 16 would not reach that level. The average salary
estimated for the three groups once they finish their education was the equivalent to US$750,
US$500 and US$250 p.a. respectively; based respectively on what an average professional
graduate, a full secondary school educated pupil and the uneducated pupil are currently obtaining
in Sohag region. The resulting ERR after correcting school investment and labor costs by 0.75
and 0.5 conversion factors respectively was 13.5.


Sanitation Subprojects are still not operational. However, once operating they will bring public
benefits (public health and improved water quality downstream) as well as private benefits
(household wellbeing). Pollutant concentration is expected to be considerably reduced,
producing incremental benefits and avoided damage costs when in-stream pollution from
untreated sewage is reduced. As public benefits it is expected that mortality and morbidity,
health/medicine costs and reduction in drinking water treatment costs will be reduced. Sanitation
would also bring private benefits constituted by the income increase resulting from avoided
illness and by sums that the benefited families would be willing to pay for solving their pre-
project wastewater problem. The current cost of vacuum sewage collection trucks is used as a
proxy for this willingness to pay approach. The following Table 3.4 summarizes the Cost Benefit
Analysis (CBA) for the typical sanitation scheme financed by SRDP.




                                                               52

 Annex Table 3.4. Village Sanitation Development Subproject                                       Year

 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                                     Before                   After the Project

                                                                                 1 to 20            1                  2          3 to 20

    Main Production                                                                       -                  -              -      36,452
        Working days (avoided illness)                                                    -                  -              -      23,074
        Value of sanitation (fees paid)                                                   -                  -              -      13,379
    Production Cost
        Investment Sanitation System                                                      -       1,179,200                 -            -
        Operating                                                                183,846            183,846          39,770        39,770
            Collection of Household Sewage                                       133,786            133,786                 -            -
            Medicines                                                             50,060             50,060          25,030        25,030
            O & M Costs                                                                   -                  -       14,740        14,740
        OUTFLOWS                                                                 183,846          1,363,046          39,770        39,770
    Cash Flow                                                                   -183,846         -1,363,046         -39,770         -3,318

 IRR = 13.6%, NPV = 105,345.57


The average investment for the 11 sanitation subprojects financed by SRDP (including about 20
percent for treatment in addition to the financed amount) was estimated in LE 7.8 million
(US$1.47 million) benefiting about 2,024 families. Fees to be paid by household with the water
fees were estimated at LE 36 per family p.a. which would cover 90 percent of the estimated
O&M costs (equivalent to 1 percent of investment costs). Avoided cost of vacuum trucks for
collecting waste from household septic tanks was estimated at LE 30 per family per month; and
avoided illness and working days lost was estimated at 12 days per family p.a. and LE 25 of
medical costs and medicines per family p.a. The resulting ERR after correcting investment and
labor costs by 0.8 and 0.5 conversion factors respectively was 13.6 percent.

Roads. The project has financed 124 subprojects involving mainly pavement of 478 km of roads
with a total cost of LE 50.3 millions (17.9 percent of the amount invested under the infrastructure
component). On average, each subproject paved 3.85 km with a cost for the project of
US$74,600 per scheme. Table 3.3 show the case of a 7 km road with a cost of US$142,000. It
was found in the field that the value of adjacent land has increased after the road was paved by
around 30 percent from about LE 10.5 to 13.7 million, values that can be considered as a proxy
of the net present value (NPV) of the benefits assigned by beneficiaries to their land (this proxy
summarized benefits including increased accessibility of the road, time saved by villagers, which
according to the Final Survey averages 28.4 minutes per day per family). As maintenance costs
of the new paved road, it was assumed they would be US$2,000 p.a., about 1.5 percent of the
invested value. The resulting ERR after correcting investments and labor costs by 0.85 and 0.5
respectively was estimated at 21.9 percent as can be seen in the Annex Table 3.5.

 Annex Table 3.5 Village Road Pavement Subproject                                          Year

 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                           Before                                After With Project
                                                                       1 to 20              1                 2              3 to 20

    Main Production Value of Land & Houses                             1,938,000                   -      2,520,000                     -
        Investment Road Pavement                                                  -        120,700                    -                 -
        Operating O&M Costs                                                       -                -            2,000             2,000
        OUTFLOWS                                                                  -        120,700              2,000             2,000
    Cash Flow                                                          1,938,000          -120,700        2,518,000              -2,000

 IRR = 21.9%, NPV = 157,650.40
 \a Value of land and properties before and after the pavement of the village road are taken as proxy indicator of the benefits as their
 market values are supposed to reflect the present value of net benefits of these assets.

Water Supply Subprojects: SRDP has financed 98 water supply schemes costing LE 31 million
and representing 10.9 percent of the component's total cost (excluding beneficiaries'
contribution in connecting their households to the system). The typical potable water supply
project had a cost of LE 365,000 (US$67,200) including 15% for household connection covering



                                                                          53

300 family beneficiaries. Before the project unsafe water was obtained from shallow household
wells. Investment per family was US$65. Water fees are US$8.90 per family p.a. based on water
charges of LE 0.23 per m and consumption of 10 ­ 20 m per household per month. According
                                    3                                           3


to beneficiaries, the new system has reduced working days lost for waterborne diseases by 18
days per family p.a. In addition, according to the Final Survey, each benefited family saves about
almost 35 minutes of women's time per day from collecting water for family needs. The
resulting ERR was estimated at 26.3 percent after adjusting to reflect economic values (0.85 for
investments and 0.5 for labor). The Annex Table 3.6 shows the values involved in this typical
study case.


 Annex Table 3.6 Water Supply Projects Subproject Model                                               Year
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                                              Before      After With Project

                                                                                          1 to 20        1       2 to 20

     Main Production                                                                             -            -    7,800
        Working days (avoided illness)                                                           -            -    5,130
        Value of water supply (fees paid)                                                        -            -    2,670
     Production Cost
        Investment Improvement of Potable Water System                                           -       67,200         -
        Operating Medicines                                                                  5,300       5,300     2,650
                    O&M Costs                                                                    -        1,340    1,340
                    Labor (saving time for getting water)                                    7,200
     Sub-total Operating Costs                                                             12,500         6,640    3,990
     OUTFLOWS                                                                              12,500        73,840    3,990
     Cash Flow                                                                            -12,500       -72,500    3,810

 IRR = 26.3%, NPV = 52,496.27
 \a Investment benefits 300 families and includes LE 350 ($64) per family Benefits include 18 avoided days of
 illness per family and 50 LE of medicine/attention costs Water fees of 48 LE/family p.a. used as proxy value


Youth Center Subprojects: SRDP financed the construction of 27 youth centers costing LE 7.8
million and representing 2.6 percent of the component's total cost. The typical center had a cost
of LE 289,000 (US$53,100). In addition, furnishing these facilities by the Ministry of Youth with
furniture, equipment, computers, women's room equipment, sports equipment, lighting, library
books, etc.), increased the average investment costs to US$120,000. Benefited communities have
not contributed to the investment cost. Joining and membership fees are LE 6 and LE 2 p.a. and
the average membership per center are about 500 youths. Fees for the use of facilities (sports
field, table tennis, and computers) and renting for parties and weddings generates an income of
about US$8,000 p.a. It was also estimated the increased earnings to be obtained by the crafts
training activities for about 10 trainees p.a. in about LE 100 per month. The O&M of the center
were estimated in US$2,700 p.a. The resulting ERR after adjusting to reflect economic values
(0.75 for investments and 0.5 for labor) was estimated at 14.9 percent. The Annex Table 3.7
shows the values involved in the case study representing youth centers.




                                                                 54

 Annex Table 3.7 Youth Center Subproject                                   Year
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                 Before                       After With Project
                                                             1 to 20         1          2          5      10 to 20

     Main Production                                                 -           -     7,200    16,250      24,250
        Increased Earnings (Trained persons)                         -           -     2,000     8,000      16,000
        Membership & Joining Fees                                    -           -       200       250         250
        Use of Facilities                                            -           -     5,000     8,000       8,000
     Production Cost
        Investment Youth Center Investments                          -      90,000         -          -           -
        Operating O & M (including salaries)                         -       2,000     2,300     2,700       2,700
     Sub-Total Production Cost                                       -      92,000     2,300     2,700       2,700
        OUTFLOWS                                                     -      92,000     2,300     2,700       2,700
     Cash Flow                                                       -     -92,000     4,900    13,550      21,550

 IRR = 14.9%, NPV = 19,299.67
 \a Benefits include 500 joining (LE 6) and membership (LE 2 p.a.) fees per Center. Also fees paid for the use
  of facilities (football, basketball, computers & wedding).10 trainees p.a. would earn about $200 more p.a.


Social Centers Subprojects: The infrastructure component financed the construction of 15
social centers costing LE 6.1 million and representing 2 percent of the component's investment.
The typical center had a cost of LE 406,700 (US$74,750). In addition, furnishing these facilities
by the Ministry of Social Affairs with furniture, equipment, computers, training room, nursery,
library, etc.), increased the average investment costs to US$90,000. Benefited communities have
contributed in some cases with the land to accommodate the center. Fees for the use of facilities
(nursery, computers and literacy classes) generates an income of about US$6,000 p.a. It was also
estimated the increased earnings to be obtained by the crafts training activities for about 20
women p.a. is about US$250 p.a. The O&M of the center were estimated as US$15,000 p.a. The
resulting ERR after adjusting to reflect economic values (0.75 for investments and 0.5 for labor)
was estimated at 14.3 percent. Annex Table 3.8 shows the values involved in the case study
representing social centers.


 Annex Table 3.8 Social Center Subproject Model                                    Year
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                         Before                    After With Project
                                                                     1 to 20         1           2            5           10 to 20
     Main Production
        Present Value of Earnings (Skilled persons)                          -            -      4,500      18,000          36,000
        Use of Facilities                                                    -            -      3,000        6,000          6,000
     Sub-total Main Production                                               -            -      7,500      24,000          42,000
     Production Cost
        Investment Social Center Investment                                  -       67,500           -            -              -
        Operating O&M (including salaries)                                   -       15,000     15,000      15,000          15,000
     Sub-Total Production Cost                                               -       82,500     15,000      15,000          15,000
        OUTFLOWS                                                             -       82,500     15,000      15,000          15,000
     Cash Flow                                                               -      -82,500     -7,500        9,000         27,000

 IRR = 14.3%, NPV = 17,885.81
 \a Benefits include charges for nursery (75 children), literacy (50 adults) and carpet manufacturing classes (20 girls) / Center.
 20 girls trained p.a. would earn about $250 more p.a. manufacturing carpets and other items as result of skills develop


Veterinarian Centers: About 1 percent of the village infrastructure component funds was used
to build 13 Veterinarian Units (VU) costing LE 2.9 million (US$533,000). Each unit had an
average cost for the project of US$41,000. With furnishing the average cost was around
US$60,000. The VU is operated by a Veterinarian and an Assistant and they treat about 500
animals 3 times each p.a. For the service, farmers pay about LE 10 per visit resulting in an
income of about US$2,400 p.a. which covers about 85 percent of the VU O&M costs. As a result
of the adequate treatment (vaccination, artificial insemination, etc.) cows and buffalos increase


                                                                   55

their production of milk from 500 to 800 liters p.a. and their calf sales from 1 traditional calf
every 2 years to 3 improved calves every five years. For the estimation of benefits it was
assumed that 400 equivalent mature animals are treated, allowing farmers to increase their farm
net income p.a. from US$680 to US$1,020 (50 percent). Annex Table 3.9 show the aggregate
benefits considering the farming activities of about 400 beneficiaries of the VU services, after
correcting financial prices to economic values using 0.75 and 0.5 as conversion factors for the
VU investment and labor costs respectively. The resulting ERR was estimated at 36.7 percent.


 Annex Table 3.9 Veterinarian Unit Subproject                                                     Year
 ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$) /a                                  Before                       After With Project
                                                              1 to 20         1          2           3         4       5 to 20

    Main Production (400 farmers)                              476,693     478,973   478,973    492,673     512,373   518,373
       Agricultural Products                                   401,693     401,693   401,693    401,693     401,693   401,693
       Milk                                                     40,000      40,000    40,000      46,000     58,000    64,000
       Traditional Calf                                         35,000      35,000    35,000      17,500           -         -
       Improved Calf                                                   -         -          -     25,200     50,400    50,400
       Vet Unit Fees                                                   -     2,280     2,280        2,280      2,280     2,280
    On-Farm Use Agricultural Products                           24,000      24,000    26,000      29,000     30,000    30,000
    Net Value Of Production                                    452,693     454,973   452,973    463,673     482,373   488,373
    Production Cost
       Investment Veterinarian Units                                   -    45,000          -           -          -         -
       Operating
          Purchased Inputs                                     101,680     104,380   104,980    105,580     105,580   105,580
              Inputs                                           100,480     100,480   100,480    100,480     100,480   100,480
              Vet Costs paid by beneficiaries                     1,200      1,200     1,800        2,400      2,400     2,400
              Vet & Assistant Costs                                    -     1,500     1,500        1,500      1,500     1,500
              Medicines                                                -     1,200     1,200        1,200      1,200     1,200
          Labor                                                 98,808      98,808    98,808      98,808     98,808    98,808
       Sub-total Operating Costs                               200,488     203,188   203,788    204,388     204,388   204,388
       OUTFLOWS                                                200,488     248,188   203,788    204,388     204,388   204,388
    Cash Flow                                                  252,205     206,785   249,185    259,285     277,985   283,985

 IRR = 36.7%, NPV = 119,313.92
 \a The Vet Unit assists 400 cow-equivalent animals contributing to an increased production of milk (60%), calves (44%)
  through proper treatment (vaccination, AI, etc.) Salaries of Vet and one assistant amounts LE 350 each/month. Benefits to
  Farmer's results in 50 percent net income increase.


Overall Economic Analysis: On the basis that the infrastructure investments described above
represent 86 percent of the village infrastructure component investments and the subprojects
financed for milk and animal production represent about 85 percent of the micro-credit
component investments, the overall ERR of SRDP (including all costs incurred under the
institutional strengthening component) was estimated at 14.9 percent and the NPV at US$6.2
million (Annex Table 3.10).




                                                               56

                                              Annex Table 3.10 Project Summary
                                              ECONOMIC BUDGET (In US$ '000)

                                       Before                                         Year
                                       Project                                  After the Project
                                       1 to 20   1      2      3         4        5           6       7      8     15

Main Production                         7,017  7,017  7,013   7,051     8,162    9,691      11,712  14,016 15,068 17,932
Production Cost                         6,424  6,424  6,426  11,212    17,752   22,009      22,405  13,052 5,840  5,946
Investment
   Road Pavement                             -     -      -   2,414     2,414    2,414       2,414     483      -      -
   Improvement of Potable Water
   System                                    -     -      -     672     2,016    2,016          672    672      -      -
   Sanitation System                         -     -      -       -     2,358    3,538       4,717  2,358       -      -
   School Investments                        -     -      -   1,313     2,625    5,250       5,250     263      -      -
   Veterinarian Units                        -     -      -     90         180      180         135      -      -      -
   Youth Center Investments                  -     -      -     90         270      900         900    270      -      -
   Social Center Investment                  -     -      -     203        270      338         203      -      -      -
   Cow/Buffalo (Micro-credit loans)          -     -      -       -     1,000    1,000       2,000  2,900       -      -
Sub-total Investment Costs                   -     -      -   4,781    11,133   15,635      16,290  6,946       -      -
Operating                               4,893  4,893  4,894   4,900     4,997     4,663      4,223  3,954  3,687   3,794
   Labor                                2,180  2,180  2,180   2,108     1,982    1,856       1,964  2,153  2,153  2,153
Sub-total Operating Costs               6,424  6,424  6,426   6,431     6,618    6,374       6,114  6,106  5,840  5,946
Institutional Strengthening & Training       -   800    800     800        800      800         800    800   800       -
OUTFLOWS                                7,072  7,872  7,874  12,588    18,912   22,953      23,277  13,852 6,640   5,946
Cash Flow                                  -56  -856  -861   -5,538    -10,750  -13,263     -11,564    164 8,428  11,986

IRR = 14.9%, NPV = 6,213.13


      Cost Effectiveness Analysis
      For subprojects with non-monetary benefits or for small subprojects valued at less than
      US$250,000 the PAD stipulates that they should be assessed on the basis of their cost
      effectiveness. The PAD does not identify specific cost effectiveness values (cost per unit or cost
      per beneficiary), but suggests that these should be kept within sub-sector norms and be
      determined on the basis of the first year investment program and the experience of similar
      projects (in particular those adopted by the Social Fund for Development). In reality these
      indicators were not explicitly used, although they may have played a part in project analysis in
      ranking options. On the basis of the completed subprojects the average values per beneficiary are
      as follows:
           ·    Water Supply                       EP 17.0
           ·    Irrigation                         EP 27.76
           ·    Roads                              EP 26.0
           ·    Sanitation                         EP 545.0
           ·    Post Office                        EP 40.0
           ·    Veterinary Units                   EP 15.0
           ·    Social Centers                     EP 76.0
           ·    Schools                            EP 251.0
           ·    Youth Centers                      EP 63.0
           ·    These average costs were considered by the supervisory missions to be low and
                acceptable.
      Health Centers           EP 158.0




                                                            57

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Bachir Souhlal              Sr. Agriculturist                      MNSRE Task Manager
Jean-François Barres        Principal Agricultural Economist       MNSRE Team Leader
                            Principal Natural Resources
Marjory-Anne Bromhead                                              MNSRE Natural Resources
                            Management Economist
Usaid El-Habali             Senior Irrigation Engineer             MNSRE Irrigation
Rouchdy Saleh Hassan        Natural Resources Specialist           MNCEG Natural Resources
Matthias Schlund            Agricultural Economist                 MNSRE Agriculture
Nirmala Reddy               Consultant, Banking Sector             MNSRE Banking
Ayman El Guindy             Consultant, Rural Development          MNSRE Rural Development
Elena Volpi                 Consultant, Sociologist                MNSRE Social
Takek Salim                 Consultant, Water and Sanitation       MNSRE Water and Sanitation
Abdalla Rahman              Project Controller                      IFAD

Supervision/ICR
Ahmed Shawky M. Abdell
                            Sr. Water Resources Specialist               Water Resources
Ghany
Mohamed Yahia Ahmed Said                                                 Financial
                            Financial Management Specialist        MNAFM
Abd El Karim                                                             Management
Tara Al Kadi                Consultant
Christine F. Allan          Operations Analyst                     SARDE Operational Support
Abduljabbar Hasan Al Qathab Sr Procurement Spec.                   MNAPR Procurement
                                                                         Senior Social
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour     Lead Social Development Specialist    AFTCS
                                                                         Scientist
Adel F. Bichara             Sr. Irrigation Specialist, Consultant  MNSSD Infrastructure
                                                                         Administrative
Conchita Castillo           Senior Executive Assistant
                                                                         Support
                                                                         Administrative
Maya El-Azzazi              Program Assistant                      MNSSD
                                                                         Support
Hani Abdel-Kader El Sadani
                            Senior Water Resources Engineer              Infrastructure
Salem
Karim Kamil Fahim           Auditor                                IADDR Auditor
Mahmoud Gamal El Din        Sr Operations Off.                     MNSHD Operational Support
Guzman P. Garcia-Rivero     Consultant
Nadia F-Z Gouhier           Procurement Analyst                    MNSRE Procurement
Maiada Mahmoud Abdel Fatt
                            Consultant                                   Operational Support
Kassem
Badr Kamel                  Sr Procurement Spec.                   MNAPR Procurement
Nehad Morsi Kamel           Consultant                             MNSHD
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd     Rural Finance Adviser                  ARD   Rural Finance
                                                                         Monitoring and
Andrea Liverani             Social Development Spec.               MNSSD
                                                                         Evaluation
                                                                         Administrative
Enas Shaaban Mahmoud        Team Assistant                         MNC03
                                                                         Support
                                                                         Financial
Josephine Masanque          Sr Financial Management Specialist     MNAFM
                                                                         Management



                                               58

                                                                          TTL and Social
M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie Oppong Senior Social Development Specialist  MNSSD
                                                                          Development
Pierre Rondot               Sr Sector Economist                   MNSSD Agriculture
Rouchdy Saleh Hassan        Technical Specialist
Salimah Haiderali Samji     Consultant                            SASDN
Elizabeth Sherwood          Financial Analyst                             Rural Credit
                                                                          TTL and Principal
Trayambkeshwar P. N. Sinha  Lead Operations Officer               MNSSD
                                                                          Operations Officer
                                                                          TTL, Environment
Ayat Soliman                Sr Environmental Spec.                MNSSD
                                                                          and M&E
                                                                          TTL and Social
Bachir Souhlal              Lead Social Development Specialist    MNSSD
                                                                          Development
                                                                          Financial
Hisham Ahmed Waly           Sr. Financial Management Specialist  MNAFM
                                                                          Management


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                       39.10
  FY96                                                                     102.33
  FY97                                                                       65.58
  FY98                                                                       55.63
  FY99                                                                        6.83
  FY00                                                                        3.80
  FY01                                                                        6.65
  FY02                                                                        0.00
  FY03                                                                        8.00
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00

                           Total:                                          287.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                                        0.00
  FY96                                                                        0.00
  FY97                                                                        0.00
  FY98                                                                        0.75
  FY99                                                                       24.27
  FY00                                           8                           29.31
  FY01                                          30                           87.79
  FY02                                          20                           77.50
  FY03                                          25                           85.56
  FY04                                          24                           90.63
  FY05                                          27                           43.64
  FY06                                          24                           57.28
  FY07                                          31                         151.74
  FY08                                          18                           78.59

                           Total:             207                          727.06



                                              59

                               Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A final survey has been carried by the project TAS M&E team in the eleven districts of the
Sohag Governorate where SRPD sub projects were implemented. They included the 51 Local
Units (LUs) covered by the project. A random sample of 24 LUs representing 47 percent of the
total was selected and nine sectors of infrastructure component sub projects were investigated:
water supply, irrigation including bridges and canals covering, road pavement, veterinary units
(VU), post offices, schools, youth and social centers. A random sample of 1,261 beneficiaries
from 24 sub projects, representing 5.7 percent of the total covered by the infrastructure
component was selected. Two sectors (Sanitation and Health) were excluded from the sample
because they were still not operative.

Nine questionnaires have been prepared for data collection - one per type of sub project. The
questionnaires were tested in three villages for modification. Each questionnaire consisted of
three main parts: (i) personal characteristics of sample individuals; (ii) qualitative indicators; and
(iii) quantitative indicators of the impact according to beneficiaries' perceptions. Data were
collected according to weekly schedules under the direct supervision of the social team. Field
data collection was completed in two months (March and April 2008). Then data was tabulated
and edited by using the statistical software Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS)
version 14.0. Frequencies, percentages, and relative weights were used to analyze data
statistically and to present findings, level of improvement (before DQGafter) calculated as:

                                   H X 3 + M X 2 + L X1
                                 Total number responds x 3

Water Supply. Findings revealed that there is a significant improvement in the qualitative
indicators ranging from 5.6-30.4 percent. Data indicates that the improvement can be
summarized as follows:
                Pressure of drinking water in the pipes.                     (30.4%)
                Access to drinking water in upper houses.                    (25.0%)
                Quality of taste, color and smell.                           (21.0%)
                Access to safe sources of water                              (18.9%)
                Spread of intestinal diseases.                                 (9.0%)
                Spread of skin diseases.                                       (5.6%)
There is also a significant improvement in the quantitative indicators which ranges between 75.2
to 96.3 percent, except the indicator of the average cost of accessing to clean water (LE/month)
as beneficiaries give no value to their time. The average cost of obtaining clean water was
reported as increasing by 2.3 LE per month. The average time needed to get clean water was
reduced by 10.6 minutes and the average distance was decreased by 89 meters.

Bridge Projects: Results indicate that projects improvement average 29.8 percent from
beneficiaries' perception. There is a significant improvement in all qualitative indicators ranging
from 16.1 - 42.2 percent. Improvements cover the following aspects:
        Connection between houses, farms, etc                                (39.6%)
        Using another bridges away from there villages.                      (42.2%)
        Delaying emergency and ambulance services.                           (36.0%)
        Using dangerous means for crossing over (trunks)                     (33.5%)
        Civil activities in village.                                         ~(22.3%)
        Social relations within and with other villages.                     (19.2%)



                                                  60

Bridges effect on employment chances and economic activities for villagers. There is also a
significant improvement in the quantitative indicators ranging between 21.6 to 69.8 percent. The
average distance to the nearest bridge was decreased by 442 meters and the estimated time to
arrive home was decreased by 9.9 minutes. Transportation expense was decreased by 0.016 LE.

Canal Covering: These projects show an average improvement valued of 44.5 percent as
follows:
             Spread of bad odor and smell of pollutants on banks of canals.        (59.1%)
             Spread of mosquitoes and flies, insects and weeds harmful.            (56.6%)
             Clogging waterway solid waste and dead animals                        (54.7%)
             Road on both sides of the canal                                       (50.9%)
             Landscape and aesthetic appearance                                    (44.7%)
             Bathing and washing clothes, utensils and animals in canals           (35.9%)
             Spread of diseases which cause pollution of water canal               (33.0%)
             Wastage of water used in irrigation and agriculture                   (21.0%)

There is also a significant improvement in quantitative indicators ranging between 41.2 to 120.0
percent. The covering area on both sides of the canal was increased by 7.8 meters and the time
required for access to the houses of the village residents was decreased by 5.6 minutes.

Road Pavement Projects: Perception improvements were valued at 34.7 percent and ranged
from 0.5-59.3 percent:
        Dust and polluted air on roads.                                     (59.3%)
        Roads blocks affecting circulation.                                 (54.2%)
        Difficulties for vans and equipments and high costs of O&M.         (49.7%)
        Transportation of crops and goods.                                  (42.3%)
        Difficulty to accessing work and schools.                           (39.2%)
        Connectivity between villages.                                      (16.4%)
        Labor markets improvements and commercial process.                  (15.9%)
        Cars and vehicles accidents.                                        (0.5%)
There is a significant improvement in the quantitative indicators ranging from 53.4 to 56.6
percent. The average of time required for arriving home was decreased by 14.2 minutes and the
average of costs of transportation vans and was decreased by 71.4 LE per month

Veterinary Units Projects: VU projects show an average improvement valued of 33.7 percent:
        Bad habits of the people of treating animals                        (45.3%)
        The problems of illness and death of animals in village.            (40.1%)
        Care livestock and livestock production in village.                 (38.5%)
        Raising awareness among parents and care for animals                (38.4%)
        Tamed the auspices of wealth and fortify                            (33.7%)
        Epidemiological devastating livestock                               (31.2%)
        Common diseases between humans and animals                          (9.00%)

There are significant improvement in quantitative indicators (41.1 to 82.9 percent): the distance
to the nearest VU was decreased by 1,468 meters and the cost of transporting cattle to the nearest
unit was decreased by 10.2 LE. Also, the cost of calling a vet was decreased by 10 LE and the
time to reach the nearest VU was decreased by 23.6 minutes.




                                                 61

Post Offices (PO): Average improvement was valued at 33.9 percent ranging from 30.3-39.3
percent:
       Congested post offices pressuring citizens                           (39.3%)
       Possibility of reaching PO at near villages.                         (36.3%)
       Old people transportation for wages.                                 (32.5%)
       Time/effort required to obtain the services of mail                  (31.2%)
Average improvement in the quantitative indicators ranges between 77.8 to 100.0%: the distance
to the nearest PO was decreased by 2,665 meters, the average cost for accessing it was decreased
by 0.5 LE while the time required to reach a PO was decreased by 19.4 minutes and the time
spent at the PO was decreased by 20 minutes.

Schools: Schools projects showed an improvement valued by 32.4 percent ranging from 11.5-
40.5 percent:
       Class capacity and the level of education.                           (40.5%)
       Spaces for activities.                                               (40.0%)
       Availability of levels of education for villagers.                   (39.7%)
       Quality of the educational and understanding.                        (34.4%)
       Education among villagers.                                           (32.5%)
       Time and efforts spent for reaching schools.                         (31.0%)
       Absentees and students irregularity.                                 (29.4%)
       Risks of students'arriving to school.                                (11.5%)

Quantitative indicators improvements range between 20.3 to 100.0 percent: the average time for
going to school was decreased by 7 minutes and the average capacity per classroom was
decreased by 10.5 students. Average distance to school was decreased by 256 meters and the
students'regularity at school was increased by 21.2 percent and 27.5 percent for male and female
respectively. The daily school shifts was decreased by 0.4 and the transportation costs reduced
by 0.03 LE daily.

Youth Centers: These projects showed an improvement valued at 18.5 percent:
       Awareness programs and education problems of society.                (26.1%)
       Social relations among the Youth and neighboring villages.           (23.2%)
       Bad behavior of youngsters with neighboring villages.                (20.3%)
       Women's participation in activities and competitions.                (12.7%)
Time required to reach the nearest youth center was decreased by 16 minutes and the distance
was decreased by 1,130. Average cost of accessing the nearest center was decreased by 1.08 LE
and the number of sports and cultural activities available was increased by 1 activity per month
as well as the number of recreational trips for young people was increased by 1.1 trips per year.

Social Centers: These projects show 27.8 percent improved perceptions from beneficiaries
ranging from 0.7-37.7 percent as follows:
       Women awareness and education programs                               (37.7%)
       Women's participation in activities through social centers           (37.4%)
       Employment opportunities for village girls                           (35.9%)
       Relations with neighboring villages                                  (27.5%)
A significant improvement was recorded in quantitative indicator: the time required for access to
social centers was decreased by 15 minutes and the distance decreased by 3,627 meters while the




                                                 62

cost to access to the nearest center was decreased by 0.39 LE. The number of social activities
available in the village was increased by 3 activities per month.

Main Conclusions

The following conclusions can be extracted based on the findings of the final survey of the
impact of SRDP:

1. The samples selected for the final survey were highly representative considering gender,
educational levels, ages and job status which reflect results of the entire population.
2. All surveyed sub projects achieved significant improvements from the beneficiaries' point of
view. Results are consistent using qualitative and quantitative indicators.
3. Sub projects could be ordered according to the qualitative indicators as follows:


                      Sub project               Qualitative Improvement Percentage
          Water supply                         18.0%
          Irrigation (bridges)                 29.8%
          Irrigation (canals covering)         44.5%
          Road pavement                        34.7%
          Vet. Unities                         33.7%
          Post offices                         33.9%
          Schools                              32.4%
          Youth Centers                        18.5%
          Social centers                       27.8%
          Average                              30.4%


4. The average value of improvement achieved by the sub projects was 30.4%.
5. The quantitative indicators including time saving, money saving, distance, etc confirm a high
level of improvement attained by the infrastructure component.
6. The same final survey should be done in 5 years to assess the sustainability of improvements
according to the perceptions of beneficiaries in rural Sohag Governorate.




                                                 63

                       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
A stakeholder workshop was held in Sohag (April 1 2008) attended by some 87 participants (see
Annex Table 6.1)., excluding TAS staff members and WB/IFAD/FAO mission members. The
workshop involved all the project stakeholders, including representatives of BDAC, LDF,
Governorate officials, representatives of line ministries, local unit heads, NGO representatives,
beneficiaries and contractors. The workshop's purpose was to generate lessons learned for
potential use in an Intensive Learning ICR.

Annex Table 6.1: List of Stakeholders/Participants at Lessons Learned Workshop
 Stakeholder/ Institution                             Number of participants (including no.
                                                                      female)
 Youth                                                                   4
 Caritas/NGO                                                             2
 Local Unit Credit Specialists                                           3
 Ministry of Roads                                                       2
 Ministry of Social Affairs                                              2
 Head of Local Units                                                     3
 Development Specialists ­ Local Units                                   3
 Local Unit Officials                                                    9
 Governorate Development Department                                    8 (2)
 Ministry of Housing                                                     2
 Education Authority                                                     3
 Ministry of Irrigation                                                4 (1)
 Community Development Associations                                     4(1)
 Beneficiaries of Training Awareness Program                           8 (8)
 PBDAC                                                                  7(1)
 Contractors                                                             4
 Governorate Officials (Procurement tendering)                          10
 Sub-project beneficiaries                                             9 (3)
 Total Number of Stakeholders                                           87


The workshop was initiated with a brief presentation of the project's objectives and outputs,
followed by opening remarks from the Secretary General of Sohag Governorate, who noted a
number of concerns, including: delays in receiving withdrawal applications, particularly from
IFAD; discrepancies and differences between World Bank Guidelines and Governorate
Guidelines with respect to procurement; problems in securing the 15 percent local contribution
of funds; the lengthy time required to process the LDF and BDAC loans; centralizing the lending
at the Governorate level; and the limited size of micro loans, which needed to be increased.


The workshop was organized into four stakeholder groups that reviewed a range of basic issues
related to their experiences in the implementation of the project. These discussions highlighted a
number of key issues, (typically what failed and what improvements were needed in any future
project), which are described below and are reflected in key lessons learned contained in Section
6 of the ICR.




                                                64

Village Infrastructure Component ­ Group 1

   1. Participants thought that the infrastructure prioritized and financed by the project was
       appropriate and matched their needs, but that standard infrastructure designs needed to be
       reviewed to ensure that they more closely match the community's needs; and
       consideration should be given to including equipment as part of the package of
       infrastructure works.

   2. Beneficiary income improvements were clearly linked to the availability of credit and
       quality of life to improved public services. However, the beneficiaries view the project's
       benefits as an integrated package that includes infrastructure, credit and training.
   3. Beneficiaries understood the benefits of maintaining the infrastructure investments
       financed by the project and believed that this might be sustained by voluntary
       contributions, but they also thought the initial outlay for this should have been included in
       the sub-project costs (as envisaged in the original project concept). .
   4. With regard to the extent the investments had an impact on the poorest in the community
       it was believed that they had benefited positively impacts from interventions that
       involved training and labour saving; but these benefits should not be explicitly reserved
       for only the poorest in the communities.
   5. The consensus view of the beneficiaries was that water supply and sanitation were the
       most important type of infrastructure provision, but that there was also a need to provide
       infrastructure that created job opportunities, which was not really included in the project
       (although existed in the project concept document).
   6. Concerns were expressed that project implementers needed stronger powers to resist
       political interference by local parliaments to mould the infrastructure interventions to
       match government targets and policies that were not necessarily the priorities of the
       communities.

   7. The beneficiaries believed that the infrastructure investments had positively favoured the
       more remote communities and this was not considered an issue.

   8. The project had had a direct impact on women's opportunities for income generation and
       all the beneficiaries had seen an increase in the influence that women had on decision-
       making, although this was still relatively low. The beneficiaries believed there was a
       direct linkage between the level of education of women and their expectations to
       influence decision-making processes.

Institutional Strengthening Component - Group 2

   1. Stakeholders thought the project had encouraged a considerable increase in participation
       in selecting priorities. However, there was a perception that participation in village
       committee was higher and more meaningful in Sohag than in other surrounding
       governorate (Qena and Assiut were explicitly mentioned as governorates where people
       were less involved in decision making at village level). Other points raised on
       participation were:

       ·   Most problems are now identified first at community level;

       ·   The number of people in committees needed to be increased (beyond 40);

       ·   While participation is now key to identify priorities, participatory monitoring of
           investments and O&M is not widespread




                                                65

   ·   There was a need more training in participatory monitoring, and to encourage village
       committees to discuss these aspects;

   ·   LUs needed to be allocated budget to organize meetings (with incentives for
       organizers and participants);

   ·   There was a need to increase the number of awareness raising campaigns and to
       enhance CDA involvement by making them partners in project operation (i.e. in
       running a social center);

   ·   There was a need to update/review the membership of SHROUK committees
       regularly, as generally 50% of members are not very active, whilst active people
       cannot find a place given that seats are limited; and

   ·   There is little appetite for "electing" SHROUK members, which at the moment are
       chosen by the Local Unit head.

2. Participants in reviewing the sustainability of the participation process after the project
   completion believed that it is now an acquired practice that would last well beyond the
   life of the project and that in future decisions on funding from all sources would all
   include an element of participation.

3. Participants believed that the project had changed the gender dimension of village
   participation drastically and that although previously there used to be no women in the
   meetings, now at least 50% are usually women. Participants (including men) recognized
   that often it was the women that knew priorities better.

4. On whether the project had enhanced NGOs/private sector participation in SHROUK
   activities the participants confirmed that the private sector had not been involved in
   village committees, but that the project has increased the presence of CDAs in setting
   priorities.

5. The project had not significantly enhanced participation of isolated hamlets in SHROUK,
   as isolated hamlets tended to be less involved in village committees because their full
   participation was difficult and costly to encourage and organize. Material incentives were
   needed to attract people from the hamlets and in order send LU staff there. Future
   projects should consider a budget provision for this purpose. As an aside participants
   believed that local units still sometimes think they know best.

6. On the issue of whether of public projects were adequately staffed by line ministries in
   charge participants saw a number of gaps: There were not enough teachers and too many
   teachers had temporary contracts. There was also not enough filled clerical position in
   schools and the distribution of teachers tended penalizes isolated hamlets. The possible
   solution to this would be for communities to contribute to pay teachers' salaries. Youth
   centers were moderately well staffed, but social centers were short of staff, which could
   only be remedied by CDAs.

7. Training was generally appreciated throughout the sectors, with concrete benefits
   identified by trainees. However, it was noted that trainees often tend to leave the
   positions they received the training for. Possible improvements suggested by participants
   included: increasing the number of training days/trainings, increase the number of
   trainees, providing updates, undertaking training of trainers to increase sustainability and
   long lasting results, providing more practical training and increasing the availability of
   programs related to teenagers.



                                            66

     8. On the provision of goods provided by the project (transport, construction equipment,
          office and computer equipment) participants considered that this had an impact and
          improved the way local units operated and were able to undertake maintenance using LU
          service funds.

     9. On the benefits of awareness raising campaigns participants thought that more campaign
          were needed for targeting remote villages and that the awareness raising documentation
          should be left behind as hard copies.

Credit Component - Group 3

Even though only US$5 million out of the budgeted amount of US$26.7 million for the
component was actually used38, there was a general consensus about the improvements
introduced by the SRDP, resulting in increased access to credit for the most disadvantaged rural
communities. Some of the findings from which lessons learned could be derived, are the
following::

     1. On the benefits of the access to LDF and BDAC credit the group concluded the
          following:
          ·    LDF waiting list for requesting micro-credit have been reduced as funding and access
               individual credit for the poor and women was improved substantially;
          ·    LDF time for micro-credit processing has been reduced considerably from more than
               a year to 5-7 months. However, this still needs to be further improved mainly by
               decentralizing LDF decisions from Cairo to Sohag;
          ·    Local Committees had been instrumental for activating LDF activities;
          ·    LDF and BDAC employees should have incentives for increasing productivity; and
          ·    Activities being financed by LDF and BDAC have widened and diversified from
               agriculture (before 100%) to include other sectors (now 50%).

     2. On the issue of conditions of the loans being acceptable there was a consensus view that
          the loan amounts needed to be increased from actual practice (LE 2,000 to LE 10,000 and
          more).

     3. Interest rates were considered as too high for the most of disadvantaged clients (13.5%
          for BDAC and 9% for LDC). Interest rates on micro-credit loans from BDAC and LDF
          should not be different under the same project funding.
     4. There has been a positive impact on women and the poor in communities as guaranties
          acceptable for BDAC have been extended to assets other than land, favoring especially
          women who are not allowed to own land.
     5. The scale of community Credit channeled through Banks and NGOs should be increased
          but could not be implemented under the SRDP because of legal requisites regarding
          sizeable guaranties for the Banks from the intermediary NGOs. The Central Bank is
          considering amendments to this requirement established by Law given the existing
          interest of Banks in working micro-credit lines through NGOs.
     6. Under the existing legal framework, funds for micro-credit to be offered through NGOs
          should be channeled through the Ministry of Social Solidarity in charge of supervision of
          NGOs which is allowed to offer acceptable guaranties to Banks.



38
  Only the Individual Micro Credit subcomponent was effectively implemented. The BDAC On-Farm Technology
Improvement and Rural-Based Investment (US$20 million), and the BDAC and LDF Community-Based Micro-Credit (US$2.7
million) lines of credit could not be instrumented.



                                                           67

  7. Alternative and successful micro-credit schemes with NGOs in Sohag (with Social
      Solidarity Fund, Egyptian Swiss Fund, the Development Social Fund and UNICEF) show
      good performance, extensive coverage and excellent levels of recovery rates (97-99
      percent).

  8. Additional training is needed for preparing requests and project formulation to be
      provided in Sohag, rather than in Cairo (LDF).

Technical Issues - Group 4.

  1. On the issue of whether the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) facilitate the
      bidding, the evaluation of bids and the contractual procedures the participants responses
      were: that the "one envelope" bidding procedure has greatly reduced the bidding
      evaluation time; the Banks reluctance to use a points system for evaluation of bids
      reduces the chances of a number of serious bidders; allowing bids to go ahead with only
      one bidder responding as per the Bank's regulation saved time otherwise bids would have
      to be canceled; and the SBD stipulation that agents are the only ones allowed to bid for
      goods contracts reduced the number of suppliers bidding for goods.

  2. On the differences between the Banks SBDs and the Egyptian Law 89 the participants
      believed (i) training of Egyptian personnel on Bank's SBDs would help iron out some of
      the differences; (ii) .guarantees should be in cash as well as by Bank guarantees (the
      World Bank SBD do not allow this); and (iii) the Bank's SBDs do not specifically
      stipulate that a representative of the Ministry of Finance should be a member of the bid
      evaluation committee - this is contrary to the Egyptian law.
  3. On the problems encountered before and after sub-projects execution the participants
      believed: (i) final designs and specifications of large sub-projects (e.g. sanitation)
      prepared by consultants should be reviewed by the line ministries engineers in order to
      ensure their accuracy; and (ii) it was believed that contractors who have been performing
      well with one ministry and not so well with another should not be prevented from bidding
      for contracts with the first ministry. The time elapsed between the completion of designs
      of a sub-project and completion of the bidding process sometimes results in problems
      with land expropriation/allocation. Therefore it was thought that the bidding process
      should not start before all the expropriation and land allocation issues are sorted out.

  4. The problems identified by the participants which could not be solved during the project,
      included: (i) Price escalation should be permitted in the bidding documents due to the
      sudden rises in the cost of steel and cement in Egypt; (ii) allowing different organizations
      to review contractors and suppliers invoices (Local Units, TAS and the Governorate
      Finance Unit) is time consuming - only one organization should have the full authority
      for reviewing the contractors/suppliers invoices and in paying them; and (iii) even very
      small deviations from the original quantities have to be reported in separate memos,
      which is time consuming and some leeway in the variations is needed. There were always
      long delays in paying the 15% counterparts funds to the contractors by the line ministries.
      As the payment of the remaining portion of the funds to the contractors (85%) is linked to
      the payment of the counterpart funds, it was proposed that the counterpart funds be
      deposited at the beginning of each fiscal year with the Governorate who in turn will be
      entrusted with the payment of those funds to the contractors. Additionally, sometimes
      there are difficulties in handing over the works to the owners due to lack of knowledge
      with the SBDs stipulations and specifications.

  5. Procedures for ensuring that adequate funds for O&M did not change under the project.
      The participants considered that the best way to tackle this in the future would be to (i)
      Allocate funds from IDA/IFAD credits to maintenance, (ii) Ensure the provision of 2-3


                                               68

years supply of spare parts, and (iii) have a covenant in the Credit Agreement. For
example, with the roads sector (which is the sector) that most suffers from non-allocation
of funds, a covenant should have been included to ensure that the income from the fuel
taxes and from the quarries taxes should be allocated for roads maintenance as stipulated
by the law.




                                       69

         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower's comments were requested and their response is as follows:




The following text was received from TAS and has been attached below (unedited).


                                           ICR Draft

                                      1. Project Description

A. Local Institutions Strengthening

This component would
 a. Strengthen the Govern rate's capacity to coordinate rural development in Sohag and support
     village participatory planning process, through training and technical assistance
 b. Strengthen the districts'capacity to support decentralization and participation at the village
     level, on technical, managerial, and financial matters.
 c.  Support Line Ministries involved in rural development in Sohag, to enable them to interact
     more efficiently in the village participatory processl
Project financing would include equipmentfland training and technical assistance

B. Village Infrastructure Component

This component would support Village Priority Development Plans identified and prepared
through a participatory process using the SHROUK methodology and co-financed by the Sohag
Villages, in interaction and with the support of the local administration and technical services.
Project's financial contribution would be matched with up front villagers' participation of about
~- percent in labor or cash or in kind. In particular, the project would support~
   a. Economic and municipal infrastructure (potable water supply, small irrigation and
       drainage systems, rehabilitation of rural roads, etc.); and
   b. Social infrastructure (youth centers, women's clubs, etc.

C. Rural Finance Component

This component would
   a. Finance rural credit for on-farm technology improvement and rural-based investment
       through a line of credit and institutional strengthening of the Sohag BDAC.



                                                 70

Promote micro-credit for income generation for the rural poor and women through lines of credit
to Sohag BDAC and LDF in Sohagl~for: (i) community-based micro-credit ;(ii) individual micro-
credit; and (iii institutional strengthening of LDF.




                                                 2. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

                                                   Institutional strengthening component

A. Progress of the Institutional Support Component:

                                                  Summary of Procurement of goods (June-08)
                                                                       Quantit
                                            Items                                        Cost (LE)     % of total
                                                                           y
                                            Articulated Wheel Grader       3           2,983,297.00     12.30%
                                            Vibratory Soil                 1            670,000.00      2.76%
          H
           eavy                             Big Loader                     1            775,000.00      3.20%
                                            Medium Loader                  3           1,845,000.00     7.61%
               E                            Backhoe Loader                10           3,450,000.00     14.22%
                quipm                       Garbage Collecting Car        18           3,040,200.00     12.53%
                                            Sewage Car                    17           2,582,310.00     10.65%
                     ents                   Microbus                       2            460,000.00      1.90%
                                            Single Cabin Vehicle          42           3,396,800.00     14.01%
                                            Duple Cabin Vehicle            2            166,800.00      0.69%
                                            Site Car                       3            787,000.00      3.24%
                                            Photo Copier                 100           1,528,179.80     6.30%
                                            Computer                     134           1,079,889.00     4.45%
                                            Printer                       89            244,880.00      1.01%
                         E
                          quipm             UPS stableizer                63             48,665.00      0.20%
                                            Scanner                        5             5,111.80       0.02%
                                            Fax                            6             17,950.00      0.07%
                               ents         Shredder                       1              795.00        0.00%
                                            Data Show                      5             35,700.00      0.15%
                                            Video Camera Digital           2             5,800.00       0.02%
                                            Plasma Screen                  2             86,000.00      0.35%
                                            Sports Equipments              3           1,044,512.50     4.31%
                                            Total                        512           24,253,890.10   100.00%


B. Training Monitoring:

Designing an evaluation form applied on trainees to evaluate the quality of training programs.
Many of training programs were held as a part of institutional strengthening to improve the
officials'performance at the level of Governorate, Line Ministries and also the community.
                                             Table showed the training programs achievements


                                   Type of training                          Courses        Trainees    Females
                                                                   Date
                                     Programs                                number        Numbers    NO         °
 Computer Training                                                2002           1             25     3          12
 General capacity building training
                                                                  2005         293            4206    456        8
 (NRC-IUS-CU-AU)



                                                                       71

  CDAs Capacity building training
                                                2005           3                60          24     40
  (PRA-Facilitation Skills-TNA)
  Awareness Seminars                            2005           30             1200          800    70
  Women Vocational Training                     2006           10              300          300   100
  Credit Specialists                            2007           45             1900          513    27
                      TOTAL                                   382              7691         2327  30.25
                     Total costs                                              474.000 USD


C. Women Self ­empowerment :

    - IDA Provide 25.000 IDs for rural poor women through CDA Provide 25.000 IDs for rural
        poor women through CDAs. With cooperation with National Council for Women.



                                      Infrastructure component:

A. In frame of Enhancement Community Participation as a objective:

Enhancement Participation meetings to identifying problems and ranking priorities

      Sohag Rural Development Project Conducted 51 meetings per year (on the local units
level) followed Shrouk Methodology in identifying problems and ranking priorities and focused
on encouraging women participation and developed Shrouk Methodology by dividing the
participants at the meetings of participation enhancement and using PRA tools such as (problems
tree, mapping, ven diagrams) in identifying problems and ranking priorities to raising up the
Sub-Projects annual plan.
   Figures showing the progress of women percentage in attending the needs assessment
                                                  meetings

                                                                                        25
                    25                                                       22.4


                    20

                                                                   14.4
                    15


                    10                                     7

                                                 4
                     5
                             0         0

                     0
                       2000/2001 2001/2002 2002/2003 2003/2004 2004/2005 2005/2006 2006/2007

                         First    Second    Third     Fourth     Fifth     Sixth   Expected




B. Social Monitoring Program :

    -  Completed surveys.
        Conducting pre & post surveys for social monitoring and assessment impact of projects,
        by using questionnaires and conducting Focus Group Discussions with community's
        representatives. Three surveys were completed (one pre and 2 post) the surveys also
        purposed to identifying the important problems after projects implementation and raising
        these problems to concerned authorities.

                                   Table showed the surveys data




                                                    72

                                                                                             Persons in
                                                                             Interviews
                                             Type of surveys       Date                       Focus D.      Total of members
                                                                                              Groups
                                               Pre Survey          2005           80             112                192
                                              Post 1 Survey        2006           51             66                 117
                                              Post 2 Survey        2007           70             69                 139
                                        Final impact survey        2008          1581             -                 1581
                                                      TOTAL                      1782            247                2029


C. Village infrastructure component (Till June 08):



                                                      Summary of village infrastructure component (June-08)


                                                                           Total
                                                                                         Actual       Total value of
                                                                          No of                                        % of
No.                                                  Sector                          Disbursement      contracting
                                                                           sub-                                        total
                                                                                          (LE)            (LE)
                                                                          Projects

                                              Providing Potable Water*      98        30,998,347.66   32,852,273.33    10.90%

                                              Sanitation                    11        57,946,802.50   73,437,518.58    24.37%
  1   Infrastructure                    R
                                         ural
                                              Irrigation **                 69        14,825,813.76   15,644,075.23     5.19%

                                              Rural Roods ***               124       50,326,704.71   53,800,345.87    17.85%

                                              Veterinary Centers            13         2,800,595.61    2,935,390.39     0.97%

                                              Post offices                  27         6,977,720.52    7,169,712.97     2.38%

                                              Schools                       56        80,292,643.96   83,080,465.59    27.57%
  2                 SocialInfrastructure      Youth Centers                 27         7,340,072.35    7,776,350.81     2.58%

                                              Social Centers                15         5,359,416.04    6,143,265.60     2.04%

                                              Health Units                   6        10,660,159.23   18,488,727.90     6.14%

                                                     Total                  446     267,528,276.34 301,328,126.27 100.00%

*  No 96 wells and 510 km of networks
** No 44 bridges & 8km of covered drains
*** 487 km




                                                                                  73

i) Achievement of PAD Key Performance Indicators:

                                                   Unit          PAD Targets:                     Actual
                                                         Baseline      mid     End of             End of

                                                                       Term    Project          Project
Development Objectives Indicators:
Rate of recovery of 0 & M for new                  %       50          75      100              42.74
infrastructure
Percentage of infrastructure benefiting            %       N/A         50      75               81.25
Isolated hamlets

Recovery rate of credit BDAC                       %        90         95       98              98.80

Recovery rate of credit LDF                        %        95         97       98              99.60

Output Indicators:
Participating LAUs                                 Number   30         51      51               51

Average beneficiaries participation in             %        N/A        15      20               1.41
Investment costs*

Women access to credit
· % of women among beneficiaries of LDF            %        10         25      50               53.10

  - As % of total number of loans
· % of women among beneficiaries of LDF            %                                            51.60

  - As % of total amount of loans
· % of women among beneficiaries of                 %       N/A        25      50               26.00

BDAC (micro-credit)

   - As % of total - number of loans I

· % of women among beneficiaries of                 %                                           22.70

  BDAC (micro-credit) -as % of total amount of loans                                              .
     Cash introduced as % water and road investments. Excluding the donation value of land, furniture,
     and equipment, etc.



ii) The efficacy of which the PDO have been achieved
     Compatible with the needs of the project's objectives and priorities of the country as they fits
with the development goals, specifically related to the improvement of quality of life in the
countryside and delivering services of clean drinking water and sanitation services and improve
health services, as well as poverty reduction, is a step to contribute to broadening the base of
education.
     The project contributed in raising the economic level of the poorer of the countryside through
the implementation of micro-loans for both young people and female headed house hold, which
contributed to reducing the unemployment rate.

iii) Project Sustainability
     The implementation of projects, operation and maintenance of all stakeholders as appropriate
to achieve continuity of access, for the periods beyond the life of the project, but that there were
problems facing the result of poor maintenance budgets allocated for maintenance operations to
the concerned directories.



                                                     74

                   3 - Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

       A brief explanation of any issues:

       Positive Sides

                1. Following the popular participatory approach in the selection of
                    implemented projects.
                2. Coordination between the directorates of services and project before and
                    during implementation of projects.
                3. Handling implemented Projects to the concerned authorities for the
                    operation.
                4. Linking the training to the credit component where the training program for
                    female headed house hold was implemented before the crediting process.

       Negative Sides

                5. The incompatibility between the bank's procedures and special items of the
                    Egyptian law concerned with tendering and awarding.
                6. Opposes regulations Development and Agricultural Credit Bank to lend to
                    NGOs.
                7. Determine the interest rates of loans based on the proportion of financial
                    benefits resulting force banks to raise interest rates.

                            4 ­ Bank and Borrower performance

  ·    Long time between sending requests for withdrawals and reimbursements to the special
       account what affect the disbursement of contractors'payments,
  ·    This phase was characterized by persistent follow-up, guidance and ongoing support
       through supervision missions, and on the other side policies of the bank's commitment to
       the project and attempt to reconcile the bank instructions executive and Egyptian law.
  ·    There was also continued involvement between the bank's management of the project at
       various stages and finally what has been implemented by the bank through a workshop in
       Cairo and another at the PMU in Sohag in order to prepare the team for the task of
       reporting the completion of the project

                             5- Institutional Development impact

The project has made the exploitation of resources available to him as much as possible what
was an impact in improving the final
Development rates in Egypt and seen as follows:
  a. With respect to identify and implement projects that meet the actual needs of society
       where the use of activating a participatory basis for the success of the development
       process and work to broaden the base of community participation to begin the process of
       development from the bottom up.
  b. Improve the performance of all employees in specific aspects of the development process
       starting by development of village officials and heads of local units through the
       Development Department in maintaining and ending by employees of                ministries
       concerned with development projects in Sohag, through their high degree of training and



                                                75

      seminars in their respective area of work and study in addition to the delivery Equipment
      and tools, thus ensuring better performance and to facilitate the work for the success of
      the development process.
  c. That the project would implement a large number of sub-projects has already met a key
      requirement of a clear priority and this is reflected in specific projects, drinking water
      supply as well as canals covering and all types of service projects related to improving
      the quality of life.
    As well as for credit component, which allowed a broad category of the rural community
         to improve the level of economic income, including have a great impact in this
         category given the opportunity to play its part in the development process in terms of
         burden and responsibilities as benefiting from outcomes of development successes.



                6- Lessons Learned and Implications for Future Projects

A. Institutional Strengthening Component

  x           i) Participatory
      The project contributed to a substantial increase in the number of subprojects, priorities
      have been selected by local units and the percentage of participatory of village
      committees in the governorate of Sohag came higher than other provinces surrounding
      governorates (Qena and Assiut) as stated that at these governorates their parents were less
  x   in decision-making at the village level.
      Most of the problems are now determined at the local communities'level with the active
  x   participation of all other levels.
      The participatory approach is now the used methodology to identify priorities and
  x   participate in the investments follow-up on a large scale.
      The village is in need to more awareness to enhance participation in the development
  x   process and encouraging village committees.
      Allocation of certain budgets is highly required for rural local units for organizing
  xx  meetings and seminars.
      Increasing the number of awareness campaigns.
      The Necessity of NGOs supporting and strengthen, by making partners in operating
      projects (such as the Department of Social Center).

              ii) Sustainability
  ·   Sohag rural development project was a cause of participatory increasing, and this
      participatory will help after the project in the viability and sustainability of implemented
      projects.
  ·   Discussions concerned with funding from all sources, increase the sustainability of
      implementation of these projects.

              iii) Gender
  ·   The project has changed the gender dimension of village participation drastically. Before
      there used to be no women in meetings, now there are usually 50% of women, sometimes
      more.
  ·   Participants (including men) recognized that often women know the priorities better.

              iv) Involvement of CDAS/private sector
  ·   Private sector is not involved in village committees.


                                                76

  ·  The project has increased the presence of CDAs in setting priorities;

              v) Isolated Hamlets
  ·  Isolated hamlets tend to be less involved in rural committees as participation is difficult
     and costly to encourage and organize. Materials and accommodations are needed to
     attract people from the hamlets;
  ·   Future projects should consider a budget line for this;
  ·  Local units still the best place & organizer for these meetings and committees.

              vi) Adequate staffing
  ·  Numbers of teachers are not enough.
  ·  Too many teachers with temporary contracts
  ·  Not enough clerical position in schools.
  ·  Unfair distribution of teachers in isolated hamlets.
  ·  Officials are not enough in Social centers, only CDAs can remedy to this.
  ·  Youth centers are moderately well staffed.

              vii) Training
  ·  Training generally increased throughout sectors, with identified benefits by trainees.
  ·  Problem: often trainees tend to leave training for Possible improvements include:
        a. Increase the number of training days.
        b. Large number of trainees
        c. Training for trainers to increase sustainability and long lasting results
        e. More practical training

            viii) Goods
  ·  As a result of the support and supply units of local goods, work is improved daily in those
     units.
  ·  For completion of the Operations and Maintenance are advised to use the services fund.

              ix) Awareness raising campaigns
  ·  More campaign needed targeting remote villages.
  ·  Documentation in hard copy should be left behind.
  ·  The rural woman needs to more meetings and more awareness.

B. The infrastructure components

  1. The level of infrastructure and models need to be reviewed to ensure that they conform
     more closely to the needs of society and should consider including equipment as part of a
     series of infrastructure works.
  2. Improving income is clearly linked to improving the standard of living and public service
     projects, as beneficiaries refer to the advantages as an integrated project includes
     infrastructure projects, loans and training.
  3. The poorest communities are the most benefit from the positive effects of the project,
     especially from interventions involving the provision of training and employment
     opportunities, but these benefits should not be only for the poorest people in society.
  4. Agreed in opinion that the supply of clean water and sanitation services are the most
     important sectors of infrastructure to the beneficiaries, but there is also a need to provide
     the infrastructure that enable job opportunities, which are not included with the project.
     And that the project needs stronger authorities to resist political interference by local



                                                77

     councils to meet with local government interventions, goals and policies that are not
     necessarily be one of the priorities of local communities.
  5. The project implementation and specially the infrastructure subprojects have had a direct
     impact on opportunities for women to generate income and all beneficiaries have noticed
     an increase in the influence of women in decision-making process, although this is still
     relatively low. It is believed the beneficiaries there was a direct link between the level of
     women's education and their expectations to influence decision-making processes.
  6. The absence of monitoring and evaluation unit from the start of the project and the
     absence of baseline study, which had a negative impact and the difficulty in collecting
     data and indicators as well as to allocate budgets to conduct social surveys and case
     studies and workshops.

C. Credit Component

  ·  There is a waiting list of requests of small credits in the LDF, for the poor men and
     women in villages and hamlets of Sohag.
  ·  In the local development fund spent a short time in processing and disbursement of loans
     to 5 - 7 months since more than a year, however, still needs further improvement mainly
     through decentralization of decisions and exchange and transfer from Cairo to Sohag.
  ·  Local loans committee from its inception and activation at the level of Sohag, have been
     effectively in significant increasing the numbers of loans.
  ·  There is a need for more training for the preparation and formulation of projects and
     applications to be submitted in Sohag.
  ·  Borrowers demanding the improving the value of loan amounts to more than 10000 LE).
  ·  Representatives of BDAC and LDF demanded to increase the rate of motivation set in the
     Convention to increase productivity.
  ·  Employees of both BDAC and LDF demanded to reduce interest rates as it is too high for
     borrowers poor (13.5% for BDAC and 9% for LDF).
  ·  Replacement land guarantees with acceptable guarantees, especially for women who do
     not possess land.
  ·  advised to study the feasibility of direct lending to poor rural communities through NGOs
     and to be channeled through the Ministry of Social Affaires who is responsible for these
     associations, or through non-governmental organizations as successful experiences in
     each of the Social Fund for Development, Egyptian-Swiss Fund, the United Nations
     Children's Fund, Who was not performing in SRDP because of legal requirements with
     regard to safeguards.

D. Technical Issues
     a. Creating a separate financial unit within the Governorate to be entrusted with all financial
         transactions and payments related to contracts under the Project. Members of this unit should
         be of well qualified individuals who will be given clear sets of responsibilities and
         obligations as well as enough authority to be able to take decisions and to speed up the
         payments. In this respect, those individuals should be well trained and should be given
         adequate incentives.
     b. Using of a "Country System" for procurement in order to match as much as possible the
         differences and contradictions between the Bank's procurement guidelines and the Egyptian
         laws and regulations.




                                               78

c. Depositing all counterparts'funds with Sohag Governorate which in turn pays these funds to
   contractors and suppliers. This will ensure speedy payment of the counterpart funds and
   consequently IDA/IF AD funds which, at present, cannot be paid separately.




                                         79

                                 7- Costs and Financing

Table 1. Project Costs and Financing ( to be completed and adjusted )

(a)        Project Cost by Component ( in US$ million equivalent )

                                                                     Appraisal Estimate     Actual / Latest     Percentage of
                             Components
                                                                       (US/million )     Estimate (US/million)   Appraisal

1. Local Institutions Strengthening in Sohag Governorate                   5.5                   7.5               137%
- TAS Team                                                                 1.7                   1.2
- Governorate Level                                                        3.7                   6.3

2. Village Infrastructure Developmen                                       47.5                 55.0               116%
3. Rural Finance                                                           23.0                  5.0               22%
a) On-Farm Technology Improvement & Rural Investment                       17.9                   B
- Line of Credit BDAC                                                      17.2                  0.0                0.0
- Institutional BDAC                                                       0.7                     ?
b) Micro-Credit for Income Generation                                      5.1                   5.0               98%
 i) Community-Based Micro-Credit                                           2.3                   0.0                0%
 - Sohag BDAC                                                              0.8                   0.0                0%
 - LDF                                                                     1.5                   0.0                0%
 ii) Individual Micro-Credit                                               2.3                   5.0               217%
 - Sohag BDAC                                                              0.8                   1.4               175%
 - LDF                                                                     1.5                   3.6               240%
iii) Institutional Building LDF                                            0.5                     ?

                                              Total Baseline Cost          76.5

Physical Contingencies                                                     4.8

Price Contingencies                                                        12.9

                                              Total Project Costs          93.8               (67.5+) ?          (72+?)%

                                    Total IDA Financing Required            25                  28.7               115%




                                             80

8- Remarks at the end of the project report prepared by the World Bank mission after a
                                       visit in March 2008

1- Regarding presence of defects in the surveys

A) Based essentially on beneficiaries perceptions surveys focus groups

        Although the TAS team used more than one way as questionnaires and discussion
groups also used the Group variables descriptive and quantitative methods and customary in
social studies to identify the impact of projects on targeted people.

B) Sample selection

        The sample size identifying based on guidance of World Bank consultant to reduce the
number of the sample (80 identified) in 2005 and studies for lack of financial facilities and
transition of data collection and for a team TAS (two only) for social studies and design
collection, analysis and report writing. Has been compensated by using discussion groups,
which amounted to (10 discussion groups (8-10 participants each group) in the 2005 study, 46
participants in the study of 2006), when they were providing facilities for the collection of data
was increased sample size to 1261 identified infrastructure projects and 280 identified in the
micro crediting in 2008 final study.

C) Scoring

        3 categories were used (high - average - poor) to describe the response identifiers
before and after the project scheduling and replication of results and percentages, and the
transfer of results from Data stage to Information stage, by calculating relative weight (%) per
item for the calculation of the relative improvement before and after the project according to
resources in the curriculum final survey report.

D) Interpreting

        See, for example, a study of 2005 Social Survey, which has been described in a
detailed interpretation of results

E) Scurvies based essentially on qualitative techniques

        In 2005 study, the social survey were used (20 index) quantitatively for not running all
the social infrastructure projects, increased to (27 index quantitative) in 2006 and concluded to
(37 quantitative study in 2008) as well as a large number of quantitative indicators used to
monitor the activities of the LDF, BDAC and this number quite sufficient to ensure the
balance of indicators quantitative and qualitative studies in social surveys




                                               81

F) Level of M&E team activates

       At the beginning of the project and even before the actual closing date of the project
(2006) with one year a monitoring and evaluation specialist had been assigned, and before that
there were not any facilities or data or clear system of monitoring and evaluation, which was
confined only to social surveys and follow-up training and infrastructure projects, so saying
that repeating what Occurred after 2005 was not properly after the data organization and a
clear system of monitoring and evaluation and preparation of detailed reports depend on
several indicators, as recommended by the World Bank follow-up missions.

       This can be done through the preparation of a database for infrastructure projects and
SPSS analysis and collection, analyzing, preparing of all the indicators recommended by the
World Bank consultant and preparing monthly reports & quarterly beginning from first of
January 2007.

2) Weakness of Institutional strengthening outputs

Activities of this component have been covered through equipment supplied at all levels
(governorate - districts - local units) as well as intensive training for all planners, organizers
and executives of all service sectors in addition to maintaining the involvement of services
directorates in the coordination and sub-projects selection, designing and implementation of
workshops that took place To exchange experiences and lessons learned.

3) No possibility of the Governorate to make counterpart teams for TAS

The aim of establishing a parallel group of TAS is to transfer of expertise to governmental
officers working to preserve it, directly or indirectly through:

A. Transfer of bidding and awarding for sub-projects for the conservation service directorates.
B. Services Directorates'engineers benefit from the experiences of sub-projects supervising.
C. Involve accountants to preserve the art of preparing budgets of projects in advanced way.
D. Encouraging workers in both the LDF, BDAC to organize databases and to participate in
    data collection and preparation of studies and field researches.
E. Involve officers in development management in maintaining coordination of studies,
    Shorouk meetings and activities to promote participation.
F. And - to encourage officers of local units to contribute in the implementation meetings,
    discussion groups, training and data collection.




                                               82

         Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

IFAD39:

Overall [we] found the report well written and capturing the most important issues. It is quite
rich and informative with lessons learned for future interventions.

1.      The report did not focus enough on targeting the rural poor and long term project
outcomes.

2.      The M&E system deficiencies and weakness are well flagged and this is an issue for all
development projects in Egypt or elsewhere.                Perhaps the report should mention that
borrowers usually do not see the need for a good M&E system, often they see it as donor
requirement with little VA to them.

3.      The report should mention IFAD support to TAS on M&E, ref Karim Shalabi.

4.      [We] disagree on statement on page 61 (right after table 6.1): there was no delay on
IFAD side. Often borrowers start counting down from first day of submitting the WA even it
the latter does meet all requirements such as the need for more supporting documentation or
information or clarifications.

5.      Last but not least: the cooperation between IFAD and the WB during project
supervision was very good.




39
  Comments received from Abdelhamid Abdouli, Country Program Manager IFAD.




                                                   83

                              Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
SRDP: Identification Mission, July 1995
SRDP: Socio Economic and Production Systems Survey (SEPSS), October 1995
SRDP: Inception Mission (WB/FAO CP), November 1995
SRDP: Project Concept Document Review, October 1996
SRDP: Final; Project Concept Document, October 1996
SRDP: PID preparation, March 1997
SRDP: Project appraisal, November1997
SRDP: PAD publication, July 31st 1998
SRDP: Loan & Credit Agreements
SPDP: Supervision Mission Aide Memoire and ISRs (October 2000 to April 2008)
SRDP: Quality at entry assessment, November 1999
SRDP: Agricultural Modernization Project ICR, September 2002
SRDP: Private Sector and Agricultural Development Project ICR, March 2005
World Bank CAS for Egypt for the Period FY06 to FY09, 2005

Awareness program design for SRDP
TOR of Environmental Review of Sub-projects
Social monitoring program design
Procedure for assessments of effectiveness of participation program design.
Quoting and installing the counterparts working with SRDP
Recommended for discussing (possibility of NGOs assumption of managing infrastructure sub-
projects).
Health and environmental validity Awareness program design.
Training needs study
Project Training program plan
Bidding and specifications document for the Training program
SRDP components & activities awareness program design
Women's legitimate and institutional Rights, Public Awareness program.
CS obstacles in Sub-projects locations, recommended solutions, lessons learned, and
recommendations.
Sub-projects preliminary handling obstacles and lesson learned.
Social monitoring program results
Training needs study
Environmental Health Awareness Program
The detailed Inventory of SRD Authorities in Sohag Governorate.
Work plan of Social Monitoring program
Analytical study for a sample of bidding documents of previous work plans.
Iron & manganese in groundwater in Sohag and other rural governorates.
Pre- Survey findings in Social M&E program
Analytical study for current O&M plan in rural areas
First preliminary Post survey for social M&E program
Pre survey findings report for beneficiaries of sub-projects
Study of the reasons of not using KG classes allover 6 basic education schools.
Findings of the first post survey
Final report of the Institutional Constructing Project
Guide lines for Infrastructure Sub-Projects planning in villages
Simplified Feasibility Study for technical, economic, environmental, and Social aspects for Sub-
projects




                                                  84

Guide lines for CS for Water Sub-projects
Guide lines for Environmental Review for Sub-projects.
Guide lines for CS manual (observers & Supervisors)
Guide lines for Preparing O&M program reports for Infrastructure subprojects and Equipment.
Guide lines for Preliminary Handling for sub-projects.
Guide lines for Instructive modules for Bidding Documents
Monthly progress reports from 1 : 60
Quarterly financial, technical and Social reports from 1 : 19




                                                      85

                                                                             22°             26°           30°             34°        SYRIAN
                                                                                     GREECE                            CYPRUS           ARAB
                                          ASSIUT                         34°                                                              REP.
                                                                                         Mediterranean                  LEBANON


                                                                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                 West Bank and Gaza


                                                                         30°                              CAIRO                       JORDAN


                                              49
                                                       48                                                      Nile R.              SAUDI


                                       50                                   LIBYA
                                             A                                                                          SOHAG
                                                                         26°                                Area                   Red      26°
                                                                                                           of Map
                                                                                                                                       Sea
                                                                                            ARAB REPUBLIC
                                               47    51                                         OF EGYPT                    Lake
                                                                                                                             Nasser
                                     42                                  22°


                                                                                                              SUDAN
                                                                         CHAD
                                     45       44
                                                                          22°               26°              30°
                                          B                                                                                     34°
                                                  46




                                   27

                                                43
                                         28
                                     C
                                               11

                                     29


                                                        30
                                          10


                                  9        D
                                       8       12

                                                       E

                                         34
                                                        31      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                                39
                                                     41           SOHAG RURAL
                                           38
                                                         2    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                         35  F
                 EL WADI                               G
                                           Sohag          1
              EL GEDIDE
                                          40
                                                      37
                                                 36                10 LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS:
                                       32   33
                                                                            1       Al Hawawish

                                                     17                     2       Nidah
                                                                            3       Al Koulah
                                           14
                                                                            4       Arabet Abi Doos

                                            H                               5       Awlad Elewa
                                                                            6       Bani Hamil
                                                                            7       Bardees
                                     16   15       3                        8       Al Bitakh
                                                                            9       Alghurayzat
                                                         EL BAHR         10         Awlad Ismael
                                                                         11         Bnaweet
                                            13          EL AHMAR         12         Shandawil
                                                                         13         Awlad Hamza
                                                                         14         Al Zouk Al Garbiyah
                                                                         15         Aldowyrat
                                                                         16         Awlad Salama
                                   26      23                            17         Rawfea Alesawya
                                                                         18         Al Kashh
                                          I                              19         Alkhiam
                                                                         20         Awlad Yehia Bahari
                                           22                            21         Awlad Salem Bahari
                                                                         22         Elawamer Bahari
                                                                         23         Alberba
                                                                         24         Almagabra
                                    25      24        20                 25         Bait Alam
                                                                         26         Bait Dawood
                                                                         27         Altolyhaat
                                                                         28         Enaibes
                                                                         29         Gohina El Sharkiyah

                                          5        7                     30         Al Galawiyah
                                                         K               31         Siflaq

                                       4    J                            32         El Kawamel
                                                                         33         Alsalaa
                                                                         34         Arabet Abou Dahab
                                                       21                35         Awlad Azaaz
                                                                         36         Balasfoura
                                           6
                                                                         37         Boundar Alkourmanya
                                                                         38         Edfa
                                                   19                    39         Gezeret Shandaweel
                                                                         40         Rawafea Al Kousair
                                                            18           41         Tounis
                                                                         42         Alsafeha
                                                                         43         Alsawama Ghreb
                                                                         44         Banga
                DISTRICTS:                                               45         Nazlet Al Kadey
                A TEMA                                                   46         Shatwora
                B TAHTA                                                  47         Almadmaer

                C GOHINA EL-GHRBIA                                       48         Alsalamon
                                                                         49         Alrayaina Almualak
                D AL-MARAGHA                                             50         Om Doma
                E SAQULTA                                                51         Meshta
                F SOHAG                         QENA
                G AKHMIEM
                H AL MENSHAH
                I GERGA
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                       IBRD
                J AL-BALYNA                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                K DAR EL-SALAM                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                 29425R
                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        2008                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

