                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                      Report No: 27064

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-25680)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.7 MILLION (US$ 38.5 MILLION equivalent)

                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                     FOR THE

                    LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                 October 28, 2003




Water & Urban II
Africa Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective September 9, 2003)

                                     Currency Unit = Cedis
                                              8,690 = US$ 1.00
                                          US$ 1.00 =    8,690

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1     December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP     Accra District Rehabilitation Project
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAGD     Controller and Accountant General's Department
DA       District Assembly
DACF     District Assembly Common Fund
DCE      District Chief Executive
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West African States
EOP      End of Project
GOG      Government of Ghana
GPRTU    Ghana Private Road Transport Union
HIPC     Highly Indepted Poor Countries
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KVIP     Kumasi Ventilated Improved Pit
LGDP     Local Government Development Project
LGPSU    Local Government Project Support Unit
LI       Legislative Instrument
LVB      Land Valuation Board
MA       Municipal Assembly
MFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLGRD    Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
MWH      Ministry of Works and Housing
NDPC     National Development Planning Commission
NGO      Non-Governmental Organizations
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PNDC     Provisional National Defense Council
PSCS     Personal Services Contract Staff
PWP      Priority Works Project
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RCC      Regional Coordinating Council
RIAP     Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SD       Survey Department
TCPD     Town and Country Planning Department
TSC      Technical Services Center
UESP     Urban Environmental Sanitation Project


                                   Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                               Country Director:       Mats Karlsson
                                Sector Manager:        Inger Andersen
                             Task Team Leader:         Charles K. Boakye

                                            GHANA
                  LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P000936                                                      Project Name: LOCAL GOVT DEV.
Team Leader: Charles K. Boakye                                           TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 29, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: LOCAL GOVT DEV.                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-25680
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (38%); General
                            transportation sector (38%); Sub-national government
                            administration (12%); Central government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Decentralization
                            (P); Pollution management and environmental health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/11/1989                                        Effective: 12/30/1994              12/30/1994
   Appraisal:    06/10/1993                                            MTR: 02/01/1997                06/23/1997
    Approval:    02/17/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/Local Government Project Support Unit
                      Other Partners:      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto Madavo                                Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 James O. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:             Charles K. Boakye                              Jagdish K. Bahal
ICR Primary Author:             Charles K. Boakye and Gerhard
                                Tschannerl; assisted by Ephrem
                                Asebe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to:
     a) Improve basic infrastructure and urban services in secondary cities, especially services
         benefiting lower-income people.
     b) Promote the sustainability and expansion of urban services by strengthening the District
         Assemblies' (DAs) financial, technical and managerial capacities.
     c) Support the Government's decentralization program to promote accountability and efficiency in
         the provision of infrastructure and services.

The project objectives were in accordance with the Government's priorities of infrastructure provision to
urban areas with decentralized management of urban services. The project objectives were in line with
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana that supported decentralized development and local
ownership of the development process. The Project was preceded by Sector Study: Ghana,
Strengthening Local initiative and Building Local Capacity, (Report No. 11369)-GH, Washington, D.C.:
February 1993. It addressed the process and scope of devolution of functions, and the local/central fiscal
relationships, including revenue sharing, and reviewed the capacity of DAs to plan, finance, manage and
maintain local infrastructure and service delivery. A previous urban study - Ghana, Reviving the Urban
Sector (July 1988) - had also proposed a comprehensive agenda on decentralization, urban
management and institutional development, and key elements were incorporated in the preceding Urban
II project, which also remained relevant for the follow-up Local Government Development Project
(LGDP).

While Part (a) of the objective was clear, Parts (b) and (c) contained cause and effect statements, which
made it difficult to choose a consistent set of Performance Indicators (PI) for impact (see Annex 1).
Nevertheless, the intention of the objective was clear. The PIs, developed during the Mid-Term review
of July 1997 offered the opportunity for DAs to review their understanding of project objectives and
components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
a)       Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Infrastructure and Urban Services Component (US$35.69
million). This included the rehabilitation and upgrading of three types of basic infrastructure and urban
services:
     i)  Roads and Storm Water Drainage consisted of the rehabilitation of 73.9 km of existing key town
         center roads and links with the trunk road network; associated storm water drains; and basic
         traffic management measures, including intersection improvements and traffic signs.
     ii) Markets and Lorry Parks involved rehabilitation and upgrading of existing markets and lorry
          parks, including the provision of paving, drainage, water standpipes, sanitation and washing
          facilities, security lighting, and structures.
     iii) Waste Management included a) Solid Waste, covering the establishment of environmentally
         engineered landfill sites in each of the 11 towns, fencing of refuse collection stations, and
         provision of containers, tractors, and other equipment; and b) Liquid Waste, involving the
         establishment of liquid waste disposal sites, renovation of public toilets, construction of new
         pubic toilets, extension of water and lighting to public toilets, provision of cesspit emptiers,
         construction of underground holding tanks, and funding of matching grants to households for
         latrine construction.

b) Institutional Strengthening Component (US$7.74 million):
     i)  Improving the financial, managerial, and technical capacity of District Assemblies to perform
         functions consistent with Ghana's overall economic reform program; and
    ii)  Strengthening the capacity of selected central government agencies to support the District



                                                        - 2 -

Assemblies.
         The central Government agencies involved in this component included the Land Valuation Board
         (LVB) for the revaluation of properties; Survey Department (SD) for the preparation of maps;
         Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) for the preparation of simple land-use plans;
         and Technical Services Center (TSC) for project management and coordination for Ministry of
         Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) and the DAs.

c) Operation and Maintenance Component (US$5.21 million) included establishing and maintaining a
fund for operation and maintenance of the facilities provided under the project, and recurrent cost of
DA's key professional staff.

d) Contingencies (physical and price) (US$6.88 million)
3.4 Revised Components:
The project objectives were not changed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

The project was designed in the context of the Government of Ghana's evolving decentralization policy,
the basic premise of which was that the DAs would eventually have discretionary responsibility for policy
formulation, planning, implementation and maintenance. It focused on improving the living conditions of
the population of 11 secondary towns, namely Bawku, Bolgatanga, Wa, Techiman, Sunyani, Ho,
Koforidua, Agona-Swedru, Keta/Anloga, Cape Coast and Elmina. Six of the towns are regional capitals
while the remaining five are district capitals.

The lessons learned from previous projects were taken into account during project preparation. The
project evolved after the success of the IDA-financed Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) and
the Urban II projects first in Accra and Tema, then in the five Metropolitan/Municipal cities. The
Government felt the need to replicate the lessons for the development of 11 District headquarters that
were next in the order of size and economic importance.

The project objectives were consistent with Government's priority for the sector. The Government's
ambitious decentralization program started in 1988 with the passage of the Local Government Law
(PNDCL 207) that gave authority for the establishment of 45 new local Governments bringing the total to
110. This was followed by the 1992 constitution of the Republic of Ghana after 11 years of military rule,
and Chapter 20 of the new constitution was devoted entirely to "Decentralization and Local Government."
The Local Government Law assigned to the DAs the responsibility for performing the functions
previously carried out at the local level by the 22 central government departments, making the DAs
directly responsible for health, construction, rehabilitation, maintenance of buildings, roads and drains,
markets and lorry parks and community development. The project therefore focused on building
capacity in the DAs, while other services were managed by the central government.

The project was consistent with the results of sector work and the CAS objectives. Two World Bank
sector studies that were carried out about the same time stressed the need for the Bank to support the
sector to deepen the decentralization program (see Section 3.1).

The project had local government ownership from the start, but limited community participation. The
subcomponents selected for financing in each district were prepared with the involvement of the
Assembly members, and all the draft designs were presented to the General Assembly in the District
before the designs were finalized. The consultations took place with the local political establishment,
although not directly with the intended beneficiaries.

The potential environmental and social impact was adequately studied. Most of the works were small and
had a low potential for negative environmental impact, with the exception of the final waste disposal
sites, which were located away from settlements. Environment Impact Assessments (EIAs) were carried



                                                     - 3 -

out on all the sites.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, and the impact on poverty reduction is modest.
More than 100,000 low-income people who did not have access to proper sanitation benefited from
household toilets in their homes. Traders and other commuters also benefited immensely from public
toilets and transport terminals that were renovated or improved under the project. A number of skilled
and unskilled laborers got temporary employment from over 60 civil works contracts that were awarded.
While a gender objective was not explicitly stated, many of the infrastructure works benefit women more
than men, including, markets, lorry parks (used largely for moving goods to and from the market), and
urban roads and drains (facilitating trading and making cleaning easier). They also benefit from the
improved working environment at lorry parks and health conditions in the markets.

A.       The improvement in basic infrastructure and urban services in the project towns is
satisfactory.
a)       Most DAs have met the target of no additional refuse accumulating outside designated areas and
at least 90 percent of the refuse collection equipment in operating condition (see Annex 1). Most of the
refuse that has accumulated in parts of the cities over several years has been removed and unauthorized
dumping of fresh refuse in the town has ceased, which will improve the health status of the people.
Some accumulated refuse remains in the towns' and it is noteworthy that some DAs are gradually
removing them on their own.
b)       There is greater access to sanitation and better maintenance of latrines through the use of more
cesspit emptiers, which in some cases have served other towns in the region in addition to project towns.

c)       The construction of urban roads and drains has made an impact. Road construction has eased
traffic congestion (aided by the introduction of one-way systems), improved accessibility to businesses
and residences, improved road safety through the introduction of traffic signals, and reduced dust.
d)       In most DAs drainage has eliminated flooding on improved or rehabilitated roads adjacent to, as
well as in markets and transport terminals (Annex 1). In three towns drainage has helped to reclaim
seriously eroded land.
e)       The improvement of 14 markets combined with transport terminals was successful after long
delays. To date, some markets have not yet been put to use. Only three towns erected all the market
sheds and two erected a part of them with their own funds as originally planned.
f)        All the lorry parks are in operation, managed by GPRTU. Some have already encountered
major maintenance problems. In Bolgatanga, as a result of substandard work performed by the
contractor, the servicing and washing of vehicles, as well as general use of unauthorized heavy duty
articulated trucks on the lorry park, the condition of the pavement in the Bolgatanga lorry park
deteriorated rapidly. Subsequently, it was rehabilitated again through the project just before the credit
came to a close.

B.       The outcome of promoting the sustainability and expansion of urban services by
strengthening the DAs' financial, technical and managerial capacity is satisfactory.

The objective was to implement and sustain project benefits through effective integration of the staff of
previously centralized departments assigned to the DA level. The project was to support this objective
by assisting the 11 DAs to reduce the number of district-level departments and establish an effective
internal structure within departments. The project elements focused on integrating staff of the
centralized departments into District administration, adopting efficiently-oriented approaches, where
feasible to District Assembly employment (greater use of fixed term or contract employment), and
demonstrating effective commitment to adequate recurrent financing of O&M requirements of
infrastructure investments financed under the project, including the involvement of the private sector.

The project demonstrated that strong institutional capacity in the fields of planning, management, finance
and operational and maintenance are essential to providing adequate services, and assuring the


                                                     - 4 -

sustainability of services. The Zonal Officers and District Contract Staff (see Section 4.2 B) helped to
strengthen the District Works and Finance Departments. The personnel assisted in the preparation of
annual implementation action plans for all the DAs, assisted DAs in identifying on-the-job training needs
for staff of the works department, and created awareness in the reorganization of the districts in
conformity with the Local Government Law Act 462. They did not only work on the project, but also
several other projects, including education, health and agriculture projects implemented by the DAs and
financed by other donors and GoG. The staff also privatized the operation of the public toilets that
improved the revenue generated from this source by about 700 percent in some DAs. In addition to the
revenues generated, the DAs further saved the costs involved in the running of the toilets, such as
disinfectants and the wages of the attendants and conservancy laborers.

However, the additional Legislative Instruments (LI) under Act 462, which were expected to be
implemented to enable the decentralized departments work together, were not put in place by the
Government. Of the 22 decentralized departments of the district, only the Department of Agriculture was
integrated into the DA as envisaged under Local Government Act 462. All other constituent departments
acted independently of each other as in PNDC Law 207. As the working arrangement for the
decentralized departments was not in place, the Zonal Officers could not achieve the required results. A
new Local Government Act was enacted in August 2003 that is designed to place the DA staff under a
separate working arrangement from the Civil Service. While the contract staff were effective in
producing short-term outputs of the project, they had only a limited long-term impact on the capacity of
the DAs to carry out the tasks (see Section 4.2 B).

Performance of DAs Revenue Collection

All 11 DAs exceeded the target of increasing the internal revenue collection by at least 10 percent in real
terms (adjusted for inflation) in the period of 1997-2002. However only 7 DAs met the target of increasing
market revenue collection by at least 30 percent in real terms (see PIs in Annex 1). The reason for the
shortfall on market revenues was that the rehabilitation or upgrading of markets was completed only
towards the end of the project and could therefore not have had a significant impact on the market rates
collected. The combined internal revenues for all DAs increased by 169 percent (Annex 1, Table 1). The
collection of property rates for all DAs combined increased by 887 percent over the period (Annex 1,
Table 2) and the collection of market revenues by 107 percent (Annex 1, Table 3). As the property
re-valuation was completed around 1999, an increase in the property rates collection could be expected
in the period of 2000 to 2002, which was indeed the case: the average annual collection for all DAs
combined increased in real terms by 68 percent from the period of 1997-1999 to the period of 2000-2002
(Annex 1, Table 2). In 2003, a pilot computerized budgeting and accounting system was established in
four selected DAs that had the capacity to ensure proper management, and there are indications that the
system will improve DAs financial management system.

There was considerable variability in the revenue collection performance of the different DAs, which was
particularly high for property rates. By and large, the performance followed the same pattern for the
different kinds of revenues and in most cases can be ascribed to the prevailing social, economic, and
political conditions in the respective DA. Bolgatanga had the biggest overall increase, followed by
Koforidua and Cape Coast. Bawku, Keta and Elmina had the lowest and showed a decline in market
revenues. Keta has suffered economic decline due to the devastating advance of the sea, and Bawku
due to periodic communal strife. Bolgatanga showed an unusual trend, where the property rates
increased 63-fold, while the market revenues declined over the period.

As a result of the direct intervention made on property revaluation, property rates now form the major
share of locally generated revenues in most DAs. Figures recorded show that average DA revenues
from property revaluation have increased from a range of 3 and 20 percent of internal revenues at the
time of appraisal to 5 and 58 percent of internal revenues in 2002. (The rates formed 58 percent of
revenues from Koforidua, but only 5 percent from Keta). The share of property rates as a proportion of
total DA internal revenues collected increased over the period from 7 percent to 27 percent, while that of
market revenues rose from 22 percent to 30 percent from 1997 to 2000 and then declined to 17 percent
by 2002 (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3). Projections of total revenues were made at the time of appraisal up


                                                     - 5 -

to the year 2000. The actual performance surpassed the projections for all DAs, which can be attributed
more to an underestimation of the inflation rate at appraisal than to a consistent overachievement on
revenue collection by the DAs (Annex 1, Table 4).

Most DAs have contracted out the public toilets to private management through a competitive bidding
process, and substantial revenue has been collected from these toilets in Agona Swedru, Koforidua and
Sunyani District Assemblies. Keta, Bolgatanga, Bawku and Wa have not been able to involve the private
sector in the management of these toilets, and it was learned that the DAs actually spend considerable
amount of money in maintaining them. Privatization of public toilets was successful in DAs that put in
place competitive procedures to the award of contracts, resulting in increased revenue from toilets. A
survey was undertaken in 1999 to sample public opinion on the privatization of public toilets in Sunyani
and the response was positive. Ninety-three percent of those sampled were satisfied with the
privatization exercise and with the level of services provided by the operators.

C.       The outcome of the support to the Government's decentralization program for better
efficiency and accountability in infrastructure provision is satisfactory.

The project was not intended to support a comprehensive program on decentralization, but to make
some specific interventions to advance decentralization. Most of the support was in the form of technical
assistance within the confines of the prevailing state of decentralization, in the areas of reform as well as
capacity building at the District level. Based on recommendations of the sector study, the project was
designed to provide Government with technical assistance to review the revenue mobilization and
transfer system, and generate proposals for giving districts more autonomy and flexibility in revenue
raising and making transfers more predictable. During implementation, the Government decided to
undertake this assignment on its own due to the political issues involved, and actually moved ahead of
the project in that respect. Subsequently, based on the provisions in the Local Government law that
established the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) grants, the Government established a formula
for allocating grants to the Districts. The allocation is approved by Parliament every year. Since 1995,
central government has transferred nearly all of the targeted 5 percent of revenues to the DAs on a
quarterly basis. The transfers were irregular in the early years and fell short of the targeted 5 percent,
but the situation has improved in the past two years.

All the central government agencies, i.e., Survey Department, TCPD and LVB contributed to the
satisfactory performance of the institutional strengthening components. As a result of the capacity built,
the agencies are carrying out similar assignments for follow-up Bank-financed projects, as well as GoG
projects. Prior to the year 2000, the property rates billing and collection system was manual. However,
after the preparation of a new valuation roll by the LVB, the system has been computerized, and staff
has been trained to operate the system. The new Chief Executives engage LVB staff regularly on
contract to resolve valuation-roll updates and other nagging issues that come up from time to time.

4.2 Outputs by components:
See Annex 1 for the output indicators.

A. Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Infrastructure and Urban Services Component (US$34.6
million SAR; US$38.0 million ICR). The output of the component is satisfactory.




                                                      - 6 -

Road improvement and stormwater drainage (US$15.5 million SAR; US$16.6 million ICR).
The output of this component is satisfactory. A total of 57.6km was constructed out of a targeted 73.9km.
The shortfall resulted from increase in cost of implementing road contracts and changes in DAs priorities.
Some roads were dropped because they were planned or had in the meantime been constructed by the
Ghana Highway Authority. Some savings from the road works were used to finance the construction of
more storm drains and street lights. About 4.2km of storm drains were constructed in 4 towns, as against
a target of 3.2km, and 1,196 street lights installed, more than twice the original target of 503. The
inclusion of major electrical works in some civil work contracts was ill advised as some of the contractors
did not have the necessary expertise in electrical works, with the result that some of the lights installed
were sub-standard.

Market and lorry park infrastructure (US$6.6 million SAR; US$9.6 million ICR).
The output of this component is satisfactory. A total area of 42 hectares compared to appraisal target of
28 hectares was covered. KfW contributed the bulk of the funds for the market and lorry parks
infrastructure at the original cost of DM16 million (US$ 8.7 million) while GoG contributed the rest. KfW
also financed the construction of 85 market sheds in Wa, Bolgatanga and Bawku, and 16 sheds in
Anloga. KfW assistance included the services of a consultant who was the lead supervisor. An
additional amount of DM1 million was later transferred to the project from the Promotion of District
Capitals project to finance the extra cost of the market sheds in Bolgatanga, Bawku, Wa and Anloga,
bringing the total KfW contribution to $9.14 million. IDA also contributed about $0.6 million for the
construction of 8 market sheds in Techiman, lockable stores in Elmina and 10 market sheds, loading bay
and drive area in Ho.

Waste Management(US$12.5 million SAR; US$11.8 million ICR).
The output of the overall component is satisfactory. Ten of the planned 11 final disposal sites, for both
liquid (i.e. sludge) and solid waste, were constructed. An additional solid waste disposal site was
rehabilitated in Koforidua, which was already in place and well engineered. All final disposal sites are
now managed by the DAs and nearly all of them have had problems with their operation due to one or
more of the following reasons: poor site selection, poor designs, and inadequate operational
management. The liquid waste facilities in some of the towns were constructed as waste stabilization
ponds and the rest were open pits. Some of the solid waste disposal sites were open spaces, but most of
them were controlled tipping cells in a walled enclosure. Of the targeted 125 refuse collection points that
served as transfer sites of solid waste, the project constructed 193.

The following waste management equipment was delivered to the DAs: 11 bulldozers, 23 skip loaders,
23 cesspit emptiers, 11 tractors, 15 Roll-on Roll-off trucks, 64 trailers, 241 Open containers, 16 covered
containers, 22 night soil containers, and 36 Roll-on Roll-off containers. Some assemblies converted one
of the two septic tank emptiers that were supplied to them to a water tanker, and the bulldozer that was
provided for the efficient filling of final solid waste disposal sites was frequently hired out to contractors
for construction work.

Of the 277 public toilets targeted for rehabilitation or construction, about 206 were completed. Fewer
suitable sites could be identified than had been planned, and many of the toilets that were meant for
construction only needed rehabilitation. This shortfall was amply made up by the construction of 5,968
household toilets, more than twice the targeted 2,700. They benefited an estimated 135,800 people
instead of the originally planned 70,000, and consisted of several popular types: 70 percent were water
closets and the rest were KVIPs, Aqua privies, and other types. Based on preliminary estimates, the
total cost of a toilet facility was put at $300 to $400 and the project paid up to 50 percent ($200) of the
cost into a DA sanitation fund for each household. An audit report carried out in 2002 showed
anomalies in the disbursement of funds in some DAs, and recommended that in future, the component
should be implemented by NGOs.

B. Institutional strengthening (US$7.7 million SAR; US$11.9 million ICR).
The overall outcome is satisfactory.




                                                        - 7 -

Technical Assistance to DAs (US$2.7 million SAR; US$2.0 million ICR). The overall outcome is
satisfactory.
Technical assistance was provided through 12 national consultants in three key fields of municipal
engineering, financial management and district planning and management over a three-year period. The
11 participating towns were grouped into four zones. Each zone was served by a Zonal Office, and
comprised a Civil Engineer, a Finance Officer and a Planning Officer, to advise DAs in their respective
fields for three years. The most senior of the three served as Project Coordinator. Adequate resources,
including equipment and operational support were provided to enable the professionals provide the
needed assistance for capacity building.

Although there were outstanding tasks, the contracts of the zonal officers were not extended after the
scheduled three years. Factors that affected their performance included conflicts with DAs personnel,
lack of acceptability by DAs staff, the inability of the Assemblies to recruit their requisite chartered
accountants as counterpart staff, and the fact that the various departments of the Assemblies had not yet
been decentralized. Furthermore, the zonal officers were supposed to assist the DAs in the adaptation
and introduction of improved budgeting and accounting systems, as well as software and manuals, which
had been developed under the Urban II project. MLGRD apparently was not committed to carrying out
these reforms. It never made these studies available to the zonal officers and the DAs and did not
procure the necessary computer networking equipment required for their implementation. The major
infrastructure works from which revenues could be collected, that is markets, lorry parks and public
toilets, were not fully completed when the zonal officers were in place, and billing for property rates could
not start since the property revaluation had not been completed. Key outputs are as follows:

The Planning Officers in the zonal offices facilitated the preparation of 5-year medium term development
plans, prepared for the Assemblies by consultants, and introduced the costing element to the plan. The
limited success was due to the lack of an institutional link between the zonal planning unit and the
National Development Planning Commission (NDPC.) The latter body has statutory responsibilities for
the administration of planning studies throughout the country, and the support provided by the zonal
planning office conformed to the technical requirements of the NDPC. The zonal planning officers could
also influence the perceptions of the NDPC through the field experiences submitted to them.
The Engineers organized briefing sessions for senior staff of DAs on relevant aspects of civil works
contracts. Although the engineers were supposed to be advisors to the DA staff, they played a major
role in both LGDP and non-LGDP civil works contracts, especially in towns where DA staff was not
available. They helped to put in place arrangements for the maintenance of the waste management
equipment and established modalities for the privatization of public toilets.
The Finance Officers, who were chartered accountants, helped to introduce activity based budgeting in
some DAs, which better reflects reality than incremental budgeting. The existing accounting system in
most DAs reported only cash transactions, and the officers helped to record bills according to the accrual
system of accounting. As a result of difficulties encountered in the recruitment of chartered accountants
as counterpart staff in the DAs, (see below), the zonal Finance Officers not only advised, but also
implemented the finance component in the Districts. Their effectiveness was severely constrained by the
institutional fragmentation of financial management at the District level. Budgeting is controlled by the
Budget section, headed by the Budget Officer who was a staff of Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP), whereas accounting is controlled by the District Finance Officer, a staff of the
Controller and Accountant General's Department (CAGD), who concentrates on expenditure controls in
the assembly, leaving the revenue generation to the revenue section, controlled by Revenue staff who
are not under any Ministry, but are staff of the Assembly. This arrangement, which still prevails in the
Assemblies, creates a low incentive for revenue generation, and is responsible for a lack of coordination
among the different sections.

Strengthening the capacity of selected central government agencies to support the DAs

Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) for Land-Use Planning (US$0.33 million SAR;
US$0.17 million ICR). The outcome of the component is satisfactory.
Land-Use Planning was completed in 2003 with the delivery of electronic and hard copies of structural
plans for both developed and undeveloped areas of two urban towns. The scheme will guide public and



                                                       - 8 -

private investments in infrastructure, revenue generation and urban planning, ensure efficient urban
growth and reduce environmental problems. It was originally meant for 9 towns, but due to insufficient
cooperation among the TCPD, the consultants, and the project implementation unit, it was reduced to
two towns, Sunyani and Techiman, with the understanding that Planning Officers in the other towns will
replicate lessons in their respective towns at the end of the assignment. The replication has not yet
materialized. TCPD staff in the head office and regional offices have, however, been trained in various
aspects of development planning. All six regional offices were supplied with 6 double cabin pick-ups, 6
motorcycles and computers.

Land Valuation Board (LVB) for Property Revaluation (US$0.66 million SAR; US$1.16 million ICR).
The outcome of the component is satisfactory.
A total of 125,043 properties were revalued in 12 towns, as against the targeted 74,300. The increase
was due to the addition of 40,000 newly constructed properties. LVB staff carried out the revaluation and
completed the exercise in 8 towns at the cost of $680,187 while three private sector valuation firms
revalued properties in the remaining 3 towns, which amounted to 39 percent of properties at the cost of
$481,361. LVB staff also carried out post-valuation exercises, involving outreach with DAs, updating of
valuation rolls and a computerization program. Two LVB staff members were exposed to valuation
techniques in the United Kingdom's Valuation Office and other staff members were trained in various
aspects of valuation. The project also supplied 5 double-cabin pickups, 33 motorcycles and 2
computers, printers and accessories to the Department.

Survey Department (SD) for Mapping (US$1.6 million SAR; US$1.8 million ICR).
The outcome of the component is satisfactory.
Of the targeted 300 sq. km, about 700 sq. km of large-scale maps of scale 1:2500 were produced for 11
project towns. The additional 400 sq. km covered the undeveloped areas of the urban towns to facilitate
future planning. The maps, which are available in both digital and hard copy forms covering the project
towns, will also be used for infrastructure programming and revenue mobilization services. The maps
are essential to enable land users, planners, engineers, land valuers, and providers of utility services to
carry out their work properly. The component was implemented by private sector contractors under the
overall supervision of the Survey Department (SD), which is also responsible for the maintenance of the
maps. The SD had undertaken a similar assignment under Urban II and other GoG projects. Their staff
received overseas training in digital mapping techniques.

Technical Services Center (TSC) for Project management (US$0.7 million SAR; US$1.3 million ICR).

The overall outcome of the component is satisfactory.
Under a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) and the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural development, the TSC provided overall implementation and
project management support to the other agencies and DAs. TSC had overall responsibility, on behalf of
MLGRD, for accounting, procurement, monitoring, coordinating and reporting functions. The MLGRD
was responsible for the institutional strengthening component, especially with respect to technical
assistance for improving local revenue collection performance, financial management systems, and DAs
organizational structure and staffing. It was resourced and benefited from an accounting system that
enables the production of various reports. Both TSC and MLGRD performed satisfactorily under the
project and by 1999, the MLGRD wanted to improve project coordination to enhance overall
implementation of the follow-up bank financed UESP. The MoU was abrogated and most of the
professional staffs were co-opted in the LGPSU that was established in the MLGRD with the
responsibility for implementing all Bank-financed projects. The LGPSU carried out the functions
previously undertaken by TSC well, but could not adequately handle the technical assistance support to
the DAs.

C. Incremental Recurrent costs and Operation and Maintenance (US$5.2 million SAR; US$2.3
million ICR). The overall output of this component is unsatisfactory.
Operation and Maintenance (US$3.3 million SAR; US$1.4 million ICR).
The output of this component is satisfactory.




                                                    - 9 -

By the end of 1998, all DAs had established an O&M fund, and both IDA and the DAs made contributions
to this fund up to December 2001, after which IDA financing stopped according to the declining
disbursement percentage for this category. IDA financing into this fund was 50 percent for the first 3
years and 30 percent for subsequent years. The reported cumulative contribution of the DAs is $828,129
equivalent and that of IDA $538,330. These funds were used mainly for the servicing and fueling of
waste management trucks, street cleaning, and drain cleaning for the DAs and were not necessarily
limited to the infrastructure and equipment provided through the project. A technical and financial audit
of the O&M funds, completed in August 2003, revealed irregularities in the disbursement of the funds.
Some DA staff did not follow the guidelines for the disbursement of funds and LGPSU did not put in
place adequate procedures for monitoring. The report recommended that future funds should target
specific maintenance activities, and not all maintenance works. A follow-up on the recommendations
contained in the report has been impaired by the fact that most of the DA staff who supervised the
component had been transferred at the time of the audit.

Personal Service Contracts Staff (PSCS) (US$1.9 million SAR; US$0.9 million ICR).
The output of this component is unsatisfactory.
In parallel with the establishment of Zonal Offices, a pilot scheme to test a "labor market approach" in
local government employment was initiated to recruit 33 key staff in higher-level positions in the DAs on
contract basis, and as counterparts to the Zonal Officers. The aim was to improve the competency of
key staff at the District level, which could in general not be maintained due to the unattractive conditions
of employment in the civil service, and was to ensure that all DAs had at least one qualified Engineer,
one Planning Officer, and one Finance Officer. At the end of the recruitment drive, only 22 positions
were filled, including 11 Planners, 10 Engineers and 1 Finance Officer. The Finance Officers were
particularly difficult to find, as they were required to be chartered accountants, and they were not
satisfied with the $1,000 (equivalent in cedis) remuneration offered for the position. The financing of the
District Contract Staff was initially to be shared by the Government and DAs, and was based on the
premise that as DAs' self-generated revenues increased as the Revenue Improvement Action Plans
(RIAPs) were implemented, the DAs would increase their share of the financing over time. The terms
and conditions of their contracts were negotiated with the MLGRD and the District Chief Executives
(DCEs), and a uniform rate was agreed on for all the staff. The assignments started in mid-1997, and
there was an initial lack of cooperation from DAs, who saw the recruitment as top-down. The wide salary
gap between the PSCS and the DA civil servants also made matters worse. PSCS were not fully
embraced by the DAs, and they did not involved them in their work. Subsequently, their contracts were
not extended after the initial four years. The Government also financed 100 percent of the recurrent cost
throughout the entire contract period of 4 years although it was meant to be shared with the DAs. These
difficulties notwithstanding, the District staff contributed to improving the technical capacities of the DAs.
After their contracts ended, the Government filled these positions with civil service staff.

Other Cross-Sectoral outcome
Training. A wide range of training activities was undertaken as part of improving capacity of the DAs
and central government agencies. More than 50 courses were provided, benefiting professional staff,
heads of departments and general Assembly staff. They included computer skills, computerized budget
and accounting, monitoring and evaluation, staff development, performance evaluation, engineering,
and planning. The training had only a limited impact as few of the senior DA staff trained were still in
their posts at End of Project (EOP). They were either transferred to other DAs as part of a routine
exercise by the PSC, or left to join the private sector. There was also a widespread duplication in
training, as other District-based projects, supported by the Bank or other donors, included a similar
training program at the DA level, and often for the same personnel. The widespread duplication has
created an attitude towards training as a form of salary supplementation. This calls for better
coordination and inter-sectoral harmonization between the departments and agencies promoting urban
development.

Private Sector Participation (PSP). Modest gains were made in involving the private sector in the
management of infrastructure services. The civil works contracts were executed by private sector
contractors, and public toilets and lorry parks have been put under private management. However, the
private sector could not be involved in the management of the operation and maintenance of markets



                                                       - 10 -

and waste collection services. After a delay of several years, a pilot study for 4 urban towns was
completed for the establishment of a waste management system through PSP. The consultant designed
ways of implementing a basic waste management system that takes into account financial, legal,
institutional, social, technical and environmental aspects and details of the potential role of the private
sector. Technical assistance with the implementation of these recommendations was provided to the four
Districts near the end of the project, cutting short the completion of their implementation. The waste
management equipment supplied under the project had not been leased to the private sector by EOP
and implementation of this is being planned for within the next phase of the ongoing Urban 5 program.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic viability of the project was measured in the SAR by calculating the EIRR of 14 road
rehabilitation activities, 3 market interventions and two each of the solid waste and liquid waste
management activities. These constituted about 20 percent of the project cost. An ex-post evaluation
was carried out for the 14 road rehabilitation activities using actual contract values and updated traffic
data. The data used for the analysis, the assumptions made, and the results of the exercise are
presented in Annex 3, which shows an average weighted EIRR of the projects of 68 percent, well above
the 15 percent required for approval of projects in the sector. These results also compare favorably with
the corresponding figures of 84 percent overall weighted EIRR for the roads and drainage component, as
given in the SAR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return calculation is shown in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as modest.

1.       At the end of the project, few of the senior DA staff trained was still in place. They were
transferred to other districts every three or four years, but some of them left for employment in the
private sector, depriving the project DAs of the full benefits from the training that had been provided.
The project assemblies have also benefited from senior professionals from other DAs.

2.       The O&M account that was established in every District was not actually used for the upkeep of
the entire municipal infrastructure services as intended. It has nevertheless increased the awareness of
most Districts that better O&M of the equipment can be achieved through planning and budgeting
(Section 4.2 C).

3.       An attempt was made to improve the management, financial and technical capacity of the DAs
through the recruitment of key staff on better terms than the civil service conditions. The rationale was
that the additional revenue generated and the increased budgeting and accounting efficiency would far
exceed the additional salary cost of these employees. This idea was successful insofar as it
demonstrated that strong institutional capacity in the fields of planning, management, finance and
operational and maintenance can provide improved municipal services. It failed, however, as a long-term
measure because not enough chartered accountants could be attracted to these jobs, and the contract
staff were largely considered "outsiders" (Section 4.2 B).

4.       A pilot system for improved budgeting and financial management was introduced in 4 DAs that
had a relatively good management capacity, and there are indications that this will improve financial
management and budgeting (Section 4.1 B).

5.       The TSC under the Ministry of Works and Housing was virtually dismembered in the course of
project implementation and replaced with LGPSU. MLGRD found the cooperation with TSC across
institutional lines increasingly difficult and in 2000 abrogated the MoU and moved the core of the TSC
project implementation staff to MLGRD to form its own project implementation unit. While this may have
improved the implementation of several World Bank-assisted projects, it did not result in a greater role
for the regular MLGRD staff.



                                                      - 11 -

6.       The project has improved the capacity of the LVB and SD to better carry out their mandate. As a
result, the DAs now use a permanent database for property revaluation and a computerized property
rates billing and collection system. LVB monitors the use of the system in the DAs and provide them with
needed technical assistance. LVB and SD are implementing similar services under the Urban 5 project.
The improvement of land use planning in the DAs was less successful.

7.       The local construction and consulting industry was strengthened through the awarding of
contracts. All civil works construction, including two ICB contracts, was carried out by national
contractors, and all design and supervision services were likewise done by national consultants. The
absence of any form of performance monitoring in the construction industry affected the quality and
efficiency of construction services.

8.       Most DAs have contracted out the management of public toilets to private operators through a
competitive process and are collecting substantial revenues (Section 4.2 C).

9.       The waste management equipment supplied under the project had not been leased to the private
sector by EOP, as intended. A study on PSP in waste management was completed only 2 years prior to
the end of the project and could be introduced only as a pilot in 4 DAs, none of which showed significant
improvements in their waste management by EOP, which would require more time and a systematic
follow-up (Section 4.2 B).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
1.       Absence of additional Legislation Instruments (LI) under Act 462, which were expected to be
implemented to enable the decentralized departments work together.

2.       Inflexibility. Strict interpretation of project covenants often led to reduction in scope of the civil
works, so as to keep within budget. However, in almost all contracts, civil works were completed with
excess funds available, necessitating going through another round of the bidding procedures, and above
all, paying additional supervision fees.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
1.       High inflation and depreciation of the local currency adversely affected the implementation of the
project. The average annual inflation was about 25 percent, and peaked at 75 percent in 1995 . Internal
revenue generated under the RIAPs program depreciated as a result of inflation, and contractors and
consultants persistently complained of depreciation of the value of the contracts. This compelled the
project unit to introduce price adjustment clauses in almost all contracts.

2.       The Government lacked the commitment to proceed decisively with decentralization. Issues
relating to leadership, accountability and full devolution of power in DAs are almost absent in the local
Government administration. This is largely due to the nature of the local Government law that currently
exists. Generally, political decentralization has not, so far, been accompanied by a commensurate
decentralization of authority: transfer of significant decision-making authority has not accompanied
creation of fully locally elected legislative bodies at district level.

3.       Nearly all the District Chief Executives were changed in 1996 and 1999 as part of the local
government reshuffle administration, and subsequently most of their senior staff was also changed. The
new Chief Executives did not understand the project and attempted to change the priorities that had
been agreed with the predecessors. This caused considerable disruption to the project. Following the
change in government after the elections of December 2000, the Chief Executives were again changed,
but by this time nearly all the components were completed. They did, however, give an impetus to the
revenue generation components.

4.       Counterpart Funds: The Government reneged on their counterpart fund contribution and this



                                                         - 12 -

affected the implementation of civil works components in the first few years. The implementing agency
was left with no option but delay the payment of withholding tax deductions due the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS), thus creating a kind of vicious cycle, where there was no money for counterpart fund
contribution as a result of poor performance in tax collection, contributed in part by the inability of project
officers to pay tax deductions promptly. This arrangement, apparently with the approval of MFEP and
MLGRD, helped improve the cashflow and eased the counterpart fund crises.

5.       More than half the DAs obtained adequate evidence of land rights for the solid waste disposal
sites before the project became effective, which allowed a quick start of the project. The other DAs
obtained such evidence soon after Effectiveness, with the exception of Ho, where issues arose after the
contractor moved onto the site; after 3 years the problem in Ho was resolved.

6.       Delays in completing civil works. Out of 60 contracts awarded under the project, none was
completed on schedule, with some of them lasting beyond 18 months, instead of the 6 months stipulated
in the contract, and 4 were terminated. The quality of work by some contractors was unsatisfactory. The
reasons for this are nationwide, but much worse for contracts administered by MLGRD and DAs than the
Ministry of Roads and Transport. There is little incentive for contractors--as well as supervising
consultants--to complete the construction on time, as the contractual provisions (such as liquidated
damages) are not enforced, delays are the norm, and payments to contractors are often seriously
delayed. The Government and the industry failed to put an effective monitoring system in place to
regulate the performance of contractors and consultants.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
1.       Staff turnover in LGPSU was stable throughout, and the experience gained in managing
previous projects contributed to the satisfactory civil works implementation performance achieved.

2.       Rising inflation compelled LGPSU to introduce price adjustment formulae in civil works
contracts, reducing the risks to contractors.

3.       The presence of a Financial Management Specialist in LGPSU, even on a short-term basis,
could have improved the performance of the RIAPs program. Both MLGRD and LGPSU did not find the
need to recruit one.

4.       Inadequate outreach to Zonal Officers and District Assembly staff by MLGRD and project unit
contributed to the modest gains on the institutional building component. After the abrogation of the MoU
(Section 4.2), the unit was mandated to manage the technical assistance component, but it was still
preoccupied with civil works, and did not adequately provide the needed advise on institutional issues.

5.       Inadequate coordination between the accounting and engineering staff in the project unit, and
lack of financial forecast of outstanding project funds and required contingency sums, resulted in
identifying excess funds belatedly at the end of each contract. This contributed to the extension of the
credit and the cancellation of more than half a million US dollars of uncommitted funds after the closing
of the Credit.

6.       As two new urban projects (Urban Environmental and Sanitation and Urban V) were under
preparation, attention shifted from implementation of LGDP to the preparation of the new projects, and
this had adverse effects on some LGDP components.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost, as estimated in the SAR, was US$55.51 million, comprising US$26.02 million (47
percent) in local cost and US$29.49 million in foreign costs (53 percent). Financing was to be provided
as follows: IDA: US$38.51 million (69.3 percent of total project cost); KfW: US$8.29 million (15
percent); District Assemblies: US$3.16 million (5.7 percent); and GoG: US$5.55 million (10 percent).
Final financing was US$52.28 million, comprising US$26 million in local cost and US$24.63 million in
foreign cost. Final disbursement were IDA: US$36.88 million, KfW US$9.14 million, GoG US$3.08, DAs




                                                    - 13 -

US$1.77 million and also beneficiaries contribution of US$1.41 million for household toilet, which was not
included at appraisal.

Out of total SAR counterpart forecast of US$5.55 million, US$3.08 million was actually received by the
project unit as counterpart fund contribution, representing about 55 percent of forecast. A withholding tax
amount of about US$0.8 million that should have been paid to GoG was used to meet a part of the
counterpart fund shortfall. An unspecified amount was also waived in taxes and custom duties (import,
ECOWAS tax, and destination inspection) during the importation of vehicles, waste management
equipment and computers. It was not possible to assess the exact Government contribution associated
with the granting of exemptions for taxes and duties, however, this could be substantial. On the whole,
Government total financial contribution could be much closer to SAR's forecast.

The total disbursed amount was reduced to US$52.28 million due to the following factors: i) US dollar
appreciation against the SDR decreased the total IDA contribution from US$38.5 million to US$37.5
million; ii) undisbursed amounts of about US$0.6 million earmarked for cancellation; and iii) large foreign
exchange ratio of payments that were allowed in civil works contracts, which increased IDA proportion for
disbursements and reduced GoG proportions.

The District Assemblies and beneficiaries were expected to contribute US$3.16 million being their share
of the costs associated with the Personal Service Contracts, and Operation and Maintenance Fund. The
total amount contributed was US$1.77 million due to the late start and early completion of the PSCS and
O&M assignments. The total counterpart funds from Government stood at US$3.08m, the share from
the District Assemblies was US$0.83 million, being their contribution to the Operation and Maintenance
Matching Funds, which was what was affordable to them.

Generally, actual cost was in line with SAR forecast, with the exception of consulting services and
training. The cost of the former category of expenditures was higher as a result of more than 100
percent increase in the cost of consultant's supervision services. The cost of the latter was much lower
than anticipated.

The local currency, the Cedi, depreciated by about 1100 percent during the life of the project at an
average annual rate of about 25 percent. The annual high depreciation of the local currency compelled
the project unit to introduce price adjustment formulae in civil works contracts and this reduced the risk to
contractors and consultants.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

1.       Since the project lasted for slightly more than 8 years, many of the activities provided under the
project were completed long before the closing date. This has provided an opportunity to observe that
most of them have performed satisfactorily. For example, since 2001 DAs have on their own employed
the services of LVB to update their valuation rolls for the collection of property rates. Lorry parks are
under the management of a private transport body, the Ghana Private Road Transport Union (GPRTU).
Some facilities, such as markets, lorry parks, public toilets, generate their own maintenance revenues.
Road maintenance is covered by the Road Fund.

2.       The capacity of the DAs to prepare investment plans and implement projects has by now been
well established. The investment and maintenance funds available to the Assemblies have substantially
increased in recent years. Nearly all capital expenditures are financed through grants, which have mainly
consisted of the DACF, donor-assisted project funds, and recently, HIPC funds. In 2002, 1 billion
(US$125,000) was released from the HIPC fund to every Assembly regardless of size, and in 2003, 2.3
billion (US$270,000) to every Municipal Assembly and 1.4 billion (US$165,000) to every DA. There
were 3 MAs and 8 DAs in LGDP. The flow of HIPC funds is expected to increase in coming years as the
Government reaches the completion point of the program.



                                                     - 14 -

3.       In response to complaints about the disruptions caused by frequent staff transfers, the PSC has
recently improved on the posting of qualified professional staff into the DAs. The CAGD also trains and
posts Finance officers to vacant positions in the DAs. Attrition to the private sector, however, continues
to be a problem, which is due to low remuneration in the civil service. Currently, the DAs do not have
authority over their own staff. Since the Local Government Service Act was gazetted (passed by
parliament in August 2003), DAs will have a say in hiring, promoting and transferring their staff, which is
expected to improve the efficiency in staff management and responsiveness to staffing needs.

4.       The private sector has gained experience through implementing components of the project and
the opportunity has been created to involve them in maintaining the facilities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
1.       Ongoing Bank-assisted urban projects that are planned under the APL program through 2011,
and other GoG and donor-financed projects will advance the decentralization objective through a greater
role for the DAs in decision-making and in the implementation of their infrastructure improvements.
These projects will build on the achievements of LGDP in regard to sustaining urban services. A second
phase of the Urban V APL, which would include the project towns that participated in LGDP, is under
preparation. The proposed project will build on the achievements of LGDP in property revaluation,
mapping, waste management systems, and planning for O&M. The introduction of performance
agreements and eligibility criteria for accessing funds would provide an incentive for DAs to improve on
such management aspects as revenue generation, O&M, and planning.

2.       Most infrastructure facilities that were provided are revenue generating, which can cover at least
part of the maintenance cost. With rare exceptions, these revenues are deposited in the general budget
of the Assembly and are allocated according to the priorities prevailing at the time.

3.       Since subsidies for O&M from the credit stopped in December 2001, the DAs have continued to
use their own O&M funds to finance the operation of waste management trucks and other sanitation
activities. For some equipment. the collected revenue (such as that obtained from the occasional hiring
out of bulldozers to contractors) is set aside for maintenance and repair.

4.       The management of nearly all public latrines is done by private operators, who collect user fees
and remit part of their earnings to the DA. They carry out routine maintenance and, depending on the
provisions of their contract, some periodic maintenance. It was the intention to have all project-related
maintenance carried out by contractors and establish unit rates for this purpose. While some
maintenance is carried out through contractors, others are still done through force accounts. In some
DAs private sector operators are starting to carry out solid waste removal.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.
1.       The Bank took the experience gained from previous urban projects in Ghana well into account in
supporting the creation of zonal implementation support units to aid the DAs.

2.       The Bank's team launched two sector studies as part of the preparation of this project,
participated in project preparatory missions for almost two years, and arranged a PPF of US$1 million to
finance project preparatory activities. Most of the team members who carried out the preparation and
implementation of the preceding Accra Districts Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) and the Urban II projects
also participated in the preparation of this project.

3.       A valuable contribution of the Bank was to maintain a balance between physical infrastructure,
institutional capacity building, and financial reform. This stemmed from the recognition that urban
infrastructure may not be sustainable without accompanying measures.



                                                     - 15 -

4.       Cofinancing with KfW allowed more flexibility in adjusting the project content to the needs of the
DAs, helped to attain the project objectives, and brought the experience of another development partner
to the project.

5.       One area where the Bank did not sufficiently apply its rich experience was in the supply of waste
management equipment to the DAs. This project has shown again that such equipment tends to have a
short life and may discourage the private sector from providing these services. The risks were correctly
identified by the Bank and included inadequate management and financing of infrastructure works and a
shortfall in revenue collection due to ineffective implementation of the revenue mobilization components.
These risks did in fact materialize in the course of project implementation, limiting the degree to which
the project development objectives could be attained.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance on supervision was satisfactory.
1.       A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out by QAG in 1998, which rated the
supervision performance satisfactory in the overall as well as for every one of the main themes of: focus
on development impact; supervision of fiduciary aspects; adequacy of supervision inputs and processes;
and realism of project performance ratings. Already at that time, inadequate local government
commitment to the financing of O&M was identified as a problem.

2.       There were only two Task Team leaders in charge of supervision during the life of the project
and they were based in the country office; this ensured regular monitoring of project activities. In the first
few years the supervision teams tended to be small, limited mostly to a financial analyst and an engineer
with the occasional addition of a training specialist. Between them they covered all the supervision
topics. Later, more specialists from the country office joined the missions as the decentralization of
operational functions progressed, including on procurement and financial management. Had there been
more specialists participating in the earlier Bank supervision teams, it may have been possible to avoid
the problems that occurred in later years and which required two extensions of the closing date.

3.       The performance indicators listed in SAR, Annex 19, proved to be unsuitable for monitoring the
progress of project implementation, as they were not quantified and too numerous, containing aspects of
process, input, output and impact. The Logframe that was retrofitted in June 1997 during the mid-term
review contained a better set of indicators, but it was not until the mission of October 2001 that a
satisfactory set of output and impact indicators was developed and used to monitor progress with project
implementation (see Annex 1). The reporting through the PSR format was weak in the first half of
implementation, with information gaps. The reporting improved considerably over time.

4.       The Bank may have been able to better advise the Client about bringing the project to a close. It
was extended twice, mainly to buy additional waste management equipment. Due to a change in
government in 2001, critical decision about completing the project could not be made in time (see
Borrower's performance). In retrospect, it may have been better to either agree on a longer initial
extension period to allow enough time for a range of additional activities or to close the project on the
original date.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of the Bank's performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is satisfactory. The Borrower's participation is rated
satisfactory. The project was high on the government's priority list of providing basic infrastructure and
urban services to the less endowed local governments.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                    - 16 -

The Government's performance in implementation is satisfactory.
In spite of the serious downturn of the economy in 1995 and subsequent years arising out of high interest
rates, high inflation and depreciation of the cedi, the project stayed on course. Counterpart funds
contributions from central government improved over time. New DCEs appointed in 2001 contributed to
the modest gains made on the revenue generation components. Government, however, lacked the
political will to proceed decisively on decentralization.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall implementing agency's performance was satisfactory, despite some shortcomings.
1.       The agency performed well in managing the civil works components, coordinating and preparing
timely and informative progress reports. They had gained experience in undertaking similar assignments
under previous Bank-financed projects, and assisted in the preparation of follow-up projects. However,
while accounting was carried out in a satisfactory manner, the forward financial planning was inadequate.


2.       The project unit acted virtually as a separate entity, manned by consultants, with very few
regular staff from the Ministry. This may have been an adequate arrangement for the implementation of
the physical components of the project, but lacked the long-term institutional commitment for capacity
building in the Ministry as well as in the DAs.

3.       The agency performed well in providing technical advice on infrastructure, but was hesitant to
commence any arrangement that would involve the private sector in managing completed facilities,
especially solid waste and markets.

4.       The MLGRD's decision to cede institutional strengthening components to the project unit when
the MoU was the reason for the limited achievements made in the institutional strengthening
components. The advisory role expected from the ministry was not forthcoming and advise given by the
Bank to engage short-term consultants to continue specific aspects of the technical assistance
components was not heeded. The unit however, consolidated all the bank-financed urban projects and
brought synergy to the portfolio.

5.       The competitive process of procuring the additional waste management equipment resulted in
the award of the contract to a different supplier from the one who provided the equipment during the first
round. After a complaint had been filed, the resulting investigation that was carried out by the Borrower
at the Bank's request did not adequately address the matter, and the Bank was compelled to carry out its
own investigation. Finally, the Bank decided that the deviation, even though it occurred, was not of
sufficient magnitude to declare misprocurement and to cancel the value of these contracts from the
credit.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating of the Borrower's performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Design

1.       Decentralization should form a major part of the project objectives only when the Government
has demonstrated its commitment in practice. A project -- or even a series of projects -- cannot advance
the decentralization of public sector functions if the Government lacks a firm commitment to
decentralization (see Section 5.2).

2.       Projects assisted by various donors should be better coordinated and harmonized at the District
level. Different donors, and even different projects of the same donor, now contain diverse provisions on
the same subject. The need for harmonization is particularly important for training, where duplication
and tenuous links of the training programs to the functions of the trainees create a culture of using
participation in training as a form of additional remuneration for staff.



                                                     - 17 -

3.       Waste management equipment should only be supplied to the public sector under exceptional
circumstances. Such equipment is not adequately maintained by the public sector. Mechanisms for
leasing the equipment to the private sector to carry out the services should be built into the project
design and monitored closely by all parties. The design of the project should also be done in order not to
discourage the entry of the private sector into providing services.

4.       Property revaluation programs should only be carried out if anticipated increases in revenue
exceed the costs. Revaluation is relatively expensive, especially when it involves aerial photography
and mapping, and is not justified unless the anticipated increases in revenue from property taxation
exceed the costs of the exercise. In towns with a large proportion of low-income residents or in those
that for one reason or another experience an economic decline, very little, if any, additional revenue
from properties can be expected (see Section 4.1 B and Annex 1, Table 2).

5.       IDA subsidies deposited into a District O&M account are unlikely to increase the sustainability of
infrastructure services in the long-run. IDA financing for O&M, on a declining-scale basis, was used in
this project to operate and maintain waste management equipment and had no discernible influence on
the O&M of other infrastructure services, contrary to what was intended. In fact, an audit revealed
instances where the funds were misused, that is, expended for purposes unrelated to infrastructure
services (Section 4.2 C).

6.       In the absence of any form of performance monitoring and evaluation system in Ghana's
construction industry, all future urban projects should have built-in mechanisms to ensure quality and
efficiency of construction delivery. The procurement process should start with prequalification of
contractors in all civil works contracts, to eliminate contractors with any previous record of poor
performance (see Sections 4.5 and 5.2). The road agencies, Ghana Highway Authority and Department
of Urban Roads, who are in a better position to monitor road contractors should be more involved in the
implementation of urban road contracts.

Implementation Arrangements

7.       Project implementation support to the Districts should be provided by the Regional Coordinating
Councils (RCC). The project established four Zonal offices, staffed by consultants, to provide technical
assistance in policy planning, knowledge transfer, and capacity building to District Assembly staff. This
was a temporary measure and is not sustainable. The RCCs should participate in project implementation
under their mandate to assist and monitor the DAs, on the one hand and coordinate with the sector
agencies at the center, on the other.

8.       The project management teams should be composed of staff with a variety of skills, to include
institutional, financial management and planning, and not only engineering and accounting. This applies
especially to projects with a decentralization and local government capacity building orientation. A team
that consists mainly of technical specialists is likely to give preference to the implementation of the
physical components at the expense of capacity building and reforms. For the same reason, project
management should be led by regular staff of the project implementing agency (here the MLGRD), with
consultants engaged for specific tasks, when needed (see Sections 5.3 and 7.6).

9.       Proposed contracts should be chosen with the participation of the effected population and should
be contained in DAs Medium-Term Development plans. This will reduce the risk that a decision made by
local officials is questioned, or even changed, by their successors when an all-too-frequent change in the
local leadership takes place (see Section 5.2).

10.      Project activities involving aerial photography, mapping, land valuation, and other land-related
themes should be implemented in collaboration with the Ministry of Lands and Forestry. It was difficult in
this and other projects for the MLGRD to coordinate the project activities of the various land-related
agencies.




                                                      - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency, LGPSU of the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
prepared the evaluation report, which is shown below, and contributed data for ICR preparation. The
agency also gave comments to an earlier draft of this ICR. No comments were received from the
Ministry.

1.      Introduction

1.1     The local Government Development Project was implemented in 12 medium-sized towns from
December 1994 to March 2003. This report provides an assessment of the performance of the project
from the point of view of the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and its implementing
agencies. The assessment covers

    a. The degree to which the project achieved its development objectives as set out in the project
    documents;
    b. Other significant outcomes and impacts;
    c. Prospects for the projects sustainability;
    d. Bank/Borrower performance, including compliance with relevant Bank safeguard and policies;
    and
    e. Identified lessons learned from implementation.

2.      Project Objectives and Components

2.1     The project was formulated to achieve three main objectives, namely:
    a. Improve basic infrastructure and urban services in 12 towns, especially services benefiting lower
    income people.
    b. Strengthen the district assemblies financial, technical and managerial capacities as a means of
    promoting sustainability of urban services
    c. Support government's decentralization programme and thereby promote efficiency in service
    delivery.

2.2     These objectives were to be attained through the implementation of two main components,
namely (i) rehabilitation and upgrading of infrastructure and urban services, including markets, lorry
parks, roads, storm drains, solid and liquid waste disposal, provision of waste collection equipment, and
matching grants for household latrine construction; and (ii) strengthening the capacity of 11 participating
DAs to plan, finance and manage urban services through technical assistance, training, equipment,
vehicles and operational support.

3.      Extent of Achievement of Project Objectives

3.1     Rehabilitation and upgrading of Infrastructure
        The rehabilitation and upgrading of infrastructure was generally successfully implemented,
despite the longer than expected completion periods. Specific achievements and constraints are
summarised below:




                                                    - 19 -

       Component & Objective                            Outcomes                                    Achievement

  (i) Rehabilitation of roads and      A total of 57.6 km of town roads were        The objective of the component was
  Storm water drainage to improve      reconstructed in 10 towns, against an        satisfactorily achieved. However the impact
  key    road    segments,     traffic original target of 77.8 km in 12 towns.      was often limited because of limited budget.
  management and circulation           Proposed works in Keta was cancelled.        Road works tend to be much more
                                       About 4.2km of storm drains were also        expensive than other municipal services,
                                       reconstructed in 4 towns to alleviate        therefore the impact of road works tend to
                                       flooding, against a target of 3.2km. Scope   be limited if substantial funding is not
                                       of works was increased in Wa and             provided.. In some towns, the impact of the
                                       Techiman.                                    road works on the total road network in the
                                                                                    town was quite marginal.

  (ii) Rehabilitation and expansion    11 existing markets were provided with       The objective of the component was
  of basic infrastructure in Markets   drains, paving of open areas, toilet         satisfactorily   achieved.  However,     the
  and transport terminals to support   facilities and some security lighting. Two   original "project concept"   - where basic
  economic activity and improve        new Markets and lorry parks were             infrastructure alone was to be provided
  the financial position of the        constructed in Anloga and Elmina. A late     whilst the beneficiary district were to
  beneficiary district assemblies.     decision was taken to allow the provision    provide market sheds- did not give the
                                       of a limited number of market sheds in 4     desired impact.      In several cases, the
                                       towns.                                       beneficiaries were unable to provide all the
                                                                                    sheds    as   expected,  thus  significantly
                                                                                    reducing the impact of the investment made.
                                                                                    There were also delays on the part of
                                                                                    contractors in completing the works on
                                                                                    schedule worsened the situation for nearly 3
                                                                                    years.

  (iii) Improve solid and liquid       12 towns have acquired disposal sites        This component was the most satisfactory
  waste collection and disposal        which have been fenced off and provided      of all the infrastructure subcomponents,
  systems to enhance the urban         with ditches for liquid waste disposal. The  despite problems encountered with siting
  environment and promote health       plan to provide engineered sanitary landfill and management of the completed facilities.
  and productivity of residents        sites did not materialise due to budgetary   Solid and liquid waste collection and
                                       constraints. Instead, simple control dump    disposal has improved significantly in 10
                                       sites were provided for solid waste          out of 12 towns.
                                       disposal,   whilst   open    ditches  were
                                       constructed for liquid waste disposal.

                                       193    skip   pads,   skip  trucks,   waste
                                       containers and other equipment supplied to
                                       all 11 DAs


3.2       Strengthening District Financial and Technical Capacity
          The four subcomponents designed to achieve this objective were only marginally successful.
This may not be surprising as institutional reforms are generally more difficult to accomplish than
infrastructure rehabilitation.




                                                                    - 20 -

        Component & Objective                               Outcomes                                        Achievement

  (i)  Improving     the    management    Modest progress was made, with the          The objective of this component was only marginally
  capacity of 11 district assemblies      assistance of Zonal Officers, in assisting  achieved. The component faced serious challenges both
  through (a) district reorganization     with the promotion of management team       at the national and local levels which limited its impact.
  (b) improved local policy and           building. The pilot use of personal         Not much was achieved in the area of district
  legislative oversight (c) management    services contract got off to a late start,  reorganisation and improved local policy and legislative
  team building (d) pilot use of          with one planning officer and one           oversight The 1996 general elections and frequent
  personal services contracts             engineer for each of 11 DAs from April      changes in political leadership at the districts affected
                                          1998 to Dec. 2001. Finance officers         the ownership and commitment of new officials to the
                                          turned down the offer of monthly            project concept. In fairness to the DAs however, some of
                                          remuneration of US$1,000.        The only   the concepts themselves did not take account of local
                                          finance officer who accepted the offer      situation and were difficult to implement. For example
                                          resigned after one year.                    the pilot use of personal services contracts created
                                                                                      institutional problems in most districts.

  (ii) Strengthening the capacity of      Equipment,       vehicles,  training  and   The provision of equipment and appropriate training for
  central government agencies - LVB,      operational support were provided for       central government agency staff (where there are
  T&CP, SD, TSC, MLGRD to                 these    institutions  to  enhance   their  trainable staff) should be pursued as a means of building
  support the appropriate activities of   institutional capacity.                     the capacity of such agencies. Technical assistance
  those district assemblies. This was to                                              support however had mixed results. Whilst some
  be achieved through the provision of                                                budgets were not utilised at all  e.g, TSC for MIS,
  equipment,       vehicles,    training,                                             MLGRD for Policy Review, and LVB for property
  technical assistance and operational                                                revaluation, others were utilised quite late in the project
  support.                                                                            period, thus minimising their impact.

  (iii)   Improved     availability    of 700sq km of land area in 12 towns           The use of the maps for the intended purpose has been
  information for urban planning,         mapped.                                     limited. In relation to the objective of improving
  infrastructure    programming      and                                              availability of information, the objectives were met.
  revenue mobilization through aerial                                                 However a lot of concern has been raised about the
  photography and digital mapping.                                                    adequacy of the maps for Urban planning and
                                                                                      infrastructure programming since only built up areas of
                                                                                      the towns were covered by the exercise, making them
                                                                                      useful for revenue mobilization but inadequate for Urban
                                                                                      planning.

  (iv) Provision of a comprehensive       About     125,043     rateable   properties The assumption that revalued properties would result in
  register of rateable properties in each revalued by LVB and valuation rolls         increased     revenues     turned    out    to    be    an
  of the 11 towns to enhance existing     submitted to DAs.                           oversimplification of the issues. A better appreciation of
  revenue sources                                                                     all other factors affecting property rating at the District
                                                                                      level would help improve the impact of the component


4.                     Significant Outcomes and Impacts

4.1        The most significant outcomes and Impacts made under the infrastructure upgrading component
include the following
     a. Provision of final disposal sites acceptable to the community for both solid and liquid waste
     management
     b. Provision of about 5,968 household sanitation facilities benefiting an estimated 135,807 people
     c. Provision of waste management and waste collection equipment for DAs in support of waste
     collection services.
     d. Construction of new markets at Elmina and Anloga

4.2        With regard to the institutional strengthening component, the following outcomes were significant
     a. Training provided to DA staff
     b. Vehicles and equipment to support DAs and Other agencies.
     c. Provision of digital maps for 12 towns.

5.         Prospects for Project Sustain ability

5.1        The probability of maintaining the achievements generated from the project in relation to its
objectives vary from component to component. It is highest for the waste management component, and
lowest for the institutional strengthening/capacity building component.




                                                                      - 21 -

5.2      One of the major problems phasing emerging Urban Towns in Ghana is the difficulty
encountered with land acquisition for waste disposal. The project has enabled the 12 town acquire
designated sites for waste disposal, thus enabling them plan future development appropriately.

5.3      It is unlikely that the achievements generated by the three most significant outcomes of the
institutional strengthening component can be maintained in view of budgetary constraints within most
sectors.

6.       Bank/Borrower performance

         The Bank provided useful support through regular supervision missions. The Bank should
however take note of the concerns raised under section 7 below. The Ministry and its implementing
agencies also performed satisfactorily in meeting compliance with reporting and audits.

7.       Lessons Learned from implementation
7.1      A number of issues directly or indirectly affected the outcome of the project. These can be
         classified under the following headings:

         (a)       Project Preparation: Several of the problems encountered during implementation,
         particularly in relation to the infrastructure development, could be attributed to inadequate time
         and resources spent on project preparation activities. Detail engineering was rushed to meet
         tight credit processing schedules. This should be avoided in future.

         (b)       Limited Institutional capacity: Most staff within implementing agencies tend to be
         preoccupied with their normal day to day activities, and do not have the motivation and
         incentives to adequately focus on project preparation and implementation. Consequently, several
         important decisions have had to be taken without the involvement of these agencies. Incentives
         must be created for staff to show commitment to programmes.

         (c)       Ownership: Although DAs and agencies are encouraged to comment and/or confirm
         agreement with proposed interventions, the funding agencies decisions tend to override those of
         the DAs and agencies. This creates the wrong notion right at the outset that the project is owned
         by the funding agency, and not the beneficiary. For example, the Ministry had raised issues
         likely to affect the proposed pilot recruitment of Personal Services Contract Staff, but this was
         overlooked until its implementation faced difficulty.

         (d)       Procurement Processes: The time taken for bid documents to be prepared, and bids to
         be evaluated are the main causes of delays, and not the procurement process per se.
         Therefore, advanced planning needs to be encouraged while approval processes are expedited.

         (e)       Consultant and Contractor's Performance: This is by far the most important factor
         that affected the infrastructure development component. Contracts for rehabilitation of basic
         facilities such as public toilets in some towns, took more than three times the original contract
         period to be completed. The poor performance of contractors created problems for supervision
         consultancy services, whose fees had been fixed.

(b) Cofinanciers:
KfW participated in the project through the construction and rehabilitation of markets and lorry parks,
including market sheds. The principal lessons learned during the implementation of the KfW-assisted
Second Towns Project are as follows:

1. Provision of Market Superstructures. In many cases the beneficiaries' failure to provide market
superstructures, as required by the project, proved to be an obstacle to the prompt re-opening of the
rehabilitated markets and subsequent revenue collection. In future projects, the provision of market
superstructures should form part of the rehabilitation or upgrading of markets. This would not only be



                                                       - 22 -

advantageous from a technical point of view (coordinated design of market infrastructure and
superstructures, clear contractual responsibilities, no-limit-of-contract problems, erection of
superstructures before paving and drainage works, etc.,) but would also result in the handing over of a
completed market within a contractually stipulated time.

2. Relocation of Market Traders. The large-scale relocation of market traders followed by the demolition
of the existing market superstructure should be avoided wherever possible. Since location is of great
importance to traders, they usually agree only to return to a completed market after relocation, either
renovated or new. Failure to construct the required market superstructures in time puts the achievement
of the project objective into jeopardy.

3. Rehabilitation of Markets and Lorry Parks While in Use. The rehabilitation of existing markets and
lorry parks while trading and lorry park activities continue causes considerable inconvenience to the
public, traders and drivers, as well as to contractors, and leads to increased construction costs and
longer contract periods. But these disadvantages pale in comparison with the provision of a better
public service and of creating revenues for the assemblies, and the rehabilitation works should therefore
be carried out while the respective facilities are in use wherever possible.

4. Market Stalls Allocation Plans. Allocation plans for the market superstructures to be used by the
various traders should be prepared by the Assemblies during the design phase and in close cooperation
with the design consultant. This would help the collection of subscription fees of interested traders and
would avoid the construction of unsuitable superstructures. The subscription fees and monthly dues
should be used to finance part of the construction of the superstructures and should be considered part of
the GoG financial contribution to the project.

5. Paving of Lorry Parks. Lorry parks should be paved with concrete blocks. Only under exceptional
circumstances should small lorry parks with a light traffic load be sealed with a bituminous
double-surface dressing.

6. Project Implementation. The pooling of two to three project towns into one geographically defined
zone, served by one design consultant, proved to be adequate for some zones. For others, where there
were great distances between the project towns, it was difficult for one consultant to cover all the towns
in the area, especially in the North. For future projects, it is recommended to assign one supervision
consultant for each project town.

7. Project Design. All markets and lorry parks should have well-defined entries and exists. This is best
achieved by the provision of lockable stores along the periphery of these facilities and the installation of
gates. Bathhouses are generally not much utilized. They should only be provided where there is an
explicit demand from market users. Refuse collection facilities provided by the Project are also used
inadequately. It is recommended that they be placed centrally within the markets, equipped with
containers and provide clearly defined access roads be provided for easy refuse removal.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of DAs without additional refuse   11                              9
accumulation outside designated areas
2. Number of DAs in which at least 90% of    11                              11
refuse collection equipment is functional
3. Number of DAs without flooding on         11                              11
improved or rehabilitated roads adjacent to
markets and lorry parks
4. Number of DAs without flooding in         11                              11
markets and lorry parks
5. Number of DAs in which market revenues 11                                 7
increased by at least 30% in 3 years.
6. Number of DAs in which internal revenue 11                                11
generation increased by at least 10% in real
terms


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of final waste disposal sites      11                              11
rehabilitated or constructed (solid combined
with liquid)
2. Number of public toilets rehabilitated or 277                             206
constructed
3. Number of domestic toilets constructed    2,700                           5,968
4. Kilometers of roads with drains improved  73.8                            57.6
or rehabilitated
5. Number of markets combined with lorry     12                              14
parks improved and provided with public
toilets and security lights
6. Number of properties re-evaluated         74,300                          125,043
7. Number of DAs in which a billing and      11                              11
collection system based on the new rolls for
property tax was introduced
8. Digital maps produced for number of       300                             700
square km at 1:2,500 scale
9. Number of DAs in which training was       11                              11
provided according to their annual training
plan

1End of project




                                                          - 24 -

                                                 STATUS OF CIVIL WORKS IN THE PROJECT TOWNS

                        Roads(km)         Markets & Lorry        Refuse Collection        Street Lights        Public Toilets (No.) Household Toilets (No.)     Property Revaluation
                                              Parks (ha.)           Points (No.)               (No.)                                                                    (No.)


                   Target      Actual    Target      Actual    Target     Actual      Target      Actual      Target     Actual       Target      Actual      Target       Actual

Sunyani                  10.6       14.1          4         4.5        20          19          72          75         20           11       185            763     14,250       20,868

Ho                         6.4       4.1       1.55         2.5         0          25          14         260          9           11       410            549      7,700        6,832

Keta/Anloga                4.1       7.2        0.2         5.6        10          10          27         176         30           24       410            317      6,600       10,651

Koforidua                  4.8       2.5       1.75         2.5        25          25          50         105         27           18       307          1,520      8,700       11,845

Agona Swedru             6.08        6.1       0.63           1         0          10          20          60          9            9        83            651      3,350       10,600

Wa                         3.5       1.7       1.36         3.2        25          15          28          40         34           23       122            129      3,150        5,971

Cape Coast                 3.5       3.3        2.5         2.1        25          24          38         125         42           24       410            451     12,650       13,711

Elmina                       4       4.3          1         2.2         0          10          15          80         17           16       205            385      4,000       10,320

Bolgatanga                 9.2       2.4        2.2         2.8        20          25          36         135         35           26       245            344      5,200       10,555

Bawku                    13.7        5.7          3         6.1         0          10          70          45         35           30       122            236      4,400        5,340

Techiman                     8       6.2        9.6         10          0          20         133          95         19           14       201            623      4,300       18,350

Total                   73.88       57.6     27.79         42.5      125          193         503       1196         277         206      2,700          5,968     74,300       125,043

                                                 DISTRIBUTION OF WASTE MANAGEMENT EQUIPMENT IN THE DAs


                            Bulldozer          Skip Loaders      Cesspit Emptiers (No.) Tractors          (No.) Roll-on/Roll-off Trucks    Trailers (No.)      Containers (No.)
                              (No.)                 (No.)                                                               (No.)


                     Target     Actual    Target      Actual     Target     Actual      Target      Actual      Target     Actual      Target    Actual      Target   Actual

Sunyani                        1        1           2          3          2           2           0           0         0            0         0           0        21         31

Ho                             1        1           2          3          2           2           0           0         0            0         0           0        21         31

Keta/Anloga                    1        1           0          0          2           2           3           3         2            2       18           18        10         10

Koforidua                      1        1           2          3          3           3           0           0         2            2         0           0        45         73

Agona Swedru                   1        1           0          2          1           2           3           3         0            0       18           18         0         20

Wa                             1        1           1          3          1           2           0           0         0            0         0           0        18         38

Cape Coast                     1        1           1          2          1           1           0           0         0            0         0           0        29         39

Elmina                         1        1           0          2          1           2           2           2         0            0       10           10         0         20

Bolgatanga                     1        1           2          3          2           4           0           0         0            0         0           0        26         23

Bawku                          1        1           0          1          1           2           3           3         0            0       18           18         0         10

Techiman                       1        1           0          1          1           2           3           0         0            2       18            0         0         20

Total                        11        11         10          23         17         24          14          11          4            6       82           64       170        315



Total containers delivered include: Open containers (241); Covered containers (8); Night soil containers (30) and

Roll-on/Roll-off containers (36)




                                                                              - 25 -

                                Table 1. TOTAL INTERNAL REVENUES, 1997 - 2002
                                          In constant prices (December 2002), million Cedis
                                                                                                 Annual     Annual     Change in
District                                                                   Total     Change
               1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002                            Average     Average      Annual
Assembly                                                                 1997-2002 1997-2002
                                                                                                 1997-99    2000-02     Average
Sunyani           730       913     1,094       831       952    1,328        5,848       82%         912       1,037        14%
Ho                518       847     1,070       995     1,592    1,356        6,378      162%         812       1,314        62%

Keta/ Anloga      378       506      455        292       435      494        2,560       31%         446         407        -9%

Koforidua         844     1,210     1,254    1,470        843    3,176        8,798      276%       1,103       1,830        66%
Agona
                  396       704      860        645       937      964        4,507      143%         654         849        30%
Swedru
Wa                482       418      423        575       569      990        3,458      105%         441         711        61%

Cape Coast        500       561      680        685     1,341    1,763        5,530      253%         580       1,263      118%

Elmina            267       524      390        528       504      375        2,588       41%         393         469        19%
Bolgatanga        479       440      443     1,066      3,204    3,709        9,341      674%         454       2,660      486%
Bawku             746     1,045     1,084       818       778      966        5,436       30%         958         854       -11%
Techiman        1,077     1,298     1,744    1,759      1,806    2,110        9,796       96%       1,373       1,892        38%
Total           6,418     8,466     9,498    9,666     12,962   17,231      64,240       168%       8,127      13,286        63%
CPI             38.7      45.6      50.9      71.6       86.8   100.0

CPI = Consumer Price Index (December 2002 = 100)
Note: The annual average is calculated over 3 years at a time, one average for 1997-1999 and another for 2000-2002, to show the
difference between the revenue improvement implementation phase of the project and the period, when the revenue collection was
expected to improve. The last column contains the % change in these two values.



                               Table 2. PROPERTY RATES , 1997 - 2002
                                  In constant prices (December 2002), million Cedis

                                                                                              Annual      Annual     Change in
District                                                                 Total     Change
               1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002                             Average     Average      Annual
Assembly                                                             1997-2002 1997-2002
                                                                                              1997-99     2000-02     Average

Sunyani           171     156       145      106       107       384       1,069       125%         157         199        27%
Ho                  8       11       20      571       328       289       1,227      3614%          13         396      2948%

Keta/ Anloga        4        4        5         2        2        69           86     1563%           4          24       446%

Koforidua          18       22       33      202       170     1,860       2,305     10161%          24         744      2972%
Agona
                   23       60       84      111       110       229         617       906%          56         150       170%
Swedru
Wa                 88       93       32       25        80       464         781       428%          71         190       168%
Cape Coast         26       38       75       98       289       304         831      1075%          46         231       396%
Elmina            104     121        64      110        61       129         589        25%          96         100         4%
Bolgatanga         11       11        9       59        56       740         886      6390%          10         285      2642%
Bawku              13       15       18       15         6        17           84       30%          15          13       -18%
Techiman          n/a      n/a      n/a       89        78       107          n/a        n/a        n/a          91         n/a
Total             465     531       484    1,389     1,287     4,592       8,748       887%         493       2,331       372%
Share             7%      6%       5%      14%       10%       27%          14%                     6%        18%

Share = Property Rates as a proportion of Total Internal Revenues for all DAs combined
n/a Data not available




                                                             - 26 -

                              Table 3. MARKET REVENUES, 1997 - 2002
                                  In constant prices (December 2002), million Cedis
                                                                                                 Annual   Annual  Change in
District                                                               Total       Change
               1997    1998      1999      2000     2001    2002                                Average   Average  Annual
Assembly                                                           1997-2002 1997-2002
                                                                                                 1997-99  2000-02 Average
Sunyani          107       171       232      214      221     206         1,150         92%          170      213    26%
Ho               109       140       146      169      216     197           976         82%          131      194    48%

Keta/ Anloga     124       135       144       98      108     121           730          -2%         134      109   -19%

Koforidua        109       140       146      627      228     171         1,420         58%          131      342   160%
Agona
                   88      203       165      118      149     172           893         96%          152      146    -4%
Swedru
Wa                 41      122        36       45       44      72           360         76%           66       54   -19%
Cape Coast         29       61        68       67      114     176           516        503%           53      119   126%
Elmina             53       39        46       44       37      51           270          -3%          46       44    -4%
Bolgatanga         83       88       237       73       77      56           614         -32%         136       69   -49%
Bawku            109       139       146      120       93      91           698         -16%         131      101   -23%
Techiman         564       805    1,293     1,314    1,131   1,608         4,774        639%          414    1,177   184%
Total           1,413    2,044    2,658     2,889    2,417   2,922        14,343        107%        2,038    2,743    35%
Share           22%      24%       28%       30%     19%     17%           22%                       25%      21%

Share = Property Rates as a proportion of Total Internal Revenues for all DAs combined



         Table 4. TOTAL INTERNAL REVENUES - PROJECTED vs. ACTUAL
                             In constant prices (December 2002), million Cedis
District          1997              1998              1999            2000                   Total
Assembly
                P       A         P        A       P       A       P         A        P        A       D
Sunyani          276     730      270       913      277  1,094     229       831      822     2,737   233%
Ho               231     518      227       847      235  1,070     195       995      693     2,435   252%
Keta/
                 302     378      332       506      384    455     357       292    1,018     1,339    32%
Anloga
Koforidua        764     844      833     1,210      955  1,254     882     1,470    2,552     3,309    30%
Agona
                 370     396      402       704      462    860     429       645    1,234     1,961    59%
Swedru
Wa               146     482      145       418      152    423     128       575      443     1,323   199%

Cape Coast       281     332      282       561      298    680     255       685      861     1,573    83%

Elmina           180     267      189       524      208    390     185       528      577     1,180   105%
Bolgatanga       264     479      249       440      249    443     200     1,066      762     1,362    79%
Bawku            482     746      215     1,045      220  1,084     184       818      917     2,875   214%
Techiman         546   1,077      547     1,298      578  1,744     492     1,759    1,671     4,120   147%
Total          3,844   6,250    5,309     8,466    4,016  9,498   3,534     9,666 13,169 24,213         84%
P Projected, A Actual, D Difference
Note: The assumed inflation rate for the projections was 10% per year. The actual inflation rate was much
higher, about 30% per year from 1993 (the base year) to 2000, causing the forecasts to be underestimated.




                                                             - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Rehabilitation and upgrading of urban infrastructure and      35.69           38.00             64
services

Institutional strengthening                                    7.74           11.98             14
Incremental recurrent costs                                    5.21             2.30             9

Total Baseline Cost                                           48.64           52.28
 Physical Contingencies                                        3.48                              6
 Price Contingencies                                           3.40                              6
                          Total Project Costs                 55.52           52.28
                    Total Financing Required                  55.52           52.28


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                           10.79             15.82         0.00          7.94       34.55
                                  (10.12)           (12.22)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (22.34)
2. Goods                            6.60              0.43         0.35          0.00        7.38
                                   (6.50)            (0.42)      (0.34)          (0.00)     (7.26)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00         9.41          0.64       10.05
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (7.45)          (0.00)     (7.45)
4. Operating and                    0.00              0.00         3.53          0.00        3.53
Maintenance
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.46)          (0.00)     (1.46)
   Total                           17.39             16.25        13.29          8.58       55.51
                                  (16.62)           (12.64)      (9.25)          (0.00)     (38.51)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            9.02             14.98        0.00           9.14      33.14
                                   (8.07)           (12.23)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (20.30)
2. Goods                            6.19             0.40         0.35           0.00       6.94
                                   (5.92)            (0.20)      (0.20)         (0.00)     (6.32)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         9.41           1.02      10.43
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (9.40)         (0.00)     (9.40)
4. Operating and                    0.00             0.00         1.77           0.00       1.77
Maintenance



                                                  - 28 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.84)            (0.00)           (0.84)
       Total                                15.21             15.38             11.53             10.16            52.28
                                           (13.99)           (12.43)           (10.44)            (0.00)           (36.86)
   NBF- KfW financed $9.14 million on market and lorry parks; and Works (NCB) beneficiary household
   financed $1.41 million of the Household Toilet scheme.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Rehabilitation and             18.07         2.70         7.70       19.19         1.95       7.71       106.2     72.2    100.1
Upgrading


Institutional Strengthening    15.68         0.78         0.60       15.40         0.08       1.34       98.2      10.3    223.3
Operating and                   1.46         2.07                     0.54         0.83                  37.0      40.1
Maintenance




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The SAR estimated the economic viability of the project by calculating the EIRR of 14 Road
Rehabilitation Activities, 3 Market Interventions, and two each of the Solid Waste and Liquid Waste
Management Activities. The ex-post economic evaluation of the project covers the roads and drains
investments. A total of 56km was constructed compared to the SAR estimate of 73.9km. The economic
analysis is based on re-evaluation of the data on traffic, costs and benefits of sample project
components.

The Model used is RTIM2. The methodology used in the re-evaluation is similar to the SAR.

The capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect January 2003 and are included in
the cost stream. The benefits consist of Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) savings. The project economic
life of 25 years is assumed and the capital investment period for all projects ranged from June 1996 to
December 2002.

Economic Evaluation of Roads

Sample Roads used in pre- and post-construction EIRR estimates
Road sections                      Length in km             Reconstructed
                                   Existing                 km

LIBRARY ROAD                      0.79                      0.79
DARPORTIDONGO ROAD                0.82                      0.82
STADIUM ROAD                      0.69                      0.69
TANO ROAD                         1.43                      1.43
BAMIRI ROAD                       1.78                      1.78
GYARKO ROAD                       0.89                      0.89
MARKET STREET                     1.20                      1.20
AHMADIYA ROAD                     0.89                      0.89
LITTLE WOOD ROAD                  4.20                      4.20
CMB JUNCTION                      1.90                      1.90
SHELL ROAD                        1.03                      1.03
MANKESIM ROAD                     0.94                      0.94
NSAWAM ROAD                       1.86                      1.86

Economic Cost

Economic costs were mainly discounted capital cost of the intervention, routine and periodic
maintenance costs, appropriately shadow priced (factor: 0.93) to remove distortions introduced by such
impositions as custom duties and taxes.

Traffic Projection

Traffic data was collected for each road. Traffic is assumed to grow at an average rate of 2%. For each
road, the traffic for year of completion is summarized below.




                                                    - 30 -

SAR
Road Section                                         Traffic Year of Completion
                                                     (YC)
LIBRARY ROAD                                         3220
DARPORTIDONGO ROAD                                   2320
STADIUM ROAD                                         5888
TANO ROAD                                            16,128
BAMIRI ROAD                                          2,576
GYARKO ROAD                                          8768
MARKET STREET                                        13648
AHMADIYA ROAD                                        8080
LITTLE WOOD ROAD                                     18480
CMB JUNCTION                                         1376
SHELL ROAD                                           6688
MANKESIM ROAD                                        9792
NSAWAM ROAD                                          5072

Economic benefits
Economic benefits were expressed in terms of the monetary value of the annual road user savings
resulting from VOC savings due to improved surface and traffic flows. Benefits accruing from saving in
peak traffic volumes were included in the analysis, which was run using a VOC sub model of the RTIM2.

Vehicles         Car (1)  Pickup (2)    Mammy/Wago Buses          Light Axle Medium Heavy
                                        n                                      Axle      Axle
WITHOUT
CONGESTION
GOOD             0.14     0.14          0.21             0.35     0.37         0.53      0.89
FAIR             0.17     0.17          0.26             0.37     0.44         0.65      1.02
POOR             0.35     0.40          0.47             0.71     0.96         1.16      2.05
WITH
CONGESTION
FAIR             0.32     0.33          0.39             0.60     0.80         0.96      1.71
POOR             0.46     0.53          0.62             0.95     1.27         1.54      2.73




                                                  - 31 -

Economic Evaluation
The weighted EIRR of the sample roads is estimated to be 68% well above the 15% requirement
stipulated for the projects in the sector. The result also compare favorably with the corresponding figures
of 84% overall weighted EIRR for the roads and drainage component as given in the SAR. The main
reason for the variation was due to significant cost increase as is evidenced below.

                                 ERR AT PROJECT                         ERR AT PROJECT
                               APPRAISAL                              COMPLETION

   ROAD NAME                        COST         ERR         AADT       COST     ERR %

                                   000'US$        %                    000'US$      %




   LIBRARY ROAD                     240          78.91        3200      642.2      20%

   DARPORTIDONGO ROAD               200          77.01        2320      667.0      15%

   STADIUM ROAD                     230          50.8         5888      561.0      33%

   TANO ROAD                        552          49.62       16128      336.0     177%

   BAMIRI ROAD                      690          49.08        2576      418.3      47%

   GYARKO ROAD                      345          78.2         8768      209.0     112%

   MARKET STREET                    460         162.42       13648      282.0     107%

   AHMADIYA ROAD                    345          62.17        8080      209.0     105%

   LITTLE WOOD ROAD                 690          67.57       18480      1985.0     79%

   CMB JUNCTION                     253          39.11        1376      447.0      47%

   SHELL ROAD                       230          93.77        6688      242.0      93%

   MANKESIM ROAD                    460         163.52        9792       221      111%

   NSAWAM ROAD                      455         105.41        5072       437       68%




   TOTAL & WEIGHTED AVG             5150          84                    6657       68


Sensitivity Analysis

A sensitivity analysis was carried out using changing assumptions about the benefits and costs. With 50%
decrease in benefits and 50% increase in costs, the EIRR estimates indicate the EIRR estimates are greater
than the minimum requirement of 15% for such projects. The results shown below, give an indication of a
very robust program with considerable benefits of the economy in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs,
representing some 80% savings in cost of items for which the country is a net importer.




                                                     - 32 -

                      ERR AT
                    PROJECT
                    APPRAISAL                      ERR AT PROJECT COMPLETION

                                 ZERO
                                TRAFFIC
ROAD NAME           EIRR %       (Base) 50% DECREASE    50% INCREASE

                           %    GROWTH IN BENEFITS      IN COSTS

                                 EIRR %      ALONE                  ALONE

                                             EIRR %                 EIRR %

LIBRARY ROAD              20%     19%         10%                    13%

DARPORTIDONGO ROAD        15%     14%          7%                    10%

STADIUM ROAD              33%     32%         18%                    23%

TANO ROAD                177%    176%        111%                    134%

BAMIRI ROAD               47%     45%         27%                    33%

GYARKO ROAD              112%    110%         69%                    83%

MARKET STREET            107%     88%         69%                    82%

AHMADIYA ROAD            105%    103%         65%                    78%

LITTLE WOOD ROAD          79%     75%         46%                    57%

CMB JUNCTION              47%     61%         22%                    30%

SHELL ROAD                93%     91%         56%                    68%

MANKESIM ROAD            111%    106%         69%                    83%

NSAWAM ROAD               68%     62%         41%                    50%




TOTAL & WEIGHTED AVG      68       65          40                     49




                                          - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1992             2    TL (1); Financial Analyst (1)
              December 1992             4    Fin. Analyst (1); Engineer (2);
                                             Valuation Specialist (1)
              March/April 1993        10     Sr. Urban Fin. Spec. (1); Urban
                                             Planner (1); Pr. Institutional Dev
                                             Spec. (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                                             Engineer (1); Mun Engineer (1);
                                             Mun. Fin. Spec. (1); Fin. Analyst
                                             (1); Sr. Training Spec. (1); Econ.
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June/July 1993            8    Sr. Urb. Fin. Spec. (1); Urb.
                                             Planner (1); Pr. Inst. Dev.
                                             Spec. (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                                             Eng. (1); Mun. Eng. (1);
                                             Mun. Fin. Spec. (1); Fin.
                                             Anal. (1)
              11/29/1993                     Negotiations

 Supervision
              05/14/1995                2    Civil Eng. (1); Sr. Urb Fin.           S               S
                                             Spec. (1)
              09/27/1995                3    Civil Eng. (1); Sr. Urban Fin.         S               S
                                             Spec. (1); Rating Valuation (1)
              01/31/1996                2    Civil Eng. (1); Sr. Urban Fin.         S               S
                                             Spec. (1)
              06/27/1996                4    TL (1); Rating Expert (1);             S               S
                                             Training Con (1); Civil Eng. (1)


              6/27/1997                 5    TL (1); Infra. Eng. (1); KfW           S               S
                                             Cons. (1); Rating Valuation
                                             Cons. (1); Training Cons. (1)
              03/01/1998                3    TL (1); Civil Eng. (1); Training       S               S
                                             Spec. (1)
              11/11/1998                2    TL (1); Municipal Engineer (1)         S               S
              04/06/1999                4    TL (1); Public Sector Mgmnt (1);       S               S
                                             Mun. Eng. (1); Training Con. (1)
              10/13/1999                2    Team Leader (1); Engineer (1)          S               S
              05/31/2000                8    Sr. Urban Fin. Spec. (1); TL (1);      S               S
                                             Pr. Mun Eng. (1); Fin. Analyst
                                             (1); Transp. Spec (1); Consultant
                                             (2); Team Assist (1)
              1/19/2001                 5    TL (1); Urban Fin. (1); Mun.           S               S
                                             Eng. (1); San. Eng. (1);Trng
                                             Cons. (1)



                                              - 34 -

               10/19/2001              7   TL (1); Urban Fin. (1); Mun.         S    S
                                           Eng. (1); San. Eng. (1); Rating
                                           Cons. (1); Trng Cons. (1); Team
                                           Asst. (1)
               04/17/2002              8   TL (1); Urban Fin. (1); Mun.         S    S
                                           Eng. (1); Transport (1); Proc (1);
                                           Trng (1); Fin. Man (1); Team
                                           Assist. (1)
               09/13/2002              6   TL (1); Mun. Eng. (1); Urban         S    S
                                           Fin. Spec. (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                                           Fin. Mgmnt. Spec. (1); Team
                                           Assist (1)

 ICR
               08/04/2003             4     TL (1); Sr. Urban Dev.
                                            Spec. (1); Mun. Engineering
                                            - Consultant (1); Team
                                            Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                      384,474.83
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                     407,305.28
  ICR                                                               21,800.82
  Total                                                           806,235.45




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. LGDP ICR Aide Memoire - August 2003
2. Private sector participation in the Management of solid waste systems in 4 DAs (2003)
3. Technical and Financial Audit of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) fund (2003)
4. Computerization of Budgeting and Accounting system in 4 pilot DAs (2003)
5. Technical and Financial Audit of Domestic (Household) toilet scheme (2002)
6. Land Use Planning and Development Guidance (2003)
7. Consultancy Services for 25 urban towns under the proposed Urban V project (1999)
8. Digital Mapping of 11 LGDP urban towns (1999)
9. Revenue Improvement Action plan (RIAP) (General and Specific for 12 towns) (1995)
10. Training needs and Training Institutions Assessment report (1995)




                                                - 38 -

- 39 -

