Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12332-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNmENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 18, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12332 GH
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a resticted dishibution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their offcicl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed wthout World Bank authoizaion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =      Cedis (C)
US$1.00        -      Cedis 705
C1.00         =      US$0.00142
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP           Accra District Rehabilitation Project
DA             District Assembly
DFR            Department of Feeder Roads
DUR            Department of Urban Roads
ECG            Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EPC            Environmental Protection Council
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
5HA            Ghana Highway Authority
GIMPA          Ghana Institute of Management & Public Administration
GOG            Government of Ghana
GWSC           Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LGDP           Local Government Development Project
LGTI           Local Government Training Institute
LVB            Land Valuation Board
MFEP           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLGRD          Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MLF            Ministry of Lands and Forestry
MWH            Ministry of Works aad Housing
NDPC           National Development Planning Commission
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
OHCS           Office of the Head of the Civil Service
OJT            On-the-job Training
PAMSCAD        Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Cost of
Adjustment
PNDC           Provisional National Defence Council
PWP            Priority Works Project
RIAP           Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SD             Survey Department
SOE            Statement of Expenses
TA             Technical Assistance
TCPD           Town and Country Planning Department
TOR            Terms of Reference
TSC            Technical Services Center
TSU            Training Support Unit
UNDP           United National Development P.ogram
UST            University of Science and Technology (Kumasi)
FISCAL YEAR
January 01     -      December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNM-ENr DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTINS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................... i
1. INTRODUCTlON   ..............................................                                       1
A.      Background ..........................................                                  1
B.      SectorStrategy ........................................                                6
H. THEPROJE            .................................................9
A.      Project Objectives ........................................   9
B.      Project Description  ........................................  9
C.      Project Cost and Financing Plan ............            ...................   15
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............                         ........................   18
A.      Institutional Framework  ............            ........................   18
B.      Operational Plans and Manuals .........             .......................  19
C.      Procurement Arrangements ...........               .......................   19
D.      Disbursement ...........................................  22
E.      Accounting and Auditing ............             ........................  23
F.      Reporting, Monitoring and Review  .............................  23
TV. JUSTIFCATION, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .................. 24
A.      General Benefits .........................................   24
B.   Economic Evaluation ...................  25
C.  PovertyImpact ...................  26
D.   EnvironmentalImpact ...................  26
E.  Project Risks ...................  27
This report is based on the fdings  of World Bank pro-pisal and appraisal m       that visited  ana il
Marh/April 1993 and June/July 1993 respectively. These missions compised Mesus. Jagdish Bal (Senior
Urban Fiane Speciait and Mission Lder), Alan Carrol (UJrban Planner), Jerry Silvermn (Princal
Imstiuonl Developmet Spel), Francesco Sam  (Pruemn Specialit), Godfrey Ewool (Eiee), Chri
Boes (Coundtmt, Muncipal Enginer), Ian Wethedll (Consultant, Municipal Finanoe Speciadist), and  ichard
James (Consultant, Financial Analyst). Messrs. Steve Berkman (Senior Train  Specialist) and Hermdo Oarzon
(Consultant, Economist) paticipated in the pro-paial. Mr. William Dillinger was the peer reviewer. Mrs.
Bauba Baboa-Machado provided producttan support. The responsible managers are Mr. Ja    Wright,
Din  Chief, and Mr. Edwm Lim, Deartnt Director.
This document hss a mtrcted distribudon and may be used by reciplonts only In the performance"
of thdr officia dudies. Its contents may not otherwis be diclosed without Wotid llak authorizaon.|



V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOM?MENDATION  ............................. 28
ANNEXES
1.    Proffiles of Project Cides
2.    Ifrastructure RehabRiltation and Envirowmental Systems Improvements
3.    Opeation and Maintenance
4.    Enmnena Assessment
S.    District Assembly Finances
6.    Property Reauation
7.    Land Use Planning and Development Guidance
S.    Mapping Component
9.    Insdtttional Strengthening and Capacity Building
10.   Trainin
11.   Implementation Arrangements
12.   Action Plan to Project Effectiveness
13.   Procurement
14.   Disbursement Schedule
15.   Technical Assistance
16. Detailed Cost Tables
17.   Summary of Economic Rates of Return
is    Memorandum of Understanding
19.   Monitoring and Performance Indicatrs
20.   Letter of Local Government Development Policy
21.   Supervision Plan
22.   Implementaion Schedule
23.   DocMen  available in the Project File
MAP
IBID No. 25191



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GO,ORE  DEVELOPMENT PRO
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMY
J :ze~                     Republic of Ghana
Bodles:La.                 Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD),
Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH), and the District Assemblies
(DAs) governing the 11 cities included in the project (Bawku
Bolgatanga, Wa, Techiman, Sunyani, lo, Koforidua, Agona-Swedru,
KetalAnloga, and Cape Coast/Elmina).
rdit Amount:               SDR 27.7 million (US$38.5 million equivalent)
arms:                      Standard with 40 years maturity
f       h:-imdIng Tern 'Me Government would transfer the proceeds of the credit in the form
of grants to the executing agencies.
Im"  DescrlUd*             1 he project has three objectives: to improve basic infrascture and
services in 11 key medium sized cities, to support the government's
decentralization program and to strengthen the technical, managerial,
and financial capacity of the participating District Assemblies. There
would be two main components. The first, babhiliUia   and
. gradin2 of urban infrastructure and services, consists of (a)
rehabilitation of existing town center roads and associated storn drains
plus traffic management measures, (b) upgrading of existg public
markets and motor parks, and (c) improvements in solid waste
collection and disposal and in urban sanitation. DAs will also receive
assistance in setting up Operation and Mintenance Funds. The
second component, institutional strenphening, comprises (a) the
provision of technical assistance, trainig, and eqLipment for capacity
building of the 11 District Assemblies in the areas of management,
municipal fimance (including property revaluation), and engineering
(mcluding operation and maintenance); and (b) strengthening of the
capacity of selected central government agencies to support the
Districts in the areas of mapping (Survey Department), property
valuation (Land Valuation Board), planning Crown and County
Planning Department), policy and training (MLGRD), and
implementation (rSC). Overall implementation of LGDP would be
handled primarily by the Technical Services Center (TSC) of the
MWH, on behalf of the MLGRD. Tne project would be carried out
over seven years.
Imfita:                    Ihe project would support national economic development by
improving infrastructure and services in cities dtat play significant
economic roles as regional market centers, regional and dirict
dministrative centers, and service provision centers for industry,
commerce, and agriculture. The project would also improve living



conditions for the over one half million residents of the project cities
by providing better roads, dramnage, sanitation, garbage collection and
disposal, public markets, and motor parks. All of these interventions
entail significant improvements in environmental conditions.
Approximately 10% of the total population benefitted by the project
would be below the poverty threshold. The project's support for
greater revenue mobilization and more efficient financial management
by the District Assemblies would promote the sustainabiity of urban
seovices and, in the longer term, the expansion of coverage.
Thm risks related to limited implementatia capacity in MLGRD and
the DAs would be mitigated by the participation of TSC as the main
implementing agency. TSC, which has gained extensive experience
through the implementation of three earlier Bank projects, would act
on behalf of the former entities in handling most tasks related to
procurement, accounting, and contract adminstration. The potential
problem of counterpart funds availability would be addressed by
making the initial deposit of the government's contribution a condition
of credit effectiveness. The risk that operation and maintenance of
facilities will not be sustained would be handled through the
establishment by each District of a special O&M account. IDA would
contribute a share of the funding of these accounts on a declining basis
for their first five years during project implementation. Finally, the
risk that revenue mobilization efforts would not be implemented
dfectively would be addressed by requiring, as a condition of
effectiveness, that the District Assemblies fonnrly ratify and commit
themselves to the implementation of their respective Revenue
Improvement Action Plans.



-iii-
PROWTOMr MNA.NCIN PLAN 4 DIBUSEMN-A
L4eal         Foral             Totl
(US$ Cml)
A.    FtotdPod0
Roads and Drainage                          6.23            9.29             15.52
Madwe & Lory Park                           2.71            3.86              6.57
Wafst Managm                                2.86            9.59             12.45
Daign                            l.lS            0.00              1.1S~~1.1
Sub-Totsl                  I2.             217               usq
Ministy of Local Govenmnt                   0.14            0.02              0.16
Town & County Plannig                       0.19            0.14              0.33
Land Valuation Boaud                        0.40            0.26              0.66
Policy Reiew (DA Rev. Mobil.)               O.OS            O.0Q              0.S
Swvey Department                            0.11            1.44              1.55
Technil Srvic  Center                       0.63            0.07              0.70
Fu  Poject Preation                         0.48            0.00              0.48
Taning (11 Disticts)                        0.51            0.00              0.51
Tebnica lAsat. DAs                          2.16            0.54              2.70
EnAinecr/supervisor(ftV)                    0.00 
Sub-Total                   42              3.0               7-74
ngajentl ow stCo
Operation and Manenance                     332             0.00              3.32
Personal svice Contrcs                                                        L31
Sub-Totl                    S21            ..52
Total BaN cost
Physical Contiagenc                         1.76            1.72              3.48
Pre Conigenoisa                             1.43            L                 3.40
MOal"PROlEwT COST t                                          AD
IDA                                        14.23           24.28             38.51
Goverment of Ghana                          5.S5            0.00              S.S5
Distict Asaembls                            3.16            0.00              3.16
Co-Finac0g S.                               3.09
Sub-Total                  2.0             294
C.    Igae  IDA
Fuscal Year                      1                1997    }          99                 2
Annul                            2.70     4.62     7.70    9.24     5.78      4.62      3.85
Cumulatie                        2.70     7.32    15.02    24.26    30.04    34.66     38.S1
D.       1    l       -teR of Relmo. Avra MMRS for a  preevc    samp of pojects whose vale eprse  about
27% of otal physical wvos: 90.1% for roads and dama; 18.4% for madkts; 15.8% for solid wafst; an 35.0%
for liud waste.
L            Cd.  No 
11 Inlue US$2.67 mMion in duties and ta.



REPUBLCOFGHANA
I. A.    BPdC0
Introduction
1.1    Cities and towns, as centers of industry and services, contribute more than half of Ghana's
GDP. Urban settlements also pay a vital role in rural development as market and service centers.
'Te severe inadequacy of urban infrastructure and services - such as roads, water supply, sanitation,
and solid waste maagement - is a major constraint on the productivity of urban households and
enterprises and, consequenty, on national economic development. Conservative estimates indicate
that over the 1990-95 period about UTS$300 million equivalent would be required just to rehabilitate
basic infrastructure and services in the five largest towns I/ to say nothing of the cost of providing
new facilities and services.
1.2   Improving the coverage of urban infrastructure and services requires not only investment, but
also major efforts to build institutional capacity in the fields of planning, management, finance, and
operation and maintenance. Weak municipal institutions are unable to provide adequate services,
asse the sustanability of services and investments, or mobilize funds for adequate operation and
matenance, let alone new capital investment.
1.3 GO0's initiatives in the urban sector over the last few years include a number of multilateral
and bilateral-assisted urban projects, the provision of incentives for private developers to become
Involved in housing, and the initiation of a national program of decentralization. The World Bank's
assistance for urban development began in 1985 with the Accra District Rehabilitation Project
(ADRP), which included infrasucture and technical assistance primarily for improved resource
mobilization and financial management. Subsequent Bank-supported projects are the Priority Works
Project (PWP, FY88), which focused on labor-intensive infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading in
Ghana's four main cities and the Urban II Project (FY90), which extends the ADRP experience to the
four secondary cities of Tamale, Kumasi, Tema, and Sekondi-Takoradi. Bilateral assistance
(Germany and Canada) has funded recent projects for waste management in Accra, road
improvements in Kumasi, and water supply improvements and technical assistace in secondary
towns. UNDP has supported technical assistance projects during the past several years for
development of an Accra structure plan, improving sanitation in Kumasi, and training for local
government officials.
1.4 GOG's potentially most far reaching move to date in the area of local government has been to
embark upon a very ambitious decentralzation program. The Local Government Law (PNDCL 207,
1988) gave axthority for the establishment of 45 new districts Oocal governments), bringing the total
to 110.
1.5    Ghana's policy with respect t decentralization is embodied primarily in:
1.    The 1992 Constitution of The Republic of Ghana (effective January 7, 1993);
jj    Acor, tK   Tans, Sdi-Takoa a4 Tamae.



-2-
2.    The Local Government Law 207 (1988);
3.    Various Local Government (District Assembly) (Establishment) Instruments and;
4.    The Local Govermment (Urban, Zonal, Town Councils and Unit Commite
(Establishment) Instrument (1991).
1.6    Chapter 20 of the new Constitution (consisting of 17 Articles) is devoted entirely to
"Decentralization snd Local Goverunent.n It establishes that "Ghana shall have a system of local
government and administration which shall, as far as practicable, be decentralized. " The term
'decentralization" is not further defined, except by inference.
i.7    PNDC Law No. 207, which preceded the 1992 Constitution, is more specific. It assigns
directly to DAs the responsibility for performing those functions previously perfomed at local levels
by the deconcentrated arms of 22 cenal government "Departments/Organizations', including:
Community Development; Town and Country Pianning; Public Works; Feeder Roads; five
Departments responsible for various functions within the agriculture sector; Ghana Education Service;
Ghana Highways Authority; and office of the District Medical Officer for Health.
1.8   In addition, the individual Establishing Acts for each of the 110 DAs, which supplement
PNDC Law No. 207, all include a list of 86 specific responsibilities. Among those are
responsibilities for various aspects of: health (other than sanitation); construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of buildings; agriculture and livestock; roads/streets; education; markets; sanitation;
water; electricity; car parks; conservation; and community development (the latter category is a "catch
all" involving a wide-range of functions particular to rural areas).
1.9   It Is the clear intention that the DAs will have complete, devolved responsibility for policy
formlation and planning for the sectors assigned to them as well as for the management of
investment project implementation and on-going operation and maintenance. However, District
Assemblies have limited access to sources of revenue to finance this large range of local goverment
activities.
1.10   The World Bank undertook a Local Government Sector Study in FY92 Z/ to assist the
government's decentralization program. The study addressed:
1.    The process and scope of devolution of functions;
2.    The local/central fiscal relationship including revenue sharing; and
3.    The management and instiutional capacity of central government institutions involved
in the decentralization process and of District Assemblies to plan, finance, manage
and maintain local infrastructure and service delivery.
1.11   The Study found that, under the existing legislation, there is duplication of authority between
District and other levels or institutions of government for various functions (finance, maMgement,
and the provision of infrastructurz, and services). A further problem is that DAs are not yet ready to
2/    "Ghana - Sungheoing Local niatve ad Buldng Loca Capacity", RPort No. 11369OH, Februa 18, 19.



-3-
assume the whole range of responsibilides assigned to them because of resource constrints and lack
of management and technical capacity. Part of the solution is found in the changing role of the public
sector. As government at all levels shifts from directly providing services to planning, budgeting,
facilitating, and supervising their provision, the need for many types of skills within the public sector
is reduced. A massive institutional development program should not be required at the local levels.
New management systems and skills can be phased in. Even with a more modest approach, however,
implementation of Ghana's decentralization policy will require perhaps ten years.
1.12   The main conclusion of the sector study is that government needs to clarify its approach to
decentralization by identifying specific functions within subsectors which ought to be: (i) privatized;
(ii) devolved to DAs; (iii) assigned to DAs as principal agents; andlor (iv) delegated to specialized
institutions, such as parastals, teaching or research institutions, or "special districts* (e.g., water
disstricts).
1.13 This SAR outlines the proposed Local Government Developnmnt project. Details are
presented in Annexes. Section I provides a brief overview of the sector and outlines the policy
framework and Bank sector strategy. Sections 11, m, IV and V respectively outline the project,
implementation plan, project justification, benefits and risks, and agreements, conditions and
recommendations. Profiles of cities included in the project are presented in Annex 1, while detailed
project description, cost estimates, schedule, etc. are presented In Annexes 2 through 16. A summay
of the economic analysis is presented in Annex 17. Detailed project analysis, consulting reports, and
other relevant project data have been placed in the project files.
Population and Urbanization
1.14   Thirty-one percent of Gb na's 14 million people 3t live in some 185 urban areas. The two
largest cities, Accra (the capital) and Kumasi (the second city and capital of the Ashanti Region), 41
dominate, accounting for 35 percent of the urban population. Together the five largest cities account
for 50 percent of the urban population, while the 11 LGDP project towns account for 11 percent of
the urban population. The Accra Region, with 85 percent of its population living in towns of more
than 5,000, is by far the most highly urbanized of Ghana's 10 administrative regions.
1.15 Urban population growth rates declined from 4.8 percent p.a during the 1960-70 period to
3.2 percent during 1970-84. Assuming, conservatively, that the 1970-84 rate of growth continues
between 1990 and 2000, the urban population would increase by about 1.6 million persons (reaching
35 percent of population), with about one-half of this growth occurring in the Accra Region. As the
economy continues to improve under the current Economic Recovery Program, urbanization can be
expected to accelerate, placing even greater stress on already overburdened system. Still, Ghana has
one of the lowest rates of urbanization in Africa, and the opportunity exists to manage this growth in
a socially and economically efficient way.
Local Government lnitutions and Institutional Reform
1.16 Ghana has a three tier structure of government: Central, Regional and District. Regional
administrations function primarily as administrative agents of central government and are relatively
/ EBstimated at 12.3 million, in 1984 census; 1970-84 rate of growth (3.2% p.a.) assumed to continue.
41    Populati in 1990 about 1.2 million and 0.6 million respecdvely.



-4-
weak. District administrations have historically been responsible for managing local services, with
the exception of water and power, which are managed by Central Government parass. During
the period prior to 1988, Ghana's governental system was highly centralized. More recently, a
formal policy of decentralization has been promulgated.
1.17   Despite the initiation of decentralization, the strucues of authority currently in place for
financial and personnel policy and management remain higldy centrdized. District Assemblies are
almost completely dependent on Central Govermment for investment finance and for staff to
Implement, operate, and maintain such investments. lTe GOO is fuly aware that the current
situation contradicts, to some extent, Its own decentralization policy objectives and is drafting changes
In its financial and personnel management systems which are expeted to be more consistent with
those objectives. In the meantime, however, substantial ambiguities exist as to how, and by whom,
responsibilities assigned to District Assemblies will actually be performed. This situation Is
complicated further by the large number of entities at Central Government level whose activities
affect actual operations at district level. Compounding the problem of diverse stakeholders at Central
Government level is the continuation, defi4_    of discrete operations by the district-level staff of the
22 previously centralized Departments of GO  whose responsibilities have, 1jre, been transferred
to District Assemblies.
Urban Infrastructe
1.18 Local government systems in Ghana were once the most highly developed In Africa.
However, urban institutions and infastructure deteriorated considerably during the economic crisis of
the 1970s and early 1980s. Modest improvements have begun to be made during the past decade, in
part with IDA support, but conditions in most urban subsectors remain poor.
1.19 Water: aw 207 assigns responsibility for water supply to the DAs, though decisions must be
made in consultation wit the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC). In fact, virully all
water systems have been constructed and are being operated and maintained by GWSC. GWSC
operates under the Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) and is governed by a board of directrs
appointed by central government. It functions through a head office and ten regional offices.
1.20 Water supply deficits are high in cities and towns. Reliable, safe water through domestic
connections is available to a minority of households. The first priority In urban water supply is
rehabilitation of existing facilities, including restoration of designed capacity and improvement of
reliability and quality of service. The World Bank assisted Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (CR
2039-GH) has initiated an effort to achieve these objectives. A vital part of the strategy is improving
management efficiency and effectiveness of GWSC. Because of the specialized nature of urban water
supply and the shortage of qualified personnel, DAs will need to continue relying on GWSC. Thus,
the reform of GWSC and the restrucuring of its relationship with DAs should be a very high priority.
1.21   SaWdon: Apart from three water bome sewerage systems in Accra, Tema and Akosombo,
which are managed by GWSC, sanitation in urban areas is through on-site systems (septic tanks and
pit latrines for both public and household toilets) managed by DAs and individual households. Ihese
faclities in most cases are inadequately designed and built and poorly maintined. Waste too often
contmiae ground and surface water. In general, the capability of DAs to operate and maintain
public toilets and cesspit emptyig services varies from fair to non-existent. The private sector
peforms some of these services in the larger cities. Because of the high cost of conventional piped
sewerage, moderate and low-cost on-site technologies will remain the principal solution to urban



-5-
sanion, especially In the medium sized and small cities. The main challenge i8 wot techologicl,
but in the area of managemen.
1.22   SoUd M A: Refse colltion i the responsibility of DAs. Accra add Kumasi Metropolitan
Assemblies, which have benefitted fom bilateraly-finded projec in recen yea, now provde
impwroved solid waste collection nd disposal services. However, revenme collection rem-ens
insufficient to meet depreciation costs. The World Bank assisted Urban I prject is providng
assistance In solid waste to Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Tamale. In smail and medium cities. solid
waste collection services handle only a small fraction of refuse generated. Much garbag is dupWed
In open heops which lie uncollected for long periods, or In drainage chamds which become blocked.
Fina disposal sites are usaly simple dumps, not saitary landfills, with attendt eaviromenal
problems. Local officials In the cites identify solid waste collection and disposal as a very serious
problem and a maor piority. Low-cost technologies are being and should conltnue to be applied.
Coracting to the private sector should be practiced wherever feasible. Although achievig full cost
recovery is a long-tem goal, in the short run operating costs can be covered through appropriate fees.
In the case of markets, the cost can be recovered through the daily license fee. For domestic
Pri, it can be Inuded in the property tax.
1.23  hags: A large share of urban roads are in poor condition. In some cases ks toad segment
have deterioratd to the point that travel is slow and hazardous. Tbree agencies are cently
responsible for proviing and maiaining roads: (a) the Ghana Highways Authority (GRA),
responsible for trunk roads, (b) the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), responsible for rural roads,
and (c) the Department of Urban Roads (DUR), responsible for non-trunk roads in the cities of
ccra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tamale and Tema. All hee agenies are under the Mistry of
Roads and Highwap. Under Law 207, DAs have overlapping responsibilities for (a) construction,
reabbilitation and maiece of streets, (b) construction and maintenance of public roads other dtan
tunk roads but including feeder roads, and (c) maitenance, as agents of OHA, of htunk roads lying
wihin the boundaries of their area. In pracice, DAs have not begun to exercise these
onsibilies. Thi is a good example of a subsector for which responsibilities need to be cladified.
1.24    m  D        *ak     Responsibility for storm drainage is n  clear under Law 207. Roadsde
drains usually are included In road constuction, rehabilitation and maitence. However, area-wide
draing recves scant ateio  In many cies, lack of storm draiage contributes to unhealthy
ponting of stagnant water and sometimes localized flooding.
1.25   Marks Ad Motor Parks: Public markets and motor parks are provided and operate
aclusively by DAs, and they are frequently tte DA's major revenue eamers. These faciities are
usually quite primitive, and much potial exisu for incresing revenues through upgading of the
physical infastructure, charging higher fees, and improving management.
Urban Fnae
1.26  Around 1960, local councils in Ghana could cover their recurren expenses and make a small
rbutoa to capital investm . As a result of the economic and political problems of the 1970s
and early 1980s, conditions deteriorated greatly. Serious deficiencies in local government finance are
begining to be addressed, but much remains to be done. For exmple, with ceral goverment
paying most of the cost of local government staff salaries, Districts have little incentive to utilize staff
efficienty. Property values, the basis of the property tax, until recenty were not revalued since the
1960s. Budget and finamci management systems remain archzic. Fees and tarifs too often bear
lIe redaonshi to cost, and billing and collection systems are inefficient and prone to cornupio



Dstict Assemblies tend to dispease their efforts In colleting umerous relatively unproductive
revenues rather than concentrat  on a few productive ones.
1.27  District Assemblies derive their revenue from transfers from cent  government and local
revenue mobilization. In 1992, centra government transfers to the 11 Districts in the LGDP ranged
from 42 to 63 percent of total revenues. Transfers currently consist of (i) grants covering 50 percent
of the salaries of DA employees, (ii) grats for 100 percent of the salaries of civil servants posted to
Districts, (iii) ceded revenues - comprising the entetaiment duty, casino revenue, billing tax,
business regitration fees, advertisement tax, and daily transport tax which are collected centrally and
assigned to DAs, and (iv) some limited grants in aid for specific development projects. The policies
relating to transfers are presently being reviewed by government with the objective of improving the
utilization and reliability of funds flows. The 1992 Constution, for example, establishes a District
Assemblies Common Fund which is to receive an annual allocation from Parliament of not less than
five percent of total goverment revemues. This would more than double the volume of transfers to
Districts.
1.28 The major share of locally generated revenues has come from fees and charges of which
market fees has been the most important ( ranging from 20 to 40 percent of local revenue). The basic
rate, a poll tax, and the prperty tax cnctribute between two and ten percet  and between th   and
twenty percent of local revenues, respectively.
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
1.29 G0G, with Bank assistance, began to address some of the problems of urtban management
under the ADRP (FY85) which was completed in June 1992. These efforts continue in Accra,
Kumasi, Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale under the Urban II Project (FY90). Progress to date
has been encouraging. For example, Accra's revemnes have been increased three-fold in real tems
since 1985. Its accounting systems have been partially computerized, a roads maintenance unit has
been created and trained, and the city has developed a corporate plan in which resources are matched
with invesments. Simlar trends are evident in the Urban E cities. With this experience, a broader
muicipal development program can be initiated in support of the decenization program.
1.30  W1h respect to implementati-n, the most signiflcant lessons learned from the previous
projects concern: (i) the need to give detailed attention to procuement planning and implementation;
(H) ensuing that institutional development components are given adequae early attention, and (iii)
puXtg in place a sustainable operations and mainence sysm   Technical Services Center (MscO,
the technical implementing agency of MWH which has played a key role in previous urban
development projects, mw has considerable experience with procurement, contract administion,
management of consultants, and other implemenion functions.
B.  Sor Shtea
Enomik Devdopment Context
1.31   The World Bank has worked closely with the GOG to define a strategy for economic growth
and poverty reducdon, which comprises the following main elements:
*     Capacfty building for both policy formuladon and public sector management T
includes, I=   IL devolution of responsibilities from central to local authorities,



-7-
improved fiacial revenue mobilization through tax collection and cost recovery, and
cvil service reform.
*     Greater focus on private sector development inch;ing regulatory reform,
privatization, contracting out of public services, and building public-private
parerships.
*     Promoting exports through a series of measures designed to remove maket distotdon
and impediments, impove export infastructure, and stimute foteig diect
investment.
*     Investunent in Infrastructure, with priority on the rehabUitation and mainteac of
existing facilities to maximize economic returos.
*     In the human resources area, focusing investment on literaqy, primary education and
primary health.
*     Strengthening management of the environment and natural resource utilization.
Urban Sector Strategy
1.32   During the second phase of the Economic Recovery Program   , the cenr Issues in urban
development remain the improvement of basic infastructure and services and the steneiDg of the
technical, financial and managerial capacity of local govenment. Investment in urban development in
Ghana contiues to be vital for national economic development. Although only about one thir of the
populaton lives in urban areas, the urban contribution to GDP is about 55 pecent ( the oup  from
ura-based activities).
1.33  In Ghana, investment in basic urban infastructure remains Important for two reasos: (a) I
fosters economic development by enabling the growth of industry, agriculture, and svices and O) it
has direct impact on the welfare and productivity of the urban poor.
1.34   Cities are the key centers of economic activity, political decision-making, administaton,
technology tnsmision, trading, and etrepreneurship. Small and medium cities serve as agricutural
marketing and service centers in support of the rural economy. Yet, poor inftructure hampers the
ability of cities to fulfill these functions. Although it is sometimes argued that distorions in urban-
rural terns of trade may have led to over-investment in cities, inadequate urban Iau re and
serices and weak local government institutions can impose heavy costs on economic activites in both
urban and rural areas.
1.35   An urban sector review paper prepared for Ghana in 1988 Al presented a compreheive
agenda, the main components of which are the following:
MmTh firs phas of ERP bega in 1983 and was supportd by seveal MA aedts. fIU second phas bhog in19I9
and is continuing.
6/    Ghan - RevivinX t Ura Sectr. World Bank eport No. 7384-GH, July 18.



-8-
(a)    Decentralization of authority to local councils, together with providing them the
human and finacial means to fulfill their responsibilities (see below);
(b)   Improved management of urban finances, including cost recovery for services,
property revaluation for better revenue collection and improved accounting;
(c)    Preparation of simple physical plans to guide urban investment and growth;
(d)   Introduction of capital budgeting by municipal and district governments;
(e)    Major reforms In land registration and titling to promote market-oriente urban land
allocation and development;
(t)    A major investment program for urban infrastructure rehabilitation and provision;
(g)    Technical assistance and training for institutional and human resource development In
all of the above areas.
1.36 The above elements were incorporated in the Urban II project which began implementation In
1992. They remain relevant for the present project.
Deenrlaton
1.37   Ihere is a close link between decentralization and urban development. Decntralization of
functions to and strengthening of local government should produce, in the medium to long run, more
efficient and effective provision of urban infrastructure and services. This would be the result of (a)
clsrS functional linkages between consumers and suppliers of urban services, O) a strongr sense of
accountbility on the part of local government officials and institutions to the populton for the
quality of fcilities and services, and (c) an improved ability of local government to mobilize reve
for operaion and maintenae as well as capital investment as it gains credibility through bettei
service provision.
1.38   The most pressing issues to be addressed with respect to decentralization are: the practcal
division of authority and responsibility between central, local and regional agencies and levels of
govenment; increasing the Districts' capacity for revenue mobilization; reform of the centa-local
revenue transfer system to make transfers more predictable and targeted; making local government
pesonnel policies and practices more efficient; and building local technical and managerW capacity.
Rationale for IMA 1nvolvement
1.39   Ihe proposed project is a logical next step for continuation of World Bank support to the
urban sector i Ghana. IDA remains the largest provider of external assistance for urban
development In the country. Through its involvement since 1985 in several major urban project and
sector studies, the Bank has established an ongoing partnership with the GOG. This relationship is
producing substantive progress on the alleviation of physical deficits and improvements in the policy
environment and institutional capacity. GOG looks t the World Bank for continued assistance in the
urban sector.



-9-
II. I1iURQiEc
A.    Proect OWeives
2.1    The objectives of the project are to:
(a)    Improve basic infrastructre and urban services in secondary cities, especially services
benefitting lower-income people.
(b)    Promote the sustainability and expansion of urban services by strengthening the
District Assemblies' financial, technical and managerial capacities.
(c)    Support the government's decentralization program to promote accountability and
efficiency in the provision of irastructure and services.
2.2   Ihe improvement of the central government's ability to provide technical and fimcial
assistance in support of the decentralization effort is also an important objective.
L    frol Dep9f
Pret Stratw
2.3    The World Bank's first urban project in Ghana (CR 1564-GH) dealt with inastruture and
urban management in Accra only. The second project (CR 2157-Gil) extended a similar approach to
the four next largest cities, plus Accra. lSe proposed project, the third urban operation, reflects
GOG's strong interest in two objectives: (a) to extend urban infrastructure investment and institutional
development to the next tier* of the urban hierarchy and (b) to build institutional capacity at the
central and local levels to support its new decentralization program.
2.4 Ihe project would address the basic needs of 11 of Ghana's most important secondary cities
(see Table 1). Ihe selected towns are the largest in population after the five main urban
centers. 'Me LGDP cities play significant roles in the economy as regional market centers, regional
and district adminstrative centers, and service provision centers for industry, commerce, and
agriculture. Seven of the cities have high growth rates (between 2.7 and 5.3 percn per year),
reflectig their economic dyamim. Those cities with lower growth rates are included in the project
because of their substantial popuation sizes and the robustnss of their economic bases.
Geographically, the LGDP cities are well dispersed in all the regions of the country.
2.5    Ihe LGDP supports several of the main objectives of the GOO-World Bank economic
development strategy (see para. 1.31): public sector capacity-building, devolution of functions to local
gwemment, improved government revenue mobiization and financial management, infastructure
rehabilitation, and the promotion of the private sector contractg.
2.6    The investment and local capacity-building components of the project were developed with the
atve pardtlpation of elected and appointed officials of the 11 District Assemolies covering the
LGDP cities. Inally, a team of local project preparation consultants visited each District Assembly
to discuss local priorities. The results of these discussions were incorporated into a series of tecbnical
studies dealing with infastructure, services, finas, and administration. At pre-appraisal (March
1993), a hree day workshop was held in Accra, with representatives of all the DAs, to review the
consultants' suggestions and to give the local officials an opportniy to restate their priorities. The



-10-
workshop revealed a high dege of conistency in the epessed inftcur priories, namey: (1)
wer supply, (2) toads and drainage, (3) markets, (4) motor parks, (5) solid wast services, and (6)
2.7    Under Law 207, water supply remains the responsibility of the national Ghana Water Supply
and Sewerage Corporaton. In all of the 11 towns, water supply rehabilitation projects have already
been programmed and will be implemented with other financing (IDA Water Rehabilitation Project in
nine of the towns and a CIDA-funded project in Bawku and Bolgatnga). Given this, it was decided
in the workshop that water supply would be left out of LODP. To simplify project implementation,
and with the advice and consent of the DA representatives, the investment program of LGDP was
narrowed down to (a) rehabilitation of roads and roadside drains, (b) upgrading of public markets and
motor parks, and (c) improvement of solid and liquid waste management.
2.8    A second workshop with officials from all the D)As was held at the ime of appraisal (June
1993). The focus of this event was to atuain consensus on the implementation arrangements, the
instituon-building components, and the obligations of the DAs to ensure adequate project
implem.entation (e.g. setting aside funds for operation and maintenance).
2.9   The insttional strengthening and cpacity-building components of the LGDP support the
government's decentralization program in two ways: (a) by assisting GO0 to articulate and develop
pathways for the transition period to fill decentralization and (b) by strengthening the capacity of
District Asmblies to assume priority responsibilities as early as possible. At negoiatona
Governmet and IDA agreed on the contents of a Letter of Local Government Development Policy
(see Armne 20).
2. 10 The LGDP has two main parts: (a) Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Infrastructure and Urban
Services and (b) stonal         ening. These are described in the following sections.
ebabiEtaion and Upgrading of Ihastcture and Urban Sevices
2.11   The project wil provide financing to rehabilitate and upgrade three categories of basic
infrastructre and urban services in the 11 cities:
1.    Roads and Stormwat  Drainage: This will consist of the rehabilitation of existing
key town cener roads and links with the trunk road network as well as associated
stormwater drains. The total length of roads and roadside drains to be rehabilitaed is
77 km. in the 11 cities. Ihe project will also carry out basic traffic management
measures including intersection improvements and traffic signs along some 109 km. of
urban roads. The base cost of the roads and drains component is estimated to be
US$15.5 mlion, which constitutes 32 percent of the project's base cost (see Table 3).
2.    Markets and Motor Parks: This component involves rehabilitation and upgrading of
existg markets and motor parks. Interventions include the provision of paving,
drainage, water standpipes, sanitation and washing facilities, security lighting, and
structures. Ihe base cost for the 11 cities is estimated to be US$6.6 million, or about
13 percent of the project's base cost.
3.    Waste Managem-enit (a) Solid Waste:  is subcomponent covers the establishment
of enviromently engineeed landfill sites in each of the 11 cities, fencing of refuse
collection points, and provision of containers, tractors, and other equipment; (b)



-11-
liquld Waste: Ills includcs the establishment of liquid waste disposal sites,
renovation of public toilets, cor.struction of new pubic toilets, extension of water and
lighting to public toilets, provision of cesspit emptiers, construction of underground
holding tanks, and provision of matching grants to households for latrine construction.
The base cost for waste management is estimated to be US$12.5 million, which is
about 26 percent of the project's base cost.
TABLE 1
Population, Growth Rates, and Functions
of Towns Included in Local Govt. Development Project
Towvns      1984 Population    1970-1984        Estimated.        Main
(000)          Anmual          1992 Pop        Function(s)
Growth Rate        (000)
1. Sunyani           38.8            3.50%            52.9        MT,RC
2. Ho                37.8            1.70%            44.0        MT,SC, RC
3. KetafAnloga       50.0            0.72%            54.0        MT, DC
4. Koforidua         77.4            1.70%            95.8        MT,SC,RC,DC
S. Swedru            31.2            2.66%            39.5        MT,SCDC
6. Wa                36.1            3.44%            50.2        MT,RC
7. Cape Coast        57.2            0.73%            61.1        MT,SC,RC
S. Elmina            17.0            2.84%            21.8        SC,MT
9. Bolgatanga        32.5            3.87%            45.7        MT,SC,RC
10. Bawku            34.1            3.60%            46.5        SC,MT
11. Techiman         25.3            5.28%            40.1        MT,SC,DC
Totals          437.4
Legend
MT 2 Madket Town
SC  Service Cene
RC  Regional Capital
DC  District Capital
2.12   Detais of the infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading in each of the 11 towns are given in
Table 2 and Annex 2.
Institudonal Strengthening
2.13   LGDP will finance technical assistance, taining, equipment, vehicles, and operational support
to strengthen the capacity of the 11 participating District Assemblies to plan, finance, and manage



TAW 2
LMCAL GOVBRMMT DEVMPUHM! PROJBCS
SRYOlt OP TOWN IMPRSTRUCTURM PROGRAM
(See Andne 2, Appendices 2 - 12)
A.  XOAD  G DRUKAM
- Traffic Mgt. NasureK                                  10 10      el        25       1   10           10       5          10    10         10       109
- Inersectin Signals                      No.                                 I _                                           3               _          4
- PAbb. of Ado. & Drains                              10.6 6i S.1           3.8   6.09  3.5           3.5       4   _    9.2  13.7           8     73.88
- Canst. of Mm Storm Drains               La                       I                                          0.5              .T           O3.2
D. NADIR"    t LamR  PAMRE
Rehab. of structures
- Toilets                                 ND.            7   2                7       4    2            4                                    2        33
- urinals                      ~~~NO.           __      3                        2                   1           4                3        14
-Publlc Standplpes                        NO.           12   6        3      13       7                 34   2                     2 ______-14        62
- Drainage                                NCM         1.26 1.S             3.65     0.2              0.95                                 1.64      9.22
- Pwing of Markets                        SA          1.99 1.5             1.75  0.625 1.36             1       1         2.2              7.6     19.06
- Paving of Taxl Ranks                    NA                _2                                                                                         2
- Security Lights                         MD.           72  14 -             so      20   28           38      1S         36    70       _133       503
- Fencing                                 LS        .__                                      __1_1
- Bath soumseshowwr Slocks                No.            5   2    1                                             I                  I 111S
- Zarthworks                              HA          1.86 __3                                                                                      636
- Acess Roads to Lorry Parks/Marketo    mS             0.3       0.2          1                       0.4                .                           i.9
C. SOLID a asTE U31133!
Civil Works
- Agriculture Tractors                    No.                                                                   2                  3         3        11
- tipping trailers                        N0D.                    l.                                           10                 is 1                64
- Concrete Sklp Pads                      ND.           20   _-10            2            25 -         2                   20                        125
Vehicles a Equipment                              .
- Tractors                                NO.            3 _      _       ___
- trailors                                NO.           18 is_
- skip Vehcle                             No.              2 2_   2                                     I_                  2                         to
- open Container                          gO.           20  20   10          33           17           17                  25
-Covered Containwer                       MD.                        ____                  1  ----  
- Landfill Equipment                      NO.                I       1 1      I         _2                      1 10
-  ol1-on/off Vehicle                     WO.                                1
Lend Acquisition                           MA            11   9   11          20       8   10           12    4.5           10    10          9    114.5
D. LICQUID  ASTB kWAVAGMUoIB
land Acquisition                           HA             21  2    21                  2    2            2     1_.5.         2      21_       2      19.5_
Vehicles
-Comspit Etptier                          Mo.            2   2    1           3       1                 1       1           2      1         1        15
- Replaoemnt of Csespit Bytier            No.                                               1                                       I_I _
- Nightuoll Containere                    XO.                                10                        10                           1 _ _  _ .        20
Civil Xorks                                                                                 1/                  1/                           1J
-  aten. of Elect. (Sanitation Slte")      WO.                    21                 13   28                   14                                     76
- Exten. of Water (Sanitation Sites)      NO.           10   9               20      13                25                         22        13       112
- coart. of underground hold tanks        NO.                                             25                                                          25
- Construction of Hand dug Wells           no.                    17                                                                                  17
- Rehabllitation of Toilets               NO.                     14          1       1    7           20   _9        X     4      13                 70
- Construction of Add. Toilets            "o.            2                    2                                 3                  1         4        17
- Renovaticn of Toilets                   MD.           11   7   11          17       4   24           le _                241   28                  149
- ConpLetlon Aihandned Toilets            JO.                                                                               6
1/ MecattLe and Water extension combinedo



-13-
urban services in a sustainable manner, and of the Government of Ghana to implement its
decentization policy in a systematic manner. More specifically, the core elements of the
institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building component are: (a) improving the financial,
managerial, and tchnical capacity of District Assemblies to perform functions corsistent with
Ghana's overall economic reform program; and (b) strengthening the capacity of selected central
government agencies to support Distct Assemblies. The total cost of Inttutional Strengthening is
about US$7.7 million, or 16 percent of the project's base cost.
2.14 Most of the support will be to assist District Assemblies to respond to those issues amenable
to local action. ITus, both local policy reform and direct investments in capacity-building at the
district level are included. Local policy reform elements focus on: (a) integrating staff of the
previously cetalized departments direcdy into district administration; (b) adopting efficiency-oriented
approaches where feasible to District Assembly employment (e.g. greater use of fixed-term or
cota  employment); (c) applying at the District level the increasing practice by Central Government
to contract the private sector for the Implementation of public sector tasks; and (d) demonstrating
effective commitment to adequate recurrent financing of the O&M requirements of the infrastructure
investments financed by LGDP  Instiutional development elements include support for: (a) increased
district revenue collection, (b) improved budgeting and finmcial management; (c) planning system
development; and (d) strengthening the Technical Departments of the 11 District Assemblies.
2.15   GovenmUent agreed atne_otations as a condition of effectiveness to have each District
Assembly prepare, with the help of consultants, a Revenue Improvement Action Plan (RIAP). The
DAs will formally approve and implement their RIAPs, which are multi-year plans of actions and
tagets for increasing revenues through taxes and fees. Details of the RIAPs are provided in Annex 5.
2.16 The project will finance traning for officials and staff of the participating District Assemblies.
Each DA will be responsible for preparing and managing its own annual training plan. MLGRD will
coordinate the provision of training through existing national insfitutions. Details appear in Annex
10.       neMM    agUr  at ungotiations to have each DA prepare, with the help of consultants, its
first annual training plan as a condition of credit effectiveness.
2.17   Ihe organizationl arrmagements and TORs for the technical assistance to District Assemblies
are presented in Annex 15. One senior adviser, in addition to the advisors financed by Urban II, will
be provided to LGSU for 36 monXt, along with logistical support for that adviser. Teams of
regionaily-ased national consultant will provide specialized support to the DAs in municipal
engineering, municipal fince, and Distict management. These inputs total 432 person-months of
long-term national consultants and 48 person-months of short-term national consultants.
2.18 Support will also be provided to GOG to implement selected actions related to furthering its
decentzation program. Specifically, GO   will be assisted to (a) review the revenue mobilization
and transfr system and generate proposals for giving Districts more autonomy and flexibility in
revenue raisig and making transers more predictable and targeted; and (b) conduct a pilot scheme
for the use of personal services contracts by DAs to staff key higher-level positions as a way of
starting to foster a labor market" approach in local government employment (see Annex 9).
2.19 In addition, limited support will also be provided to the following institutions to perform
capaciy building activides in support of District Assemblies:
(a)    To the Land Valuatior Board (MFEP) for the revaluation of properties in the eleven
project towns using new cadastral maps, to provide the base for increasing the



-14-
collection of property taxes for the District Assemblies. Support would include
computers, computer software, vehicles, equipment and training. Base cost is US$0.7
million (see Annex 6 for details);
(b)    To the Survey Department (MLF) for the preparation of maps for use in planning,
detailed engineering and land valuation to be carried out with the assistance of an
experienced mapping contractor. Base cost is US$1.55 million (see Annex 8 for
details);
(c)    To the Town and Country Planning Department (MLGRD) for assistance to ten of the
Districts in the preparation of simple Structure Plans (excluding Cape Coast which has
a Stucture Planning exercise underway) and to improve development guidance and
control. Support will include vehicles, equipment, and consultants in key disciplines.
Base cost is US$0.33 million (see Annex 7 for details); and
(d)    To the Technical Services Center (MWH) for support in its coordination, monitoring,
reporting, procurement, contract management, and accounting functions for MLGRD
and the District Assemblies under the project. Support would include vehicles,
equipment and operational resources for the engagement of contract staff to assist
MLGRD and the eleven District Assemblies in project implementation. Base cost is
US$0.7 million (see Annex 11 for details).
2.20 Govermnent agreed at negotiations that the consultant teams providing direct support to DAs
and the consultants working with TSC, MLGRD, LVB and TCPD will be under contract and in place
within one year of the project's effectiveness.
Opertion and Maintenance
2.21 Government agreed at negotiations that each District Assembly will establish and maintain a
fnid for operation and maintenance of the facilities provided under the project. It is expected that
DAs will later expand these funds to cover additional facilities in the three subsectors. The size of
the annual conution to the fund is three percent of the annual investment base cost, which is
considered a reasonable figure for budgeting purposes.
2.22   Operation and maintenance will be carried out by the private sector under contract to the
District Assembly. For civil works the adoption of term (one, two or three years long) unit rate
contracts for maintenance of the various facilities will be introduced. For vehicles and equipment to
be procured through the project for waste collection and disposal, the DAs will, when feasible, lease
the vehicles and equipment to contractors who will provide the services. The contracts would include
the necessary safeguards regarding service levels, cost recovery, and equipment maintenance
standards; these will be determined prior to project effectiveness. Further details and options for
operation and maintenance arrangements are set out in Annex 3.
2.23 The total operation and maintenance cost for the subprojects covered by LGDP is estimated at
an average of approximately US$43,000 per town per year excluding DAs' manpower costs. During
the project implementation period, IDA would contribute a share of this fiud each year, once the DA
had lodged its contribution into the maintenance account. As DA revenues increase over the course
of the project, in line with the Revenue Improvement Action Plans, DA contributions would also
increase with a corresponding decrease in IDA contributions. Contributions from both would start in



-15-
year 2 of the LGDP. The shares of contributions to the operation and maintenance costs would be as
follows:
*     Years 2, 3 and 4: IDA 50 percent, DAs 50 percent
*       Years 5, 6 and 7: IDA 30 percent, DAs 70 percent
2.24 Over the five-year period, IMA would contribute 40 percent of the base costs (US$1.32
million) of O&M and the DAs the remaining 60 percent (US$2.00 million).
Status of Preparation
2.2S A team of local consultants has carried out environmental assessment of all proposed sanitary
landfill and liquid (human) waste disposal sites and other major project components (see paras. 4.10-
4.14). In addition, consultants have writen terms of reference for preparation of techical
specifications and bid documents for waste management vehicles and equipment and draft terms of
reference for preparation of detailed engineering and bid documents for civil works packages in all
towns. The detailed engineering and bid documents for civil works in all towns will be finalized
prior to project effectiveness followed by the finalization of the technical specifications and bid
documents for waste management vehicles and equipment. In addition, the District Assemblies,
having identified the sites for the solid and liquid waste disposal facilities, are in the process of legally
acquiring the land parcels. Legal documentation of rights to acquire these lands on the part of at least
six DAs will be another condition of efftiveness. A deiled action plan up to project effectiveness
is presented in Annex 12.
C. Project Cost and Flnandng Plan
Project Costs
2.26 Ihe project would be implemented over a seven-year period beginning July 1, 1994 and
ending June 30, 2001 with a closing date of December 31, 2001. The project cost summay appears
in Table 3. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$55.5 mililon equivalent. T'he foreign
exchange component is US$29.5 million equivalent (53% of the total). Base costs have been
estimated in Cedis as of January 1993 and converted into US Dollars at US$1 = C70S. Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent. Price contingency calculations are based on foreign
cost escalation projections of 2.8 percent per year from 1993 to 2001 and local cost escalation
projections of 25 percent for 1993, 15 percent for 1994, 10 percent for 1995, and 5 percent for 1996
through 2001. Adjustments were made for anticipated exchange rate movements 2V.
aI    Year          19    1994  1995   1996  1997  1598  1999
US$1-Ce&     708   750   820   856   875    8         912



-16-
Table 3
IAl Gorment Devdopment Project
SumIMa of ProJect Costs
Local              ForeIgn             Total
-(US$ ml]Io)
lnesMM nt cost
Roads and Drainage              6.23               9.29               15.52
Markets and Lorry Parks         2.71               3.86                6.57
Waste Management                2.86               9.59               12.45
Desigp                          l1S                00Q.
Subotal              2                 22A36
Ministry of Local Government    0.14               0.02                0.16
Town and Country Planning       0.19               0.14                0.33
Land Valuation Board            0.40               0.26                0.66
Policy Review (DA Rev. Mobil.)   0.05              0.00                0.05
Survey Department               0.11               1.44                1.55
Technical Services Center       0.63               0.07                0.70
Future Project Preparation      0.48               0.00                0.48
Taining (11 Disrcts)            0.51               0.00                0.51
Technical Assist DAs            2.16               0.54                2.70
E-gneffIsupervisor (KFW)        Om                                     D
Sub.total                                                   LIA
hInrmenS Raw= Sosts
Operation and MaInteance        3.32               0.00                3.32
Personal Service Contracts      J21
Sub-tota               0 
Total Base Cost     22J3               25 1                4Lw
Physical Condngencies           1.76               1.72                3.48
Price Coingecies                143               j                   .f
Totl Project Cost I1           26.02              29.49               55.51
I/ Includes US$2.67 million in dutIes and taxes.



-17-
Fnandng Plan
2.27 An IlDA credit of US$38.5 million equivalent would finance approximately 69 percent of total
project cost. This credit would be extended on standard IDA terms for 40 years with 10 years of
grce,
2.28   (00 would finance US$5.55 million equivalent, or 10 percent of the total project costs.
DAs would finance, during the project implementation period, US$3.16 million, representing their
share of incremental operation and mantenance and personad services contract costs. The German
Government, through the Kreditastalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), is providing paralel cofinancing of
US$8.3 million (15 percent of project cost) for the market and motor park component.
2.29   Governmet agreed at neg9W= to a separate project account being established by TSC,
into which counterpart funs will be deposited, and that sub-project accounts will be established at
each project town to be operated by the DAs, into which additional counterpart fiuds for local
expenditures will be deposited. The deposit of US$100,000 equivalent in the project account and
US$5,000 equivalent in each of the 11 sub-project accounts is a condition of credit effectiveness.
'table 4
Local Goverment Development Proect
Fmancing Plan
(US$ million)
1inancingfPla                            lnaw             Foein                Wa
IDA                                       14.23             24.28             38.51
Government of Ghana                       5.55               0.00              5.55
Distict Assemblies                         3.16              0.00              3.16
Co-finaning (KM                           3.08               52 8               22
Sub-total                  26.02             29.49             55.51
Cost Recovery
2.30 Until recently, charging fees for public services was not a public policy in Ghana. This
situation has changed. Currently, the list of services for which user fees can be collected is
etensive. However, the limited management capacity of Districts means that they will need to move
into cost recovery gradually, startng with a few pnority services. The most lucrative sources of local
revenue are those related to economic activities and commercial user charges. For example, during
1989-90 Techiman obtained over 70 percent of its total local revenue from market tolls.
2.31   Through technical assistance, LGDP will assist the Districts to maximize revenues from the
facilities and services finnced by it, namely markets, motor parks, public toilets, and solid waste
collection. Target levels for fees and total periodic revenues will be established in the Revenue
Improvement Action Plans. The initial objective will be to improve rate-setting, billing, and



-18-
collection systems to the point where fees fully cover operadon and maintenace costs. In the long
run, fees should be set at a level sufficient to cover deprecation, a well as O&M.
m. flJ&MElffAIQN
A. Institutional  rhm k
3.1 Tne (300 institutions directly involved in project implementation are the Technical Services
Center (TSC), which is part of the Ministry of Works and Housing, and the Miny of Local
Govermnent and Rural Development, in particular its Local Government Support Unit (LGSU) and
Training Support Unit (TSU).
3.2 TSC will have overall responsibility, on behalf of MLGRD as the responsible sector ministry,
for managemet, coordination, monitoring, accountng, disbse , procurement, and contract
administration. TSC has handled these functions under three previous Bank-funded proJects (ADRP,
1985-1992; PWP, 1988-1992; and Urban II, 1991-96), and its staff has beern relatively stable; thus it
is well qualified to continue under LGDP. The ADRP and PWP projects have recently closed.
TSC's main focus is now on Urban 11. The proposed project would ths benefit from previous
capacity-building and would continue to strengthen TSC. 'he professional staff of TSC, which
consists primarily of government employees supplemented by some conact staff, possesses skills in
civil engineering, architecure, quantity surveying, water/hydrologicad engineering, accountany, and
procurement. The professional staff, totalling nine, is made up of two engineers, two architects, one
surveyor, one urban planner, one procement specialist, and one financial cotoller. The
technicians comprise four accounting staff and one architectural assistant. The support staff is made
up of one administrative officer, four secretaries, one procurement assistant, and several other office
assistants, drivers, and watchmen.
3.3    With the planned recruitment of a computer programmer to handle the management
information system and a senior accountant, the current capacity of TSC wil be more than adequate
for maging the Urban II project, leaing excess capacity for dealing with LGDP. Additiona staff
requirements would be met through personal svices contracts.
3.4    MLGRD will be responsible for the instiutional strengthening part of the project through its
LGSU and its TSU, both of which are being strengthened under the ongoing Urban II project. Staff
of the LGSU will supervise tecica assistance. The TSU will coordinate training under the project.
3.5 Ihe Ghana Supply Commission (GSC) will be involved in the clearance of bid documents and
bid evaluation for the procurement of goods. The Ministry of Envronment (ME) will review
engineering designs for waste disposal sites.
3.6 The relationships between and mutual responsibilities of the key agencies involved in
implementation have been formalized in a Memorandum of Undetanding. Annex 18 presents the
signed Memorandum of Understanding between MWH and MLGRD regarding the role of TSC.
3.7   LGDP will be overseen by a Project Coordinating Committee composed of the heads of the
involved agencies and chaired by the Minister of MLGRD.
3.8   Each of the District Assemblies participating in the project has appointed a Project
Coordinator from its exising management staf. In addition all the DAs will hire, through persona



-19-
services conrct, a Municipal Engineer, a Finance Officer, and a Personnel Officer (see Annex 9).
lhese positions will be fnaced through a cost-sharing aragement between the Central Govemment
and the DAs; no IDA funds will be Involved. Govemment agred X nggofatgos to contribute its
share of the cst of these positions throughout the life of the project and ensure that the DAs will
retain qualified persons and conute their shares of the costs also during the life of the project.
D. QLgia    l Phms and Mauals
3.9   To assist the District Assemblies, other agencies and IDA in project implementation and
monitoring, yearly operationl plans wUl be prepared. The initial plan shown in Annex 12 covers the
period from project appraisal thmugh the expected date of credit effectiveness. The monitoring and
performace indicators are presnted in Annex 19. The Implementation Manua will conain
quantittive targets for most of these indicators and wUi be reviewed and updated quarterly in
conjunction with the project coordinating committee. The Implementation Manua will be the key
management tool for monitoring of project progress, timely identification of problems, and
formulation of solutions.
3.10 Govemment ad to the revised contents of the Implementation Manual covering the
project's physicad, financial and instutional targets as well as procurement, disburement, auditing
and accounting. Staff of TSC have gained considerable prior experience with these functions under
the previous two urban projects; however, this klowledge must now be systematically documented to
ensure smooth imptementation of LGDP. The implementation Manual will be finaliz4 before the
Project Lauch Workshop scheduled for one month aRer effectiveness (September 1994).
C. rncwmLr eminm
3.11 About 58 percent of the total IDA financed procurement arrangements for civil works and
goods will be procured through ICB. About 41 percent of the project will be procured through LCB.
Only 1 percnt will be financed through local/intermational shopping. The Market and Lorry Parks
rehabilitation component of the project will be finaced in parallel by the German Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW).



-20-
Table 5
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
(IDA Shares in parentheses)
Procuremen Methods
Project Element             ICB        LCB       OTHER    N.B.F. .1  Total Cost
1. Works contracts for reabilitation of  10.79    15.82                 7.94       34.5S
roads, drains, makets, lony park and  (10.12)    (12.22)                 (-)      (22.34)
waste management.
2. Supply of eqipmnt, vehicles for     5.56                                        5.56
waste management                      (5.47)                                       (5.47)
3. Supply of vehicles and equipment for  1.04     0.43       0.35                  1.82
insond strengthening.                 (1.03)     (0.42)      (0.34)                (1.79)
4. Technical assistance, consutacies                         9.41       0.64       10.05
and taing for policy support, project                        (7.45)      (-)      (7.45)
limple taton, instttionl  development,
and design.                                                   3.53                 3.53
(1.46)               (1.46)
S. Operation and maintenance
Total                  17.39      16.25       13.29      8.58      55.51
I/ Non-Bank Financed             (16.62)-    (12.64)     (9.25)      (-       (38.51)J
Notes: The above figures michlde contin es.
Proecurement of Civil Works
3.12   Civil works for the project include small rehabilitation woris for roads, drains, markets,
lorry parks and landfill areas in 11 towns. Because of their size and dispersal throughout the country,
they are unlikely to attract foreign competition, though contractors based outside Ghana will be
allowed to bid if they so wish. Contractors will be allowed to bid both for a single contract or for a
combination of contracts within the same district. Works contracts for rehabilitation of roads and
drains estimated to cost individually more than US$1.5 million will be procured through ICB which
constitutes 45 percent of the IDA financed civil works component. Eligible domestic contractors who
bid for civil works under ICB will receive a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation. Civil works
estimated to cost less than US$1.5 million will be procured by LCB method of procurement. About
18 IDA LCB contracts are planned with an aggregate value of US$ 16.0 million including
contingencies. Experience from previous projects confirms that there are sufficient competent local
and locally based foreign bidders to provide effective competition for these relatively simple works.
LCB procedures were reviewed and are considered acceptable, provided these contracts are advertised
in local newspapers, bids opened in public, and the bidding documents incorporate lear evaluation
criteria, with award given to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The first LCIi document will be
reviewed by IDA before it is released to the bidders. It is anticipated that there wil; be fiva ICB
contracts in the road and drain rehabilitation component, and one in the markets and lorry parks
component which wiUl be financed by KfW. No ICB contracts are anticipated for the waste



-21-
manement component which includes small scale work (average US$ 0.14 million) In each of the
DAs.
Prormnt of Vehiles and Equipment
3.13  Goods conacts for supply of equipmen and vehides for waste management aggregatig
US$S5.56 million wil be procured through ICB. Ihis relatively large procurement will be subdivided
in three main packages and four (or more) subpackages to attract more compeition for the contracts.
Bidders wil be allowed to bid for one, two or more contracts and to offer a discount if awarded more
than one contract. ICB method of procurement will also be used to purchase vehicles for the TA for
an aggregate amount of about US$1.0 million. Locally manufactured goods under ICB will receive a
preference of 15 percent of the CIP bid price, or customs duties and taxes, whichever is the lower.
Four or more LCB contacts for ftrniture and equipment for an aggregate amount of about
US$V30,000 are planned for separate agencies to coincide with staged Implementation and TA inputs.
Items valued at less than US$50,000 per contract, such as individual computer packages and survey
equipment up to an aggregate amount of about US$350,000, will be procured through local and
international shopping based on at least three quotations. TIis would apply to about nine small
cntracts for individual computer packages and office storage systems to be purchased for seven
different organizations. Any other procedure will have to be based on demonstrted advantage to the
client in terms of cost. Spare parts and accessories, which are of proprietary nature, may be
purchased, with IDA's prior agreement, under negotiated contacts from orginal
manufacturers/suppliers or their authorized agents, up to an aggregate value of US$ 250,000. All
goods imported in Ghana wil be subject to pre-shipment inspection for quality, quantity and customs
duty verification ut not price verification for goods procured under ICB).
Consultancy and Operations and Maintenance
3.14 IDA financed consultancy contracts totalling about US$7.5 million will be awarded.
Technical assistance consultancies will comprise 634 person-months from local consultants and 39
person-months of expatriate consutants (one expatriate consultant for   ing  supervision for
about 30 months on an intermittent short-term basis will be financed by KfW and nine months of
short-term intermational consultants wiUl assist with the mapping component). Contracts with local
consultants will, in addition, also provide services for preparation of detailed designs and bid
documents. Local consultants have the capability and experience to handle engineering studies and
the design and supervision of the rehabilitation, waste management and maintenance works. The
Government has agreed that the consultants will be selected following Bank guidelines for the
selection of consultants and that the Bank's Letter of Invitation and Sample Consultant Contract
suitably modified wil be used for consultancy contracts. Prior review, in accordance wifth the Banrs
Guidelines for procurement of consultancy services, shall apply except in cases of contracts valued at
less dan US$100,000 each (although this exception shall not apply in cases of employment of
individuals, single-source contracts, or assignments of a critical nature). Consultancy requirements
are presented in Annex 15. All of the TA for Central Government Assistance to DAs will be
conted through individual consltants. The Direct TA for Distrct Assemblies (total of 480
person-months) will be cnacted to consulting firms, in four packages, each package making up a
team servig a geographical area (see Annex 15, para. 1.3). Each team will be composed of three
pesons (Muimcipal Engineearg Adviser, Finmacial Maagement Adviser, and Planning and
Implementation Adviser).
3.15 Small routine and periodic O&M works will be contracted out, whenever feasible, to the
private sector under local shopping method of procurement. When this is not possible or economic,



-22-
force account by DA established labour force will be used to a maximum aggregate value of
US$50,000 per annum per District.
Assessment of Procurement Pracdtes for LCB
3.16 The borrower's regulations and procedures were reviewed by the appraisal mission and are
considered acceptable provided these contacts are advertised in local newspapers, opened in public,
and the bidding documents incorporate clear evaluation criteria, with award given to the lowest
evaluated bidder. The Government has agreed that Bank's Sample Bid documents, suitably modified,
will be used for the procurement of works and goods.
D. Disbursnemnt
3.17 The IDA credit of US$38.5 million Is expected to be effective by July 1, 1994. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001. The credit would be disbursed over a period of seven
years, up to the closing date of December 31, 2001. This period is consistent with the standard
disbursement profile for Ghana. Implementation is expected to go smoothly because the key agency
responsible for the project (rSC) is formally in place and has had experience in implementing
previous IDA financed urban projects. A detailed disbursement schedule appears in Annex 14.
The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the following categories:
Amount of Credit         % of Expenditure to be financed
Categora                  (US$ million)                   from IDA
1.  Civil Works                      16.89              100% of Foreign Expenditures
70% of Local Expenditures
2.  Equipment & Vehicles              6.62              100% of Foreign ExpenditLres
70% of Local Expenditures
3.  Technical Assistance
and Training                     5.79              100% of Total Expendiures
4.  Operating Costs                   1.33              50% of Total Expenditures until
December 31, 1998;
30% of Total Expenditures
thereafter
5.  Project Preparation Advance        1.00
6.  Unallocated                       6.88
Total
3.18    he special account operated by TSC will be set up in a bank acceptable to the Association to
acilitate disbursements for project expenditures. The special account will be operated by the same
staff of TSC who competently managed a similar account for the ADRP and are currently managing
one for the ongoing Urban II project. The account will be given an authorized allocation of US$ 1
million, sufficient to cover esdmated eligible disbursements over four months. Upon effectiveness, an



-23-
amount of US$500,000 will be made available to the special account. The remaining baance can be
withdrawn from the credit account as needed. Requests for reple ishments must be filly domntd
except in the case of expenditures of less than (i US$200,000 for civil works contac  and (i)
US$50,000 for goods and services coracts, which may be claimed on the basis of Staemens of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Replenishments should be made on a montly basis provided the amount is at least USS 100,000.
With respect to the waste management component of the project, no disbursements will be made by
IDA for construction of any solid or liquid waste disposal site until the District Assembly has
provided evidence satisfactory to the Association regarding its ownerships of the land requhred for the
facility. The evidence will be approved by a designated Bank staff member at the Resident Mission in
Ghana.
E. Accounting and Auditing
3.19 Government agreed at negotiations to TSC establishing and maintaining project-related
accounts for all components. Such accounts shall be maintained in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satsfactory to the Bank. TSC will
provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the
project. An independent auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to the Bank on such staements will
be provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year. Special accounts and SOEs will be
included in the audit and specifically addressed in the Audit Report. The auditor's report will also
include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls, the
reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with
financial covenants. The foregoing accounting, financial reporting, and auding arrangements should
provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of the project. TSC will hire
local consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Such consultants will establish and
maintain appropriate accounting and control systems, includmg separate project-related accounts at ihe
office(s) responsible for project execution. hese systems are to be operational from the
commencement of project implementation and for at least one year thereafter.
3.20  In addition, each project implemendng agency, including each of the eleven District
Assemblies benefitting from the project, will prepare annual statements of account and anul audt
reports related to the project. These reports wil be submitted not later than three months from the
end of the financial year. Following submission of the individual accouts and audit reports, TSC
will include summaries of them in its annual finial and audit report.
F. Reporting, Monitorine and Riew
3.21 Government agreed at negotiations to a set of monitoring and performance indicators covering
project implementation (Annex 19) and on quarterly progress reporting. These will include physical
constuction and institutional development. The latter category wil deal with, ine agia municipal
finance (trends in revenues and expenditre), the management of procurement and contract
administration, and the implementation of training activities. Performance indicators will cover
operation and maintenance, tax and fee collectioi, personnel, and the quality of services provded by
the improved facilities. Local consultants will work with fthe DAs to collect baseline data for the
performance monioring.
3.22   The Technical Services Center wfll be responsible for preparing quartery report on project
progress, including technical, financial and institutional aspects of the project, and submitting thes to



-24-
IDA and to concerned Ministries on behaf of MLGRD. Each impleming agency, namely
MLGRD, SD, LVB, TCPD and each of the eleven District Assemblies, will provide necary
Information to TSC within 14 days of the end of each quarter.
3.23   From these data TSC will prepare project progress tables, update the operational action plan
for the following 12 months, identify critical activities and maters requiring GOG IDA atenton and
compile, consolidate and submit the report to concerned Ministries, project implementi  agencies
and IDA within 30 days of the end of the reporting quarter. Ihe report format follows that developed
in the previous urban project suitably modified and agreed with TSC and will compare physical
progress with the predetermined plans and financial expenditures against component budgets, and
summarze the status of procurement and disbursement of project funds.
3.24 Government agreed at neations to a mid-term review by December 31, 1997. This review
will be a joint Government-IDA exercise designed to be both an assessment of past experience and a
forward-looking analysis of what changes or remedial actions, if any, may be needed to achieve the
project's objectives. Ihe mid-term review will cover the project's components, implementation
arrangements, and financing arrangements, including specifically, (a) the progress of physical
implementation of the infrastructure improvements summarized in Schedule 2; (b) the timeliness and
efficiency of procurement of works, goods, and consultancy services; (c) the effectiveness and impact
of the technical assistance provided to District Assemblies and ceural govenmen institutions; (d) the
management of the training component and its effectiveness; (e) the extent to which the Revenue
Improvment Action Plans are being implemented by each DA, and any problems being experienced in
connection with local government revenue mobilization; (f) the operaton of the ptogram for financing
household santion facilicities; (g) the enet to which the Government has facilitated, and each of
the DAs has implemented, the hiring of the three technical specialists tirough Personal Services
Contcs; (h) progress and impact of the policy review of local govenment revenues; (I) whether and
to what extent the DAs have met their obligation to contribute specified shares of the Operation and
Maintenance Funds; and () the extent to which prvate sector contracting of O&M is being caried
out.
3.25 Government agreed at neiotiaidons to conduct annual joint (GOG-DAs-IDA) implementation
reviews based on the project's Monitoring and Performance Indicators (see Annex 19).
IV. JUSIOMCATIO RIMK AND ENVIRONMENIAL IMPACT
A.    Geeal B-ereits
4.1    By strengthening local government and improving basic urban infrastructure and services, the
project will support the Economic Recovery Program, strengthen the urban economy, improve the
living conditions of the urban poor, and alleviate urban environmental problems.
4.2   The project will have a significant physical, economic and social impact on the project towns
and their surrounding rural areas. Properly planned improvements of infrastructure and
environmeal systems (roads, drainage, sanitadon, markets, etc.) will provide a better environnt
for the growth of producdve actvities and, hence, the municipal revenue base. The maitnance of
exsing assets will be supported under the project. Ihis wil prolong their useful life and minmize
cosdy repair and construco   Rai on and         nzaton of the ua fabric wil iduce cost
savingp and greater reliability in the aperations of public services and private enterprise.



-25-
4.3 Ihe project's support for improved mobilization of local financial resources, cost recovery for
specific sevices, and financial magment will provide mote reliable revenue for the mantenac
and improvement of local irastructure and services, help reduce the reliance on the cental
government budget, and establish a basis for multi-year planning and programming. Beter planiing
and programming will help to emsure that scarce resources wiUl be applied to high-yielding projects
which will directy benefit the productive base and overall efficiency of the urban areas.
B.    roome Evauat
4.4 Economic rates of return have been calculated for a selection of subprojects covering all three
investment components: a) road and drain rehabilitation and traffic management; b) market and motor
park upgrading; and c) solid and liquid waste management. As the subprojects are similar across the
11 LGDP cities, it was not necessary to perform economic analysis for aU of them Projects
subjected to ERR analysis were selected by takdng those above certain size thresholds (to ensure
evaluation of the largest projects in each category) and by including a representative sample of cities
in diffetent regions. The dthesholds for selection were US$1.2 million for roads and drainage
packages and US$0.3 million for markets, motor parks and waste management.
4.5 Only direct and quantifiable benefits were measured. ERR analysis was performed on road
and drainage projects in Sunyani (US$2.17 million), Swedru (US$1.26 million), Bolgatanga (US$2.04
million), and Techiman (US$1.65 million); market and motor park projects in Cape Coast (US$0.45
million), Sunyani (US$0.8 million) and Ho (US$0.38 million); and waste management projects in
Bolgata   (US$0.6 million for solid waste and US$0.58 million for liquid waste) and Koforidua
(US$0.97 million for solid waste and US$0.5 million for liquid waste). The value of the subprojects
aluated Is equivalent to 27 percent of the total cost of the project's physical works.
4.6    Cost streams include civi works, equipment, enginering design, physical contingencies and
operation and maintenance. Financial costs and benefits are expressed in US dollars at January 1,
1993 prices. No price contingencies or taxes are included in the cost streams. Economic costs and
beefit are expressed in international border prices Cm US dolars at January 1, 1993 prices) and
adjusted using Ghana's standard conversion factor of 0.93. An overview of the economic evaluation
is given below. A summary table of the ERRs is provided in Annex 17.
(a)    Roads and Dan         Benefits streams are measured in terms of; (i) Vehicle
Opering Cost Savings (VOCS) arising from increased speed and better surface, and
(H) passenger time cost savigs (PFCS). Average ERRs are 68 percent for
Bolgatanga, 67 percent for Sunyani, 100 percent for Swedru and 98 percent for
Techiman. Ihe high values are due to projected high growth rates of traffic volumes
and the moderate costs of rehabilitaion. By far the larger share of benefits is
attibutable to VOCS. If rrCS are omitted, ERRs decline only marginaly.
(b)    Markets and Lorry parks: Benefits for markets (Ho, Sunyani, and Cape Coast) are
quantified coseraively using only stimates of the incremental market fees that
could be collected by the District Assemblies from the market and lorry park users.
ERRs are 15 percent for Ho, 14 percent for Sunyani and 30 percent for Cape Coast.
ERRs remain acceptable even when subjected to sensivity analysis (20% increase in
cost; 25% decrese in revenues).
(c)    Solid Waste Mw&U=: Benefits from the project sites (Bolgatanga and Koforidua)
are quantified using estimates of willingness to pay on the part of beneficiaries. ERRs



-26-
are 17 percent for Bolgatanga and 15 percent for Koforidua. ERRs remain acceptable
(10 to 12 percent) even with 20 percent cost overuns. With a 25 percen. revenue
decrease, ERRs decline to 7 or 8 percent; this is still considered acceptable for solid
waste services because indirect benefits (health, environment) camot be quanified.
(d)    Liu  Waste Mamg t Benefits from the subprojects in the two selected towns
(Bolgatanga and Koforidua) are quantified using esfimates of the increase in fees that
could be collected by the District Assemblies from the beneficiaries of public
sanitation facilities. ERRs are 35 percent for both Bolgatanga and Koforidua. They
remain high even with sensitivity analysis of 20 percent cost increases or 25 percent
revenue decreases.
4.7   The overall weighted average ERR of the subprojects evaluated is estimated at 59 percent.
4.8    All the subprojects are cost-effective solutions, as they involve rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing works (i.e. roads, markets, motor parks) as opposed to new construction or use low-cost
technology (i.e. simple tractors and tipping trailers for solid waste collection and disposal; on-site
technology for sanitation).
C.    Poertv ImDK&
4.9    Although all the investments of LGDP will provide immediate benefits to the lower-income
populations of the 11 cities, the waste management and motor park subprojects will have the greatest
direct impact on this group. Lower-income people will be the principal users of the public toilets to
be rehabilitated and constructed under the project. This group is also the main user of public
asportation, which will improve as a result of motor park upgrading and road rehabilitation. In the
long term, lower-income groups will benefit from improved management of services in the cities and
from enhanced economic opporunies arising from urban economic development.
D.    EnArnmental Iowa
4.10   The project wil lead to significant improvements in the environments of the 11 project towns.
Sanitation deficiencies, which have led to poor environmental and health conditions in the towns, will
be addressed by the rehabilitation and restored use of public toilets, the provision of additional
larines, the establishment of domestic pilot toilet provision programs, the improvement of capacity
for maintaining sanitation facilities, and the establishment of safe disposal sites for liquid waste.
These interventions will improve environmental conditions by reducing the use of open space and
watercourses for defecation. The risk of groundwater contaminaton will be lessened through the use
of properly designed, sited, and maintained cesspits.
4.11 The solid waste management component will provide more containers at collection points and
better transportation facilities, benefifting a larger share of the population with a more regular and
reliable service and consequently improving environmental conditions. This will reduce (a) the
incidence of piles of refuse accumulating in heaps at high generaton points, such as markets and
transport terminals, and (b) dumping of refuse in drains and watercourses.
4.12   The final disposal of solid ad liquid waste (the latter being human waste evacuated from
latrines, septic tans and cesspits) is of particular concern in the towns, as the most common mode of
disposal is indrimin  dumping at 'convenient' locations, such as fringe areas of the town,
lagoons, streams, or the sea. The project will establish disposal sites that are appropriately located



-27-
and engineered to provide maximum protection t the environment, In terms of groundwater,
drainage, air pollution and odor. The project will also establish appropriate operational practices for
the sites. Preliminary surveys and Investigations indicated that the selected sites would be suitable for
landfill operations without risks to the environment. Thbe consultants carrying out the detailed
enginee   designs will expand upon the preliminary environmen  assessme already carried out
and incorporate design feaures ncesy to mitigate potential localized eironmental effects. It has
been established before appraisal that no displacement or relocation of persons would be involved in
establishing and developing the recommended sites.
4.13 Roadside drainage rehabilitation and the provision of key lengths of new storm drainage will
reduce localized flooding and eliminate ponding of stagnant water. The road and drainage
rehabilitation will also have an environmental benefit by reducing the number of potholes and
unreinstated utility trenches which often result in stagnant pools of dirty water during the rainy
seasons and clouds of dust in dry seasons in heavily trafficked areas.
4.14 Improvements to and rehabilitation of infrastructure in existing markets and motor parks will
also have environmental benefits. Markets are congested and lack basic water supply, sanitation, and
solid waste storage facilities. In addition, markets and motor parks, for the most part, are unpaved
with no effective drainage. The improvements proposed wiUl permit trading, particularly of
foodstuffs, in improved conditions and contribute to improved health and environment. The paved
motor parks with improved traffic management measures wil lead to easier ingress and egress for
vehicles, resulting in fuel savings and less air pollution.
E.    Prsiect sB
4.1S The project does not pose unusual risks. The risks identified are: (a) that counterpart fimds
may not become avalable as required; (b) that management capaciy, particularly at the District level
and in 1kfLGRD, would be insufficient; (c) that the necessary infrastructre and services omaitnance
financing and actions will not be sustined; and (d) that revenue mobilization components may not be
implemented effectively, resulting in revenue shortfall.
4.16 Government agreed at neogtiations to make adequate budgetary provisions and to release the
funds in a timely manner. The management capacity in MLGRD is already being strengthened under
the Urban H project. TSC, which has gained considerable experience under ADRP, PWP and Urban
H will be responsible for implementation of all technical components of the project. These
arrangements have been formalized with a Memorandum of Understanding between MLGRD, MWH
and TSC (see Annex 18).
4.17  The DAs' capacity will be ehanced through capacity building and training under this project.
In addition, the II District Assemblies in the project will establish the positios of Municipal
Engieer, Finance Officer, and Personnel Officer to head the Departments of Works and Fiance and
the Personnel Unit in the Deartment of General Administration, respectively. Officers wil be
directly recruited for these positions from outside the established Civil Service by the DAs themselves
under the terms of individually negotiated six-year fixed (renewable) personal Services Contracts (see
Annex 9).
4.18  During the successful implementation of ADRP and the contiung ilementation of Urban
II, good itepersonal and inter-agency relations have been established which facilitate the resolution
of problems and allow sufficient time for problem solving within the bureaucratic famewor}.



-28-
Sigificant experience and capacity has been built up which can Ow  be utilized to support subprojects
in the proposed towns.
4.19  IDA wil support the establishment of operion and maintenance funds In all participating
DAs. MDA contributions will be made during the project ilemenation period on a declining basis,
with DAs fully funding O&M by the end of this period.
V. A GNI AND RElQMMENDATION
A.    A
5.1   In addition to standard covenants, Government agreed on the following at negotiations:
5.2   TSC to prepare and funish to the Association quartedy progress reports based on monitoring
and performance indicators (para. 3.21).
5.3   Annual joint project implementaon reviews to be held involving MLGRD, MFEP, TSC,
each District Assembly and IDA. These reviews wil be based on the project's Monitoring and
Performance Indicators (see Anemx 19), focusing on physical implementation, municipal finance, and
policyristttiona objectives (pan. 3.25).
5.4   Submissionto IDA by June 30th each year of the finnial statements of the Special Accounts,
Project Accounts, and SOEs for the preceding calendar year audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA (puar 3.19).
5.5   A mid-term review of the project with IDA by December 31, 199; to evaluate progress
toward meedng the project's objectives, project magement, and perfornance against agreed
performance indicators, and to agree on any necessary corrective actions (para 3.24).
5.6 Provision of sufficient budgetary allocations to MLGRD from the Central budget and
disbursement of these funds quarterly into the project account based on disbursement estimates agreed
with IDA annualy (para 4.16).
5.7   GO  and the DAs will share the costs of the three professional contract staff to be engaed
by each DA as per Annex 11; DAs will mainain qualified individuals in these positions; and both
GOG and the DAs will allocate sufficient funds for these positions during each year of project
implementation (ar. 3.8 and Annex 11).
5.8 Each District Assembly will establish and make regular deposits into an operation and
ma_nce fund (pa. 2.21).
5.9   Ihe DAs' obligation to approve and implement their respective Revenue Improvement Action
Plans (para. 2.15).
5.10 Evidence of land acquisition satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of disbursement for solid
and liquid waste disposa facilities (pana 3.18).



-29-
D.    C sditlons of Credt if   xMe
5.11  Deposit by government of the initial installment of ounterpart fnds ito the project account
(pa. 2.29).
5.12   OpenIng by government of sub-project accounts In each of the 11 project towns and desSit of
init  installme (par. 2.29).
5.13  Compledto of te Revenue Improvement Action Plans, satory to IDA, and forial
raticatin of the RIAPs by the repcve District Assemblies (para. 2.15 and Anmex 5).
5.14  Preparon of te fist  du training plan by ea DA (par  2.16 and Anex 1O).
5.15  Pinalizadon of detaied engineering ad the producdon of bid docment for civil wor  for
aU packages fo i) roads and drainage, li) markets and lorry parks, ili) solid and liquid waste diposal
sites and iv) solid waste collection and saniaon facilities (pan. 2.25 and Annex 12).
5.16  At least six of the District Assemblies have legally docmented their acquisition of the
speific land parcels selected for solid and liquid waste disposa sites (pan 2.25 and Ann  12).
D.    Reo_dadon
S.17  Based on the above, the Local Governm   Deveopment Project is sitable for an IDA credit
of SDR 27.7 million (US$38.5 million equivalent) to the Governmen of Ghana.



-30-
Page 1 of 4
RPJUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Profiles of Project Cities
1. 
Bawk is the capital of Bawku East Distict situted in the North East of Ghana. With a
populadon growth ratoe of 4.8% In the 1960s and 3.6% in the 1970s, Bawku bas been one of the
fstest growing sement In the north. The growth rate of the dtrict as a whole is estimated at
2.8%. Mhe town's population has grown from 12,800 in 1960 to an estmated 45,500 in 1992. The
savanna cimate of the north lims firming activity to the rainy season, during the mid-year. Ihe dry
semon is devoted maily to livestock. Foodstffs produced in the Bawku District are millet, guinea
cn, groundmits, maize and onions. The reasonable levels of production are confirmed by the fact
tha the highest revenue source for the Bawku District Assembly is the fees on "exft of foodstuffs
Bawkm is also a commera town by virtue of being within thirty minutes drive to Togo and Burkina
Faso. Its market is therefore a Ithriving place for both local and imported goods.
2.      Bol
Bolgtn Is the capital of the Upper East Region and, apart from Tema, has been the fastest
growin urban cenr in Ghana.  s growt ates ranged from 12.3% in the 1960s to 3.0% in the
1970s and tho early 1980s. Bolgatanga has grownl 8 times from a populaton of S500 In 1960 to a
poPUlionof around 44,000 in 1992. Ithe bulk of the workiag population (over IS years) in
Bolgtanga is employed in agricutural and related fields (57%). The manufactuing, wholesale and
rtiing sectors employ 31% of the popuation. The potential for the agricutural base of the
Bolganga area has been boosted by the coutruction of the irrigation dam at Vea A further
potental for thfo local economy is the infmal sector. Metal fabrcation for donkey drawn carts is a
thrting business in eli townvlages of the Upper East Region. The leather and straw bag industry
is the other main infrmial sector activity. The Rural Housing and Cottage lIdusties organization,
together with a Britih NGO (rIAX) are working towards upliftMng of this sector.
3.    WA
Wa Is the capital e' .ie Upper West Region. Wa township has been growing at a high rate
for the past tre decades. The growth rates were 4% per anmm in the 1960s and 3.7% I the 1970s
and oarly 1980s. The 1992 populaion Is esimated at 48,600. The economic base of Wa is more
limited than those of other regi    capitals in Ghana. Wa is the man urban center in the driest part
of th country. Employment paterus indicate that 72% of people (over 15 years) are employed in
agriltWe and related actves, whie mnucturing and trading account for 115% and 10%
respectvey. The commercia acdtvity rolves aound the market days, which rotate on certain day
cycles and draw people from all over the Upper West and Brong Ahafo regions. Market toUs and
related acdvidies form the  argt part of the revenue base of Wa District Assembly.



-31-
Annex I
Page 2 of 4
4.   IThiman
Techman, the capital of Techiman District Assembly, is located in the BrODg Ahafo Region
in the Westen part of Ghana. Techima Is ewpeiencing a very rapid incae in populatiot growth.
Between 1970 and 1984, the Tecbiman popWation grew by n annual rate of 5.2% which was one of
the highest in the country. Both In the Brong Ahafo Region and the Techiman District, agricult
has been the main occupatin of majority of the people. I 1984 80% and 78% of the people were
engaged in agicture production in the Brong Ahafo Region and the Techiman District respectively.
Techinan's accessibility from all parts of the country has contributed to the development of Techiman
as a commerial center. The shops and market ar well patronized by traders fom both Ghana and
the neighboring countries of Togo, Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso. The market is the largest in the
region in terms of area, etnt and number of people In attendance on market days, which fall on
Wednesday, hbursday and Friday. Ite maket covers an area of 24.6 hectares of which 13.75
hectares has been developed. Following the economic importance of Techiman market, various hotels
have been developed, two of which have one star status. Other activities that have spung up include
small scale manufactg ad repair works, banking, entertainment and chop bars (eating places).
The main economic potental in Techiman lies in commerce and specifically the market. Facilities
like warehousing, salsU and stores, toilets, and bathrooms wbich could bring in extra revenue are
lackng. Also access to parking adjacent to the market will decongest the area due to vehicles beig
parked on the street for loading and unloading.
S.       S
Sunyai is the region capial of Brong Ahafo Region. Sunyani's population grew at an
annuil rate of 3.5% between 1970 and 1984. The  imated 1992 populaion is 51,400. Sunyani is
the adminisratve, commercial and industial center in Brong Ahafo Region and SunyaD DistricL
Suyai is well connected with a road network to towns in the Ashan Region and Brong Ahafo
Regions. Sunyani has two markets, a daily maket located in the town center and a weeldy regiona
market which is currenty under constrction. The weeldy market attracts traders and hamers from
the district and other parts of the country. Sunyani town center has a lar  number of shops. There
is an Industial zone locaed along the ICmasi road In Sunyani. The businesses in the zone include
mechanics/workshops, sawmiUers, cold storm and machine tool shops. Currenty a large sawmill is
under construction in this zone. There is poteta for wood processing, agro-based industries and
machine tool making.
6.    HQ
Ho is the Capital of Volta Region. Ho exeienced population growth rates of 5.1% during
1960-70 and 1.7% during 1970-84. Its populatk has grown fiom 14,500 in 1960 to an esdmated
48,800 In 1992. Ho occupies an important posWion as an administrtive and commercial center in the
Volta Region Ho is well connected by a road network to the distuict, region and the nation. It is a
commercial center wth a weekly maket On maret days, traders come from as far as Denu, Togo,
Akatsi, Kpandu and the Amedzofe area to trade in Ho. There has been a steady development of other
allied economic actvities in Ho whch include small scale manfcuing activities like carpentry,
food procesing and repai works. Banking, aen and tourism are alo part of the local
economy.



-32-
Annex 
Page 3 of 4
7.    Kofbridua
Koforidua is the capital of New Juaben District in the Eastern Region. Its population grew
from 34,900 in 1960 to an estimated 67,300 in 1992. The growth rate during 1960-70 of 2.8% feln
to 1.7% during 1970-84. The fail in Koforidua's growth rate seems to be due to reduced immigration
into ICoforidua, owing to competition from other fast growing towns in the region like Oda,
Asamankese and Kade, which Ill experienced higher growth rates during the 1970-84 period.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the New Juaben District, employing about 60% of the population.
Koforidua has three main markets that attract traders from the hinterland who come to sell mostly
agrkultural produce on market days. Tne large shops and other commercial enterprises make
Koforidua serve also as the major commercial center for the Southern Sector of the Eastern Region in
general and New Juaben District in particular. Other economic activities include trading, small scale
indust  actvities and drugs mac .
8.    AWonasf
Agona-Swedru is the capital of Agona District located in the south of the country. Its
population grew from 18,300 in 1960 to an estdmated 38,600 in 1992. It is a very active conmercial
town. About 37% of the working population is engaged in trading while 25% are engaged in
agricultural and related activities. Community social and personal services account for 19% of
employment whie mnufactring accounts for 14%. Despite the intensive commercial activities, the
Swedru District also has a strong agriculture base. Food crops that are produced in farms in excess
of 100 acres are yams, maize and vegetables. Easy excess to Accra market (one hour's drive) is
likely to encourage further farming activities. Another indicator that is helping to diversify the
economic base of Agona Swedru is the appearance of a first class, three star private hotel in the town
with conference facilities. It has already started attracting foreign sponsored seminars and workshops
to the township.
9.    K&A
Keta is the capital of Keta District in the Volta Region. Over the past 20 years, Keta has
experienced a negative population growth. Keta's population in 1960 was 16,700 whie in 1984 It
was onfly 12,600, and is estimated at about 1 1,650 in 1992. This negative growth rate may be due to
the effect of sea and lagoon erosion which X Aitinues to affect land and properties in Keta. Many
people have suffered property loses as a result of erosion and have moved to nearby towns. Keta
District's local economy is based on agricultur trading and fishing. Keta produces vegetables,
especally shallots (on;ins). Keta is noted for its production of shrmps and salted dry fish. Keta
market, locaed in t0  old town, is the biggest in tie sub-region but is threatened by lagoon flooding
and sea erosion. Small scae industries in Keta nclude carpentry workshops, auto mechanics and
straw mas weaving.
10.   MJar
Anloga is the largest urban center in the Volta Region. Uunlike Keta, Anloga bas
experienced a positive growth rate, its population having grown from 11,000 in 1969 to 23,072 in
1993. This may paty be attribud to migration from Keta to Anloga due to sea erosion and lagoon
flooding in Keta and KOAi. Te       ^4.e  f   oga is based on agricultre, commerce and flA&g.
Agriculur crops produced include shallots, maize, and cassava. Commercially, Anloga is ganing



-33-
Page 4 oft4
moe prominence thfa Keta. TI  I evident on market day when Anloga atrts more people tha
Keta
11.   CM,Comlna
Cape Coast is the capital of the Central Region while Elmina is the capital of the Elnina
District. 'he popladon of Cape Coast has grown from 41,200 in 1960 to an estimated 60,700 in
1992 while that of Elmina has grown from 8,500 to around 21,300 during the same period. Ihe twin
townsip of Cape CoastElmina has the bulk of economic activity generated from its role as an
Aministre and service center for the Central Region. The fishing industty is second in
impotwnce. Elmina remains the leading exort of smoked fish on the local market. The activity
with the greatest potenal for grow  Is the tourism industry. One major factor which has hindered
the devdopment of e tourism idustry is the poor infrastructure base.



-34-
Annex 2
Page 1 ot 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Environmental Systems Improvements
Objectives
1.    In the main towns of eleven District Assemblies:
*     To upgrade both solid and liquid waste management facilities and practices to
enhance the efficient functioning of the towns, the environment and the health
and productiv-y of their residents;
X     To rehabilitate and, where necessary expand, markets and transport terminas
which are critical to the economy and financial position of the respective
towns.
*     To improve circulation and road related drainage through improvements in
key road segments, traffic management, and roadside drain rehabilitation and
construction.
Components
2.    (a) Roads and Stormwater Drainage: Rehabilitation of important main town roads and
associated stormwater drains together wi:h simple traffic management measures; (b) Markets
ad Motor Parks: Rehabilitation and improvement of basic infrastructure in existing markets,
lorry and taxi parks and terminals including paving, drainage, toilet and washing facilities,
public standpipes, and security lighting; (c) Wastes Management: Improvements in solid and
liquid wastes collt,-tion and disposal systems including vehicles, equipment and facilities to
improve and expand storage and collection and the establishment of properly engineered and
environmentally sound disposal sites together with the rehabilitation and construction of
communa toilet facilities and of a grant (50%) program for domestic toilet provision.
Background and Project Formulation
3.    Following on from the Bank's Local Government Sector Study in 1992, the MLGRD
proposed that a third urban project should address basic infrastructure improvements, resource
mobilization and institutional strenghen:ing measures in selected district capitals and possibly
other main towns. The original concept was to frame a project in two phases with the first
phase covering programs to be prepared in detail in six towns and the second phase the setting
up of a fund from which the other urban councils could apply for funds to support selected
infrastructure projects provided they met predetermined technical, financial and economic
criteria.
4.    Following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants, a local consulting group was
engaged and commenced work on identification of a project in mid-1992. Based on a request
from the MLGRD in late 1992, the number of towns to benefit from a first phase program



-35-
Annex 2
Page 2 of S
was increased from lO to 11, and the consultants' scope of work was increased accordingly.
Subsequently it was decided to defer the second phase of the original project given resource,
implementation and time constraints.
5.    The project has thus been formulated using technical information from the consultants,
who visited the eleven District assemblies, discussed services and infatructure priorities of
the main towns in the respective Assembly areas and carried out data gathering, planning and
project Identification and consultation exercises in all of the towns. ITe subprojects reflect
local priorities, as confirmed by project workshops held in Accra in March and June 1993, in
which all District Assemblies were represented by elected officials, managers, and technical
staff.
6.    In the workshops, participants from the 11 towns expressed very similar priorities, as
follows:
(a)    water supply
(b)   roads and drainage
(c)    markets
(d)   lorry parks/transport terminals
(e)   solid waste management
(1)   liquid (human) waste management
Under Law 207, water supply remains the responsibility of the national Ghana Water Supply
Corporation (GWSC). In all or the eleven towns water supply rehabilitation programs have
already been identified, programmed and are currently being engineered with other financing.
The IDA supported Water Rehabilitation Project is to support improvements in nine of the
towms, and the two northernmost towns of Bawku and Bolgatanga are to be supported by a
CIDA fimded projec
7.    Thus, while cognizant of the fact that water supply rehabilitation is indeed the most
pressing priority in all towns, given that water projects are already in the pipeline, the
priorities to be supported under the LGDP were agreed as follows:
(a)    Markets and lorry parks
(b)    Waste management
(c)    Roads and drainage
All District Assemblies confirmed these three priorities at the workshop, though in some cases
the order of priority differed.
8.    In formulatng the project from the proposals assembled and submitted by the
consultants on behalf of MLGRD and the District Assemblies, financial and human resource
capacity considerations have been taken into account. Programs have thus had to be further
prortize and have been focused on rehabilitation before new development work.
9.    Asssing Oaffordability at both District Assembly and at beneficiary level has been
difficult given the severe data constraints. However two basic assumptions have beet made at
this stag in the framing of project size.



-36-
Page 3 of 
10.   Firstly, an assessment has been made of the subproject costs and populations of the
towns which will benefit from the inrschtre and urban services programs. The per capita
costs resulting from this exercise have been compared between towm  and also with ots for
simiar programs undertaken intemationally.
11.   Secondly, it has been assumed that, in line with present GOG policy, the towns wUIl
not be required to repay investment costs. However they will be expected to contribute to
town maintenance funds to be established to provide financial resources for the mah enance
of infrastructure and services in the three sub-sectors to be supported by the project.
12.   DetaIls of the maintenance funds to be established, to which IDA wil contribute on a
reducing scale over the life of the project as District Assembly contibutions increase roadly
in line with increasing local revenues as a result of the Revenue Improvement Action Plans to
be adopted by each town) are descbed in Annex 3.
13.   With regard to capital costs, the per capita base cost of the final programs put forward
averages approximately US$65, ranging from US$39 to US$119.
Description
14.   The project would focus essentially on rehabilitation of urban infrastructre and
services which would support the economy of the towns and improve the health, productivity
and well-being of town residents. The 11 towns are represented by 11 District Assemblies in
six of the country's 10 regions.
15.   The physical components to be supported are grouped under three major component
headings, namely;
(a)    Markets and motor parks
(b)    Waste nagement (solid and liquid or human waste)
(c)    Roads and stormwater drainage
16.   Markets and Motor Parks. Tese are to be upgraded through improvement of water
supply, the provision of sanitation facilities (toilet blocks and urinals), security lighting,
paving and drainage. Similar improvements are also proposed in the main lorry parks or
transport terminals of the towns which have strog linkages with the markets. In addition,
where access to markets and motor parks is required, this is also included under the
component.
17.   Wst               Solid waste services are at best rudimentary in all of the towns,
and in many cases systems have virtually broken down, with many areas receiving no service
or only a periodic service when conditions deteriorate enough to warrant a public outcry.
Collection is erratic, ad-hoc or non-xistent. However, the sitation with regard to d
has been described as 'deplorable'. Solid waste is dumped at Inown tip sites on the edges of
the towns with no control or covering. In many cases It is dumped indiscrimintely In
drainage channels, natural watercourses, and lagoons. Even more serious are the similar
practices doptd for the disposal of septge. The evacated conten  of pit latrines, septic
tanks, and cesspiks is dumped without basic trenching. Thus the project would fOs on
establishing enironmentally sound and properly enginered disposal sites for both solid and



-37-                            ARMe 3
Page 4 of 5
liquid waste as well as providing basic vehicles and equipment for improvement of waste
collection services to augment existing arrangements.
18.   The sanitation component of the project focuses on rehabilitation of existing
community toilet facilities and the need to properly maintain them. A longer term objective
for improving sanitation, environment and health in the towns is for improved access to
sanitation facilities appropriate for urban areas. Already some towns have attempted to carry
out domestic toilet (KVIP) provision programs. However success to date has been limited
primarily due to finance and management constraints.
19.   The project will therefore establish a domestic toilet provision program whereby
householders who wish to have a toilet constructed may apply to the District Assembly with
their proposal. Householders submitting sound proposals, which would have to meet
appropriate technical and financial criteria, and who contribute 50% of the cost including an
initial deposit of 10% of the cost of the facility to be constructed, would be eligible for a
grant of 50% of the cost of a toilet facility. The householder would be responsible for hiring
the contractor from approved District Assembly lists. Works would be supervised by the
District Assembly or their appointed consultants, who would also be responsible for releasing
the 50% grant monies to the householder/contractor in tranches depending on progress of the
work. Further details of the Scheme for Toilet Provision are set out in Appendix 13 to this
Annex.
20.   Roads and Stormdrains. These have for many years received litde or no maintenance,
such that many roads have deteriorated to such an extent that further maintemnce is of limited
benefit, and major reconstruction, or at best rehabilitation, is necessary. Under Law 207,
District Assemblies now have the responsibility "to construct, repair and mainain all public
roads other than trunk roads but including feeder roads and to undertake road rehabilitation
programs within the District". The roads and storndrainage component of LGDP assumes
that the respective District Assemblies will be the "client" for the road and drainage
rehabilitation, and also the few new drains to be constructed under the project. Works will in
all cases be carried out by private contractors (as for all components), in line with current
policy for road construction. An understanding has been reached with the Director of GHA
that the DAs will receive technical advice from the GHA regional roads offices. General
procurement advice will be given, as with all components, by the Technical Services Centre.
21.   Details of each town's investment programs are set out in Appendices 2 to 12 to this
Annex.
hmplementation Responsibilities
22.   District Assemblies will implement work through contractors. The Technical Services
Center (TSC) of the MWH will provide advice and assistance to DAs and MLGRD on
procurement, contract administration, sub-projeat accounting and establishment of operations
and maintenance programs for all components. The DAs would be assisted by local
consultants, appointed by MLGRD/TSC for regular supervision (see Annex 15 for estimated
TA inputs). In addition, for the road and drainage rehabilitation component, the relevant
regional offices of Ghana Highways Authority (GHA) would be available for assistance on
technical matters regarding roads. Overall project coordination, technical supervision,



-38-
A2m 
Page S of S
accounting and reporting, will be the responsibility of TSC (see Annex 11 and Implementation
Maa).
Technical Assistance
23.   Annex S. Section 1 describes  ical assistance to be provided, through national
consultants, for supervision of civil works, improving operation and maIntenace, and other
tasks related to the ifratructu  and services program. A total of 160 person-months of
national consultants will be provided to the 11 DAs over a dee year period.
Costs and  nancing
24.   The total base cost including design and supervision of the physical investment
program alone is US$35.69 million (Cedis 25,263 million) for the eleven cities. Of this the
foreign exchange component is emat  at US$23.04 million. The total physical investment
program for each town (base cost - including design and supervision at 5% but excluding
oningencies) is as follows:
mm=vo        District AM= nbies
-Sunyani      Sunyani                    4.03        2,854
Ho            Ho                         2.78        1,965
KetaAnloga    Kea                        3.SS        2,514
Koforidua     New Juaben                 3.69        2,610
SW-edu        Agona                      2.21        1,567
Wa            Wa                         2.07        1,462
Cape Coast    Cape Coat                  2.56        1,810
lmina         Elaina                     2.02        1,433
Bolgatanga    Bolgabanga                 3.92        2,778
bawku         Ebwku                      4.08        2,886
Techimmn      Techinan                   4,3
Sub-Total:    3.92
25.   Financing would be as follows:
IDA               GOG                  KXW
Lxm     Fonwm     Ig4    Foia           Lx       FouMi
Pbreent      25       75        100      0           40       60
US$illiornu   $6.45    $19.10    $3.57    S0         $2.63    $3.94



KOCAX GOVERNBET DEVBLOPXENT PROJECT
Infrastructure Investment Program
Urban Population Served and Per Capita Costs
1993       Cost US$
Towns          Districts      S (Kill.)   Cedis (Mill)    PoDulation    Per Canita
1.   Sunyani        Sunyani            4.03         2,854           52,927        76.14
2.   so             Ho                 2.78         1,965           43,966        63.23
3.   Keta/Anloga    Kota               3.55         2,514           53,985        65.76
4.   Koforidua      New Juaben         3.69         2,610           95,799        38.52
5.   Swedru         Agona              2.21         1,567           39,548        55.88
6.   Wa             Wa                 2.07         1,462           50,191        41.24
7.   Cape Coast     Cape Coast         2.56         1,810           61,095        41.90
8.   Elmina         Elmina             2.02         1,433           21,834        92.52
9.   Bolgatanga     Bolgatanga         3.92         2,778           45,733        85.71
10.  Bawku          Bawku              4.08         2,886           46,485        87.77
11.  TechiuAn       Techiman           4.78         3,385           40,143       119.07
Totals     35.69        25,263           551,706        64.69
ND. Physical Investment Program includes Design
I! 



-40-
RPUBLIC OF GHAA ANX 2
LOCAL GOvERUNN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               Appendix 2
SUNYANX
Base Cost  Total Base
No. of          Per Unit        Cost
COMPONENT                   Units    Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Cedi Nil)
A. ROADS I DRAINaGE
- Traffic Igmt. Measures                       10 xm           3.48          34.79
- Intersection Signals                          0 No.          7.50           0.00
- Rehab. Rds. & Drainage St.                 10.6 Rm         139.17       1,475.19
sub-Total                                                   1,509.98
B.   MARKET8 & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                                       7 no.         23.19         162.36
- Public Standpipes                            12 No.          0.06           0.70
- Drainage                                   1.26 Km          11.48          14.47
- Paving of markets                          1.98 Ba          81.18         160.74
- security Lights                              72 No.          0.31          22.04
- Shower Blocks                                 5 No           4.93          24.64
- Lorry Park/Existing Market                       LS                        16.65
- zarthwork                                  1.86 Ha          60.48         112.49
- Access Roads to Lorry Park                  0.3 Km.        139.17          41.75
sub-Total                                                     555.84
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                    11 Ha           5.62          61.87
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Reaps                     LS                        11.60
- Concrete Pads for Skips                      20 No.          0.50           9.97
Vehicles & Equipment
- Skip Vehilel                                  2 No.         56.64         113.28
- Open Containers                              20 No.          1.42          26.32
- Covered Containers                            1 No.          1.77           1.77
- Landfill Equipmewt (Bulldozer)                1 no.        154.11         154.11
Land Acquisition                                11 Ea           1.30          14.28
Sub-Total                                                     395.20
D. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                                 2 Ha           2.36           4.72
Vehicles
- C espit Emptier                               2 No.         56.64         113.28
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                         LS                        52.19
Civil Works
- Exten. of Water (Sanit.gites)                10 No.          0.29           2.90
- Construction of Add. Tolets                   2 No.         23.19          46.39
- Renovation of Toilets                        11 No.          2.90          31.89
Sub-Total                                                     251. 37
K.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MOM?.
- Vehicles & Equipimat                             LS                        40.73
Sub-Total (A - B)                                              2,761.12
F.  DE8IG1N & SUPERVISION                                                          93.38
TOTAL PHYSXCAL INVEST. EAsE COSTs 2T854.49



-41-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                   Annex 2
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT         Appendix 3
no
Base Cost  Total Base
No. of         Per Unit    Cost
COMPOLENT                            Units   Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Cedi il)
A.   ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                10 Km          3.48           34.79
- Rehab. Rds. & Drainage St.           6.4 Km        139.17          890.68
Sub-Total                                                925.47
B.  MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
Rehab. of Structure
- Toilets                                2 No.        34.79           69.58
- Paving of Markets/Lorry Parks      1.545 Ha         80.37          124.17
- Security Lights                       14 No.         0.39            5.44
- Standpipes                             6 No.         0.35            2.09
- Shower Blocks                          2 No.         4.93            9.86
- Urinals/Toilets at Lorry Parks         1 No.        23.20           23.20
- Drainage                            1.52 Km.        17.22           26.18
Sub-Total                                                260.51
C.  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                 LS                        29.57
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Heaps              LS                        11.60
Vehicles & Equipment
- Skip Vehicles                          2 No.        56.64          113.28
- Open Containers                       20 No.         3.54           70.80
- Covered Containers                     1 No.         3.78            3.78
- Landfill Equipment                     1 LS/No.   153.73           153.73
Land Acquisition                           9 Ha         2.36           21.24
Sub-Total                                                404.00
D.  LIQUID WASTE YANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                          2 Ha          2.36            4.72
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                        2 No.        56.64          113.28
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                  LS                       115.97
Civil Works
- gxten. of Water (Sanit. Sites)         9 No.         0.58            5.22
- Renovation of Toilets                  7 No.         3.48           24.35
Sub-Total                                                263.55
E.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MGM.
- Vehicles & Equipment                      LS                        48.73
Sub-Total (A - B)                                         1,902.27
P.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                   63.00
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVEST. BASE COST                                        1,965.27



-42-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                         Annex 2
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              Appendix 4
XETA & AULOGA
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of           Per Unit    Cost
COMPONENT                                Units    Units  {Cedi MiL_ (Cedi Nil)
A.  ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                       8 Km.         3.48            27.83
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drainage                  5.1 Km.       139.17           709.76
- Drains                                       1 Km.        22.96            22.96
Sub-Total                                                     760.56
B .  MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Security Lights                             27 No.         0.39            10.49
- Toilets/Urinals                              3 No.        11.60            34.79
- Shower Blocks (Keta)                         1 No.         4.93             4.93
- Ext. of Elect. & Water                         LS                           5.80
- Access Roads to Market                     0.2 Km.       139.17            27.83
Sub-Total                                                      83.84
C.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                               11 Ha          3.54            38.94
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                      LS                        297.94
- Concrete Pads for 24 m.c. Cont.             10 No.         1.28            12.76
Vehicles & Equipment
- Tractors                                     3 No.        35.40           106.20
- Trailors                                    18 No.         3.54            63.72
- Landfill Equipment                           1 No.        50.62            50.62
- Clearing of Refuse Heaps                       LS                          11.49
- Container Vehicles                           2 No.        84.96           169.92
- Container (24)                              10 No.         9.44            94.40
Sub-Total                                                     845.98
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                                2 Ha          3.54             7.08
Vehicles
- Ceaspit Emptier                              1 No.        56.99            56.99
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                                                  115.97
Civil Works
- Exten. of Elect. (Sites)                    21 No.         0.58            12.18
- Construction of hand dug well               17 No.         0.58             9.86
- Construction of Add. Toilets                 5 No.        17.40            86.98
- Rehabilitation of Toilets                   14 No.        17.40          243.55
- Renovation of Toilets                       11 No.         3.48            38.27
- Development of Disposal Sites                  LS                         154.83
Sub-Total                                                     725.70
E.   MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                           LS                          17.58
Sub-Total (A - Z)                                               2,433.67
F.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                          79.88
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVEST. BASE COST                                               2.513.5



-43-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                      Annex 2
LOCAL GOVERMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             Appendix 5
KOFORIDUA
Base Cost  Total Base
No. of           Per Unit   Cost
COMPONENT                               Units    Units   (Csdi Mil)  (Cedi Nil)
A.  ROADS 6 DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                    25 Km           3.48           86.98
- Intersection Signals                       1 No.          8.83            8.83
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drains                  3.8 Km         139.17          528.84
- Const. of New Storm Drains                    LS                         92.78
Sub-Total                                                    717.43
B.  MARXETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets & Urinals                          7 No.         23.19          162.36
- Public Standpipes                         13 No.          0.35            4.52
- Drainage                                3.65 Km.         11.48           41.91
- Paving of Markets & Lorry Park          1.75 Ha          81.18          142.07
- Security Lights                           50 No.          0.39           19.42
- Earthwork                                     LS                        181.04
- Market Access Roads                        1 Km.        139.17          139.17
Sub-Total                                                    690.49
C.  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Sites Development                    LS                         64.71
- Clearing existing Refuse Heaps                LS                         11.48
- Concrete Pads for Skips                   25 No.          0.50           12.47
Vehicles & Equipment
- Skip Vehicle                               2 No.         56.64          113.28
- Open Containers (13 cm)                   25 No.          1.42           35.40
- Open Containers (24 cm)                    8 No.          9.44           75.52
- Covered Containers (13 cm)                 2 No.          1.77            3.54
- Landfill Equipment                         1 LS         153.73          153.73
- Roll-on/off Vehicles                       2 No.         84.96          169.92
Land Acquisition                             20 Ha           2.36           47.20
Sub-Total                                                    687.25
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                            3 No.         56.99          170.98
- Nightsoil Containers                      10 No.          1.77           17.70
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                      LS                         86.98
Civil Works
- Exten. of Water (Sanit. Sites)            20 No.          0.35            6.96
- Rehab. of Toilets                          1 No.         11.60           11.60
- Renovation of Toilets                     17 No.          3.48           59.15
- Conservation of Toilets                    2 No.         14.50           28.99
Sub-Total                                                    382.36
E.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                          LS                         48.73
Sub-Total (A - B)                                             2526.257
F.  DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                         93.25
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVEST. BASE COST                                              2,609.51



-44-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                 Annex 2
LOCAL GOVERUNENT DBVELOPMENT PROJECT        Appendix 6
SWEDRU
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of         Per Unit    Cost
COMPONENT                            Units   Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Cedi Nil)
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                    Km                        23.20
- Intersection of Signals                1 No.         8.83            8.83
- Rehab. of Rds.                      6.08 Km.       139.17          846.14
Sub-Total                                                878.17
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets & Urinals                      4 No.        23.19           92.78
- Public Standpipes                      7 No.         0.35            2.44
- Pav!vlg of Markets                 0.625 Ha         81.18           50.74
- Security Lights                       20 No.         0.39            7.77
- Shower Blocks                          1 Km.         3.71            3.71
- Drainage                             0.2            17.22            3.44
Sub-Total                                                160.88
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Sites Development                LS                        53.56
- Clearing existing Refuse Heaps            LS                         5.74
Vehicles & Equipment
- Tractors                               3 No.        35.40          106.20
- Trailors                              18 No.         3.54           63.72
- Landfill Equipment                     1 No.        50.62           50.62
Land Acquisition                          8 Ha          1.18            9.44
Sub-Total                                                289.27
D. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                          2             1.18            2.36
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                        1 No.        56.99           56.99
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                  LS                        23.20
Civil Works
- Exten. of Elect. (Sanit. Sites)       13 No.         0.46            6.03
- Exten. of Water (Sanit. Sites)        13             0.46            6.03
- Rehab. of Toilets                       1 No.       28.99           28.99
- Renovation of Toilets                  4 No.        11.60           46.39
Sub-Total                                                169.99
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                      LS                        17*58
Sub Total (A - B)                                        1515.89
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                    50.63
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVEST. BAS8 COST                                       1.566.52



-45-
REPUBIC or Go ANA                        Annex 2
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DBVEWOPMENT PROJECT                Appendix 7
WA
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of         Per Unit    Coat
COMPOISM?                                   units   Units  (Cedi Nil)  (cedi Mil)
A. ROADS & DRAIMAGI
- Traffic Hgmt. Measures                        10 Km         3.48           34.79
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drains                     3.5 zm.       139.17          487.09
Sub-total                                                    521.88
B.  MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                                       2 No.        20.88           41.75
- Urinals                                       2 No.         4.64            9.28
- Bath Houses                                    1 No.        3.71            3.71
- Paving                                     1.36 Ha         81.18          110.41
- Security Lights                              28 No.         0.39           10.88
- Drainage                                         LS                        22.96
Sub-Total                                                    198.99
C.   SOLID WASTE MANAGENENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Sites Development                       LS                        31.99
- Clearing existing Refuse Heaps                   LS                        11.48
- Concrete Pads for Skips                      25 No.         0.50           12.47
Vehicles & Equipment
- Skip Vehicle                                   1 No.       56.64           56.64
- Open Containers                               17 No.        3.54           60.18
- Closed Containers                              1 No.        3.78            3.78
- Landfill Equipaent                             1 No.      153.73          153.73
Land Acquisition                                 10 Ha         1.77           17.70
Sub-Total                                                   347.87
D.  LIQUID WASTE MA EMENST
Land Acquisition                                  2 Ha         1.77            3.54
Vehicles
- Replacement of Cesspit Emptier                 1 No.       56.99           56.99
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                         LS                        34.79
Civil Works
- Exten. of Water/Elect. (Sanit. Sites)        28 No.         0.58           16.24
- Const. of Concrete Water Tanks               25 No.         0.38            9.57
- Completion of Abandoned Toilets                1 No.       11.60           11.60
- Rehab. of Toilets                              7 No.       11.60           81.18
- Renovation of Toilets                        24 No.         3.48           83.50
Sub-Total                                                   297.41
I.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                             LB                        48.73
Sub Total (A - 3)                                             1,414.88
F.  DSIGN & SUPERVIION                                                             47.25
TOTAL PIYSICAL INVEST. BA8E COST                                               1,462.13



-46-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                           Arnex 2
LOCAL GOVERNMENT V EVELOPMENT PROJECT                 Appendix 8
CAPE COAST
base Cost   Total Base
No. of         Per Unit    Cost
COMPONENT                                     Units   units  (Cedi 1il)  (Cedi Mil)
A.   ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                          10 Km         3.48           34.79
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drains                        3.5 Rm       139.17          487.09
Sub-Total                                                     521.88
B.   MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                                          4 No.       23.19           92.78
- Shower Blocks                                    1 No.        4.93            4.93
- Public Standpipes                                3 No.        0.35            1.04
- Paving                                           1 Ha        81.18           81.18
- security Lights                                 38 No.        0.35           13.42
- Earthwork                                      1.5 Ha        16.82           25.22
- Exist. Elect./Water                                LS                        17.40
- Market Aacess Roads                            0.4 Km.      150.77           60.31
- Drainage                                      0.95 Km.       17.22           16.36
Sub-Total                                                     312.64
C.  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                          LS                        30.08
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Reaps                       LS                        11.48
- Consolid. Exist. Disposal Sites                    LS                        28.99
- Concrete Pads for Skips                         25 No.        0.50           12.47
Vehicles & Equipment
- Skip Vehicle                                     1 No.       56.64           56.64
- Open Containers                                 17 No.        3.54           60.18
- Covered Containers                               2 No.        3.78            7.55
- Landfill Equipmnt                                1 No.      153.82          153.82
Landfill Acquisition                               12 Ha          0.59           7.08
Sub-Total                                                     368.30
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                                    2 Ha         0.59            1.18
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                                  1 No.       56.99           56.99
- Night Soil Containers                           10 No.         1.77          17.70
- arant Scheme for Toilets                           LS                       115.97
Civil Works
- Exton. of Water/Elect. (Sanit. Sites)           25 No.        0.58           14.50
- Rehab. of Toilets                               20 No.        11.60         231.95
- Renovation of Toilets                           18 No.        3.48           62.63
Sub-Total                                                     500.92
E.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                               LS                        48.42
Sub Total (A - 1)                                              1,752.16
F.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                            57.38
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVST. BUSE COST                                                  1.809.53



-47-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                      Annox 2
LOCAL GOV$RNMENT DEVELOPMBNT PROJECT             Appendix 9
ELMINA
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of         Per Unit    Cost
COMPONENT                                 Units   Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Cedi Ni1)
A.  ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                      5 Km.         3.48           17.40
- Drainage                                  0.5 Km.        22.96           11.48
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drains                     4 Km.       139.17          556.67
Sub-Total                                                  585.55
B.  MARKETS & LORRY PARRS
- Toilets & Urinals                           1 No.        23.20           23.20
- Exten. Water/Elect.                            LS                        52.19
- Public Standpipes                           2 No.         0.35            0.70
- Earthworks                                  3 Ha         16.82           50.45
- Security Lights                            15 NO.         0.39            5.83
- Shower Blocks                               1 No.         9.86            9.86
- Paving (aId)                                1 Ha         81.18           81.18
Sub-Total                                                  223.40
C.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                      LS                       127.05
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Heaps                   LS                         5.74
Vehicles & Equipment
- Tractors                                    2 No.        35.40           70.80
- Trailers                                   10 No.         3.54           35.40
- Landfill Equipment                          1 No.        50.62           50.62
Landfill Acquisition                         4.5 Ha          1.18            5.31
Sub-Total                                                  294.92
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                             1.5 Ra          1.18            1.77
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                             1 No.        56.99           56.99
- Grant Schwea for Toilets                       LS                        57.99
Civil Works
- Exten. of Water/Elect. (Sanit. Site.)      14 No.         0.93           12.99
- Construction Add. Toilets                   3 No.         4.64           13.92
- Renovation of Toilets                       5 No.         3.48           17.40
- Rehab. of Toilets                           9 No.        11.60          104.38
Sub-Total                                                  265.43
E.  MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                           LS                        17.58
Sub Total (A - E)                                            1,386.87
F.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                        46.13
TOTAL PHYSICAL INVEST. BASE COST                                             1,433.00



-48-
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                         AmA
LOCAL  OVERNMENT            IPROJECT                Appendix 10
BOLGATANGA
Baus Cost  Total Base
go. of           Per Unit   Cost
COMPONENT                                 Units      Units  (Cedl Mll)  tCedi Nil)
A.  ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                       10  -za.        3.48           34.79
- Intersection of Signals                       3  Ro.        8.63            26.49
- Rehab. of Rd9. & Drainage                   9.2  xm.      139.17         1,280.35
- Construction Storm Drains                        La                         80.37
Sub-total                                                   1,422.00
B.  MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets & Urinals                             4  No.        17.40           69.58
- Rehab. of Lorry Parks                             LS                        57.99
- Public Standpipe                              3  no.        0.35             1.04
- Paving                                      2.2  Ia         01.18          178.60
- Security Lights                              36  No.        0.39            14.13
- Bath House                                    1  No.        3.77             3.77
- Drainage                                         LS                         34.45
- Fencing                                          Ls                         23.20
Sub-Total                                                      382.75
C.  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                                10  Ha          1.77           17.70
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Developymnt                         LS                        29.57
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Reaps                     Ls                         11.48
- Concrete Pads for skips                      20  no.        0.50             9.97
Vehicles & Equipment
- skip Vehicles                                 2  No.       56.64           113.28
- Open Containers                              25  No.        3.54            88.50
- Covered Containers                            1  No.        3.78             3.78
- Landfill Equipment                               Ls                        153.73
Sub-Total                                                     428.02
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                                 2  Ha          1.77            3.54
Vehicles
- Cesspit Emptier                               2  No.       56.99           113.99
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                          Ls                        69.58
Civil Works
- Exten. of Water/Elect. (Sanit. Sites)
- Construction Water Tanks
- Construction Toilets
- Completion Abandoned Toilets                  6  No.        11.60           69.58
- Rehab. of Toilets                             4  No.       11.60            46.39
- Renovation of Toilets                        24  No.        4.35           104.38
Sub-Total                                                     407.46
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MOMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                             LS                         48.73
Sub Total (A - 3)                                               2, 88.96
F.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                           88.88
TOTAL PHYSXCAL INVEST. BASE COST                                                    7 _  3



-49-
DEPUIXLC OF GIHA                       AnnoN  2
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             Appendix 11
BAWKU
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of           Per Unit    Cost
COMPONENT                               Units    Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Cedi Ni1)
A.   ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                    10  Km.         3.48           34.79
- Intersection of Signals                        LS                         8.83
- Rehab. of Rds. & Drainage               13.7  Rm.       139.17        1,906.61
- Construction Storm Drains                1.7  Km.        27.02           45.93
Sub-Total                                                  1,996.15
S.   MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                                    5  No.        23.19          115.97
- Fencing                                        LS                        11.60
- Public StandDipes                          2  No.         0.35            0.70
- Paving                                         LS                        70.74
- Security Lights                           70  No.         0.39           27.19
- Shower Block                               I  No.         3.77            3.77
- Drainage                                       LS                        42.48
Sub-Total                                                   272.45
C.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                             10  Ha          1.77           17.70
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                      LS                        30.73
- Clearing Exist. Refuse Reaps                   LS                         5.80
Vehicles & Equipment
- Tractors                                   3  No.        35.40          106.20
- Trailers                                  18  No.         3.54           63.72
- Landfill Equipment                         1  No.        50.62           50.62
Sub-Total                                                   274.77
D.   LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land acquisition                              2  Ia          1.77            3.54
Vehicles
- Ceespit Emptier                            1  No.        56.99           56.99
- Grant scheme for Toilets                       LS                        34.79
Civil Works
- Exton. of Water Tanks (Sites)             22  No.         0.35            7.65
- Rehab. of Toilets                          1  No.         9.28            9.28
- Construction Add\ Toilots                  1  No.        23.20           23.20
- Renovation of Toilets                     28  No.         3.48           97.42
Sub-Total                                                   232.87
E.   MAINTENANCS WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                           LS                        17.58
Sub-Total (A - Z)                                             2,793.83
P.   DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                        92.25
TOTALs PSXCAXINVEST.  AS  COST                                                2 3



-50-
REPUBLIC OF GNDNA                       Annex 2
LOCAL GOVRRNVNNT DEVULOPEENT PROJECT              Appendix 12
TBC8IMAN
Base Cost   Total Base
No. of           Per Unit   Coat
COMPONENT                               Units      Units  (Cedi Nil)  (Codl Nil)
A.  ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Measures                    10   Rm.         3.48            34.79
- Rehab. of Rd4. & Drainage                  8   Rm.       139.17         1,113.35
Sub-Total                                                   1,148.14
B.  NMRKETS & LORRY PARKS
Existing L.Park (19,600 sq.a)
- Toilets                                    2   no.        23.19            46.39
- Urinals                                    3   No.         2.32             6.96
- Security Lights                           13   No.         0.39             5.05
- Paving                                   1.6   Na         81.18           129.89
- Bathhouse                                  1   No.         4.93             4.93
- Fencing                                    1   LS         11.60            11.60
Proposed Larry Park (26,000 sq.m)
- Paving                                     2   Na         81.18           162.36
- Security Lights                           20   No.         0.39             7.77
- Fencing                                         LB                         11.60
Markets
- Toilet. & Urinals                                                         139.17
- Public Standpipes                         14   No.         0.35             4.87
- Drainage                                1.64   Km.        89.56           146.87
- Paving of Markets                          6   B&        127.57           765.43
- security Lights                          100   No.         0.34            34.45
- shower                                     6   No.         5.22            31.31
Sub-Total                                                   1,508.64
c. SOLID WASTS MANAGDEMIT
Land Acquisition                              9   Na          1.30            11.68
Civil Works
- Landfill Site Development                       LB                         66.69
- Clearing Zxist. Refuse Reaps                    LS                          8.04
Vehicles & Equipment
- Tractors                                   3   Wo.        35.40           106.20
- Trailers                                  18   No.         3.54            63.72
- Landfill Equipment                         1   No.        50.62            50.62
Sub-Total                                                     306.94
D.  LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition                              2   8a          1.30             2.60
Vehicles
- Coespit Eamptier                           1   No.        56.99            56.99
- Grant Scheme for Toilets                        LS                         40.59
Civil Works
- Xxten. of Water Tanks (Sites)             13   No.         0.93            12.06
- Construction Add, Toilets                  4   no.        23.19            92.78
- Rehab. of Toilets                         13   No.         6.96            90.46
Bub-Total                                                     295.48
S.  MAINTZNRECE WASTE MONT.
- Vehicles & Equipment                            LS                         17.58
Sub-total (A - X)                                               3,276.78
P.  DESIGN & SUPERVISION                                                          108.00
TOtAL PEZCAeXL INVzSt. 3A85  COST                                              3 364.78



-51-
Annex 2
Appendix 13
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic Toilet Provison Scheme
1.    The sanitation component of the project focuses on rebabilitation of existing community toilet
facilities, primarily in areas where considerable numbers of people congregate and work i.e., markets
and lorry parks, together with the means to properly maintain such facilities, i.e. evacuation vehicles.
However a longer term objective for improving sanitation, environment and health of the communities
in the towns is for improved access to a toilet facility, appropriate for urban areas, for individual
dwellings. Already some towns have attempted to operate domestic toilet (KVIP) provision programs
but success to date has been limited primarily due to finance and management constaits.
2.    The LGDP will therefore establish, in each of the tOwns, a domestic toilet provision program
similar to that which has been established in Kumasi. Under the scheme householders who wish to
have a toilet (KVIP, pour flush or WC/septic tank system) constructed may apply to the Ditrict
Assembly with their proposal. Householders submitting sound proposals, which would have to meet
apropriate selection riteria (see below), and who contnbute 50% of the total cost of the facility
including a 10% deposit, would be eligible for a grant for the remaining 50% of the cost.
3.    Based on current prices and preliminary designs of sanitation options, the costs of facilities
would be in the range of US$300 to US$400 and thus the maximum grant payable would be US$200.
Based on these esiates it is expected that the pilot component could support the installation of
approximately 2,700 household sanitaton facilities in the eleven towns. Similar facilities in other
towns in Ghana are often shared by a mnmber of families (up to four); on this basis the pilot program
could benefit in the order of 70,000 persons.
4.    Each DA would establish a Sanitation Fund from which individual houLseholders may apply
for a grant. The scheme will either be administered by a local bank or the DA. Possible fund
procedures are set out below. The technical, financial, administrative, and management details will
be established by the consultants responsible for detailed engineering of civil works for the waste
management componet
5.    The householder would be responsible for organizing a local contra , from approved
DisWct Assembly lists, to cary out the construction of the facility. Works would be supervised by
inspectors who would also be reponsible for certfying the 50% grant monies to the
householder/contractor in tranches based on progress of the workL
6.    Selection Crieria
(a)    Housing.
* Open Space for on-site leaching
* Number of persons per dwelling
* Existg sanitation facilities



-52-
AnLx2
Appendix 13
Page 2 ot3
(b)    Water Use
* Quantity of Wastewater
* Water Consumption
* House Connections
(c)    Geological Conditions
* Infiltrative capacity of soils
* Depth of water table and bedrock
(d)    Operation and Maintence Requirements
* Types of cleansing materials
* Availability of maintence equipment
* Access to on-site systems
(e)    Costs/Affordability
3 Capital costs
3 O&M costs
(t)    Personal Preference
* K2VIP
* Pour flush tilet
* WC and septic tank system
(g)    Willingness to Pay
* Initial and monthly payments
7.    Sanitation Fund Procedures.
Option 1 (involves commercial bank)
(a)    nhe DA establishes the Sanitation Fund and signs a contract with a local bank for
administraion of the Fund.
(b)    The DA submits to the bank a list of regstered contractors.
(c)    Ihe contracton or individuals apply to the bank for a grant with all necessay
documentation including address, sketAh of house lcaton and location of proposed
facility, estimated cost, etc.
(d)    lhe iNpector hired by the bank vists the poposed si  and confi/amends as
necessary the detailed proposals. The conractor/indi l pays he reqWred depot
to the bank and is then atorized to conuct those flities that confom to  ria.



-53- 
Appendix 13
Page 3 of 3
(e)    The inpector inspect the constuction at appimately 60% completion and
approves interim payment of grant monies which is repeated on completion.
(M    Te  al tranche of the grant monies is relased once the inspector has certified that
the facilty bas been satisfactorly completed and is operational.
(g)   IDA fimds are placed In the Sanitation Fund account once account signatories are
ageed.
Option 2 (as above except management Is by the DA)
8.    AUl deven DAs would benefit from the scheme and will establish Sanitation Funds. A total of
Cd.748 million (US$1.057 milion) base cost has been allocated to the component with amounts
allocated to each DA dependent on the size of the DA in populadonterms. Appendices 2 to 12 of this
Annex indicate each DA budget allocation.



-54-
Annex 
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVENMNT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation And Maintenanee
Objective
1.           To ensure that project Investments in infrastructre and services are sustined through
the establishment of a funding mecaism and procedures at the District level for operation and
maintenance of the three sub-sectors being supported under the project, namely a) roads and drains,
b) markets and motor parks, and c) waste management.
Description
2.           A maintenance fund or account will be established in each District Assembly for
operation and maintenance of the infrastruture services to be provided under the project in the towns.
The size of the annual contrbton to the fimd is to equal 3 percent of the anual investment cost
which is considered a reasonable figure for budgeting purposes.
3.              is emvisaged Xt the operation and mantenancewil b carried out by the private
sector under contract to the District Assembly. For civil works the adoption of term (one, two or
three years long) unit rate contracts for maintenance of the various facilities will be introduced. For
vehicles and equipment to be procured through the project for waste collection and disposal, the DAs
will, when feasible, lease the vehicles and equipment to contractors who will provide the services.
The contracts would include the neessary safeguards regarding service levels, cost recovery, and
equipment maintenance standards; these wfll be determined prior to project effectiveness. Further
details and options for operation maintenance arrangements are set out In later in this Annex.
Costs and Thancing
4.           The cumulative operation and mainan  cost for the specific sectors covered by the
LGDP for the project period is esfimated as US$$3.32 million, excluding DAs' manpower costs.
During the project implemeion period, IDA would contribute a part of this fund each year,
commencing in the second year of the project, once the DA had lodged its contribution into the
maintence account. The conmtbutions would be made every six months in the amounts agreed (see
below). As DA revenues increased over the course of the project, in line with the Revenue
Improvement Action Plans, DA contibutions to their respective funds would also increase with a
corresponding decrease in the I)A contribution. Ihe schedule of cost-sharing of the operation and
mainteance fiuds would be as follows:
*     Year 1        Works under construction, thus litde maintenace or increased
revenues. Operation and mantenance plans and maintenance account
management procedures established. No contributions from either IDA
or DAs this year.



-55-
Annex 3
Pag 2 of 4
*     Year 2        Some mai     ce required and some Improvement in revenues. IDA
contributes SO% of the estimated Onu  0 & M cost; DAs contribute
the remaining 50%;
*     Years 3 and 4 IDA contributes 50% of the estiated anmalO & M cost; DAs
contribute the remaining 50%;
*     Years 5, 6    IDA contributes 30% of the estmae annual 0 & M cost; DAs
and 7        contribute the remaining 70%;
From the eighth year, after project Imple tion, he DAs would take over full responsibility for
contributing to the funds.
5.           lhe actual amounts deemed to be necessary to adequately cover each town's operation
and mantenance requirements for the paticular sectors has been assessed at 3 % of the cumulative
capital costs of works carried out. The total sum for a11 eleven towns over the life of the project is
estimated at US$ 3.32 million. Based on the above schedule of contributions, IDA would provide
approximately US$ 1.32 million, equivalent to 40% of the total, to operation and mainenance for aUl
eleven towns during the course of the project, with the District Assemblies contributing approximately
US$ 2.00 million (60%).
ImnlemetaUOn Arrangements
6.           Operation and maitenance will be the responsibility of the respective DAs, including
contracting, management and payments to contractors from the fimd. However, local consultants will
be hired to assist the DAs with the initial esaWblis t of the accounts in each town and the
implementation of operation and maienanc plans. Ihe consultants wiUl work under the direction
of, and contracted to, TSC acting on behalf of MLGRD (see Annex 15). The preparation of the
maintenance plans will be part of the terms of reference of the consultants responsible for detailed
engineering. Each DA will submit applications to MLGRD fr permission to establish the fimds and
the necessary separate bank accounts prior to project effectiveness.
EMr=sd MaTntenane A_WMs - Deail
Components
Market and Lo=M Pkuk IcEfmt
(a)    Routine
drains
-     paving
-     toilets
-     standpipes
-     secry lighting
(b)   Periodic
-     drains
-     paving



-56-
Anne 3
Page 3 of 4
-  tollets
-     standppes
-      S:Curity ligting
Roads and R!
(a)    Routine
-     sweeping
-     cleaning open chan  drains
(b)    Periodic
-     patching
-     ssurfae dressing
-     white lining
culvert cleaning
-      idrain and road repairs and minr work
Solid Waste
(a)    Routine
-     collection
-      andfill opaon
-vehicle maitnance
UaWdui
(a)    Routine
-     toniet cleaning
(b)    Periodic
-     empting
-     toilet renovaion
-     vehicle maintena
Preparation of Tern M      ce Plans
Preparation of manac pla  and bid doc1umntao  foir unit rate maintnce and minor
works term contacts for all components w  be carried out by consultants ptrarg detied
ngieeing for the project. Ihis       aon, with ay   eay updagddio    ems, wi
be the basis of bidding of a compr     opation and maintenanc conac each year. The bid
documet will include work Itekm  based on a units of work done bai as wel as items for daywork
i.e. hourly, daily and weey rates for labor to be prvided for such works as toilet cleaning and
sweeping.
Preparaton Of Quartey               Sdiedle
Preparation of detailed quarterly       c hedules tD iuct the term manten
contractors will be carried out by DA MunicW  Eng Wors Side /Cleans Officers
with assistance of the municipal engineering coultan.



-57-
Annm 3
Page 4 of 4
Implemntation of Term Maintenance Contrat
Option 1:    All routine and perodic maintenance and operation wil be caried out by contract(s)
awarded for either one year, two year or three year periods. Contractors' work programs will be set
qarterly and payment for work and input provided will be based on work done/days worked, paid in
accordance with the contract rates and following submission of monthly certificates to the DAs.
Option 2:    Similar to option 1 above excepting that certain maintenance works may be carried out
by the DAs direct labor. Such items could include maintenance of equipment, market sweeping and
similar simple, labor intensive works.
Supervislon/Certificatlon Contractors Certificates
Checldng on quality of work carried out and measurement of quantites (where
arpriat) together with certification of monffly certificates submitted by the contractors and
monitoring Mabintenance Account deposits and expenditmes (to ensure total funds available anmnally
In maintenance account was not exceeded) would be verified by the local supervisory consultant
before being passed to the DA for signature and payment fom the Maintenance Account.



-58-
,Annex 4
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMNT DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Environmental Assessment
The project has been screened and given a Category SBE rating. Waste disposal sites may
have significant environmental impacts, thus a detailed enviromnental assessment was deemed
necessary for these sites. Preliminary environmental assessments, which were completed prior to
appraisal, confirmed that the selected sites would be suitable for proper sanitary landfill operations
without risks to the environment and that no displacement of persons would be involved in
establishing and developing the recommended sites. A more limited analysis has been made on the
remaining subprojects. A summary of these assessments follows.
Componet: RehabWlitation of 1Markes. LI&r Parks. Roads and Roadside Drains.
Positive Impacts
*     Provision of a safe water supply through additional standpipes and the upgrading of
sanitation facilities in the markets and lorry parks should improve health conditions in
the central town areas.
*     Improved solid waste and collection arrangements in areas of the city with higher
population densities will also improve health conditions, mainly by eliminating open
piles of refuse.
X     Improved circulation in an out of and within motor parks wilt reduce air pollution
from vehicle exhausts by decreasing traffic congestion.
*     Construction of roadside storm drains will eliminate ponding of stagnant water and
protect against localized erosion.
Negative Impacts
*     On-site sanitation, if not properly designed, may result in leaching of wastewater into
the ground water and lead to subsequent pollution problems.
*     The increase in sullage water from markets and storm water from drains, if not
properly managed, may create hazards.
Mitigation Measures
*     VIP latrines and aquaprivies to be constructed under the project will have pits that
will be periodically emptied, so that new pits do not have to be dug when the first
ones are fill.
*     Vacuum trucks will be provided in order that a timely and ,ffordable latrine emptying
service wil be available.



-59-
Anxn
Page 2 of 3
*     Education programs will be established to promote effective use of latrines.
*     Runoff from markets and storm water from roadside drains will be properly channeled
so as to avoid pollution or erosion.
Component - Solld and Liquid (human) Waste Management
Positive hnpacts
*     Ihe provision of new sanitary land fill sites and liquid (humati waste or septage)
disposal sites, and closure of existing sites which are preseny operated as open
dumping grounds with litfle control, will significantly reduce health problems and
envirounental degradation risks.
*     Engineering and environmental studies of new disposal sites have been undertaken to
identify means of minimizing potential environmental problems. Such means will be
incorporated in final designs and project implementation arrangements.
*     Exntending the refuse collection service to include unplanned housing areas will reduce
some of the environmental health problems associated with on-plot disposal.
-     The refuse collection process will become more hygienic, as there will be a reduction
in handling of refuse compared with present arrangements.
*     Adoption of more regular collection service will reduce the health risk attributable to
unattended refuse being left uncollected for up to one week and longer.
=     Encouragement of an improved latrine waste disposal program will contrbute to a
reduction in surface water pollution and associated envirommental health problems.
*     Establishment of a domestic latrine financing program, If successful, will reduce
pressure on public toilets and improve the overall rate of usage of sanitation facilities.
NLAtive Impacts
*     Higher concentrations of solid waste (at the new landfill site) and liquid waste may
contribute towards pollution of groundwater sources.
*     Potential smells and vectors from new landfIll disposal sites could present a nuisance.
Mitgton Proposals
*     Operational guidelines will be developed for use at the landfill sites which will be
enforced through proper supervision of operations.
*     Soils surveys have been undertaken into the suitability of ground conditions at the
sites and engineering measures to eliminate risk of groundwater pollution wil be a



-60-
An4
Page 3 ot3
feanur of civl works contracts both to estblish sites and In their subsequent
0-Onon.
*     Landscaping treatment of the landfill sites wIll help to screen sites from view.
*     The regular supervision of landfill sites wIll minimize the risk fom, and to,
scavenger.
*     Establishmt of dedicated maintenance funds will ensu  the proper operation and
maitnance of the waste service, thus avoiding poor collection and disposal pracdces
duo to finding costraint.
Monitorin
*      nb order to en    the successful running of the landfUls, the following measue wll
be implem _t on an onoing basis:
(a)    Ground water testing at the landfill site.
(b)   Site InpeDoS of the landfill and disposal site will be caried out
peiodically by senior managemen to ensure sasty landflhling practices
ar being upheld and that the site is mained in good condition.
(c)    All plant and equipment to be provided under the project will be inspected
reglly for breakage and wea and tear. Repairs will be made as required.
The maintece finds to be supported under the project wll emure an
adequate repair and mantenace capability for all landfill and disposal
veicles, pln and eqpmet.



-61-
Anne 5
Page 1 of7
REPWULIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
District Assembly Flnances
A.    m
1.    Financl perfmance of the DAs in the period 1988-1992 has been weak; it was negative In
1988 constant price tem. Revenue generation and central ansfers have covered recuent budgets,
but no significat funds have been generated for capital investment.
2.    By Board Presentation, Revenue Improvement Action Plans will have been preared in deil
aLd fully endorsed and accepted by thfe DAs. A small additonal consulta   is required (OR
atached as Appendix 3 of this Annex).
3.    The potential of property taxes has not been realized. Valuation lists are out of date and
incomplete; government and parastatals have not paid in respect of their property holdings.
4.    Property registers should be updated using the LVB facilities established under ADRP and
Urban U, and if LVB software has to be updated, consideration should be given to the attachment of a
billing module to assist DAs in prompt rate bilings.
S.    Ihe role of fiancial transfers from central government is under review. Possible changes
reuting from the receut passage of the Common Fund Act have not been projected at this stage, but
k is essential that purposes and levels of transfers be clearly specified and promptly delivered to the
DAs. In addition there will be an obvious requirement for a District Assembly Information System
(DAIS) if needs based grants are to be inoduced.
6.    The LGSU in MLGRD established under Urban II should play a key role in development of
the DAIS.
7.    Budgeng and accountingytems are out of date and inefficient In tems of proviing
aca  and dmely financial management information. There are no multi year financial projection
systems.
8.    The LGSU should review existng systems and regulations and present re ions for
improved systems development to MGRD for consideration and decision.
9.    Plans for a District Asembly Loans Fund are under consideration, based on current DAs'
ficial capability. DAs must be strengdtened in terms of revenue generation and overal financi
capability befoe such a fund would contbute to acceraaton of district development.
10.   lal policy issues have bee idenified which should be considered and decided on prior to
_cmmencement of detailed development of such a fund.



-62-
Page 2 of 7
B. lktied Desin
Inrducto
11.   The Mission reviewed the bistorc fiancial performance of each of the 11 District Assemblies
for the period 1988 to 1992 and prepared the basis for fimancial projections. These are attached as
appendIces 1.1 to 1.11. Thc DAs have a tange of statutory &nctions and responsibflities, and the cost
of pe        these finctions is finced by a mixture of locally generated revenues, ceded revenues
and central government grant. The District Assembly Comnon Fund Act was passed in 1993 but this
is not yet effective, and it is not clear how It will impact on financial capabilities. Local revenue
performance and generaion of funds for capital investment have been poor. The property tax,
intended to be one of the major financing sources for DAs, is not effective due to outdated and
incomplete valuation rolts. In this project, the main financial management weaknesses of DAs
relating to their own soue" reveenes will be addressed through the Revenue Improvement Action
Plans (RlAPs), and through the complete reauations of urban areas for property tax purposes (see
Annex 6).
Finandal Performance Review 1988 - 1992
12.   The review of performance was carried out based on the financial retuns submitted by the
DAs on an annual basis to the MLGRD. Initial comparisons of original budgets against actual
performances indicated that the amnual budgets prepared by the DAs did not iefiect the real position
and in most cases were much in excess of act  performance. For this reason this approach was not
followed through. In addition the acounts do not provide any clear detal for cost recovery review of
public serices provided. Ihe weakness  are, however, addressed in system and procedure terms
below.
13.   In total, for all of the 11 DAs, the performance shown in Appendices 1.1 to 1.11 has been
summarized for 1988-1992:
L     Spaces of Funds
1988/92
Contribution to Total Revenue (Percentage)
Highest             Lowest
Local Revenue
Basic Rate                           9.4                 2.4
Prerty Tae                          20.2                 0.2
Fees & Charges                      76.0                52.7
Other DA Revenue l                  11.6                 0.2
Government & Ote Gants                     22.1                 0.4
H.  ABdon
Share of Total Expenditure (Percentage)
Highest             Lowest
Recurrent Expenditure                      89.7                59.3
Capital Expedi                             40.7                10.3



-63-
A5 
Page 3 ot 7
m.  Growt    ne 19892
(constnt 1988 prices)
Highest             Lowest
Locl Revenue                            + 33.8               - 58.0
RecurrentExpenditure                    + 31.1              -65.3
Note 1.      Salary grant has been excluded from indirect revenue and deducted from
recurrent expendiure.
14. The Basic Rate is in effect a Poil Tax which is reportedly resentd by many of the potential
payers, and its financial contribution has declined over the review period.
15.   Property taxes, which shoud be the budget balancing factor, have not performed consistenlly
over the period due to the fact that basic valuation rolls are almost 30 years old in some case and
only limited supplementary valuation rolls have been prepared.
16.   Faes and charges represent the major revenues of the DAs. The major components are market
tolls, lorry park tolls, and In some cases produce exportation charges and waste management charges.
17.   Indirect mrevnes comprise small grants in aid from centra govemen and ceded revenues
(shares of the entertainment duty, casino revenue tax, betting tax and income tax, which are pooled
and distributed by central government on a formula basis); these were inroduced only in 1991X92.
18.   Recurt expend         compriss mainly salaries and wages costs paid directly by the DAs. A
small percentage is spent on _mntenance materials for DA properties and other inastructure.
19.   Capital expenditure is mainly for habilitation of buildins and irastrcture with some small
constuction, mailly shools, lofry parks and markets.
Dstct Asembly Fiadal Projecdons IM3 - 2000
20.   Appendices 1.1 - 1.11 include fiacial projections for each DA. The baseline projections
represen a "without projec senaio based on average growth over the period 198-199 (except for
eceded revenues" introduced in 1991, and thus having no direct trd). This has been forecast to the
year 2000 for all Districts at at an arnnal nominal growth rate of 12.5%; this represents esdmated
inflation plus a 2.5% allowance for real growth. The other 'with project* scenaio takes into account
additional opweration and maintenae commimen  in respect of project infiastruc    and inceases In
revemnes arising from (a) the project infastructre for lorry parks, markets and waste collection and
disposal; and (b) for imprvements in property tax revenues expected from the property revaluation
exercise and the TA to Districts. Wlhoit project gowth expectations are limited due to poor
resource  nation history and the idendfied need for the DAs to ie   recurnt commitments in
relation of 0 & M of eting   atruure.W    regard to financi transfers from central
govemnent, so account has been taken of any possble changes in GOO policies and fiacial
allocations reslting from the District Asembly Common Fund Act of 1993. Mhis is discussed
below.
21.   The 'with project' projections rflect both the direct improvements with the project and the
expected imprved climate for revenue generation due to the visibe impacts of tis project's physical



-64-
Anne
Page 4 of 7
developments on the residents' general willingness to pay' as they see improvements in the towns
infrastructure being delivered. In addition, improvements in regular and reliable financial transfers
from central government will also increase the DAs' ability to finance frther required infiastructure.
ancial Trasfers by Central Government
22.   The existing financial transfers comprise the percentage grant for salaries and wages for the
main categories of DA staff; the ceded revenues; and some limited grants in aid of specific
development projects which often require DAs to commit to counterpart fumding. The policies relating
to transfers are presently being reviewed by government to improve both the amounts and objectives
of transfers and the reliability of fund flows to the DAs, to assist them in accepting and performing
transferred functions. The District Assembly Common Fund Act was approved by Parliament in
1993; however, the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the annual value of the fund and
distributing funds between the Districts have not yet been specified. For this to be effective a key
requirement will be a reliable and comprehensive DA Information System (DAIS). The Local
Government Support Unit (LGSU), approved for development in MLG under the Urban II project,
will be fiuther strengthened under this project and is expected to play an important role in the
speciftcation of the scope and operation of the DAIS.
23.   In determning fimre national budget allocations to the DAs it is considered essential that this
be set at a sustainable level; that is, a level which will not be significantly exposed to variations in
national budget performance. There are needs for two types of grant component: a) for support of the
recurrent budget, and b) to promote specific programs.
Policy Review of District Assemblies' Revenues
24.   Apart from the direct assistance to DAs in revenue mobilization and financial management,
die project will support the Government of Ghana in reviewing the current allocation of revenue
surces among Central Government and District Assemblies with the view to revising currently
established revenue systems consistent with established decenalization objectives. Technical
assistance will be provided to help GOG to: (a) conduct a comprehensive review of the current
allocation of revenue sources among central government and local governments, and (b) prepare draft
proposals for legad and regulatory reforms to rationalize revenue collection among levels of
government (consistent winth GOG's strategic dece ization objectives and the relative resource
requirements at both cental and district levels). This is explained in detail in Appendix 4 of this
Annex.
Revenue MobiflztIon
25. Revenue mobilization is one of the keystones of urban sector development in Ghana, and
ADRP and Urban II bothf focussed on improvements in property taxation and specific fees and
ciarges to increa  the financial capabilities of the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies. This wil
be continued through this project. Detaied Revenue Improvement Action Plans (RIAP) will be
prepared for each DA. An oudine of the RJAP is attached as Appendix 2 of this Annex. The RIAP
identifies: al the major existg revenues and the specific key actions required to be taken by the DAs
also any other involved agencies (eg. the Land Valuation Board); b) any new revenues identified as
having potential for specific DAs; c) revenue administation and collection policies; d) the public
information campaigns considered necessary to inform the public of how revenues collected are used
in the delivery of public services; and e) the identification and deletion of charges which are not cost



-65-
Annex
Page S of 7
effective. In addition, the RIAP will identify an action timetable and develop key monitoring
Indicators so that RIAP progress can be effectively managed by the DAs. Outline RIAPs were
prepared by consultants prior to Appraisal. The final detailed RIAPs will be prepared under an
additional consulmancy, the TOR for which is attached as Appendix 3. The DAs' acceptance of and
commitment to the achievement of RIAPs Is considered an essential element of the project, and their
formal ratification by the DAs will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Basic Rate
26.   The Basic Rate is a poll tax (ocally called a sleeping tax') which has historically contributed
between 2% and 10% of DA revenues. It is declining in real terms in the majority of DAs for the
following reasons: a) it is reportedly resented by the town residents; b) it is a low unit value tax
(C200 per capita) and major collection efforts are not considered justified; and c) there is a history of
Tleakages- of collections.
27. The financing of the costs of DA activities through both a Poll Tax and the Property Tax also
has elements of duplication in terms of the same tax payers in some cases being required to pay both.
It may be dtat consideration should be given to elimination of the poll tax. This proposal was put
forward by the DAs in the workshop held at the commencement of the pre-appraisal mission in March
1993.
Property Rates
28. The historical performance of property rates has varied, ranging from 3% to 20% of DA
revenue. This variation reflects improving trends in some DAs and declining trends in others.
Collections relate primaily to private sector properties. State and parastata institions have not
paid; there is no payment in lieu (PIL) in respect of govenment premies. Action has been taken by
MLGRD, and instructions to DAs to charge the state and parastatal institutions were issued in
September 1992 and Gazetted In October 1992. This should significantly improve the financial
capabilities of a number of DAs. The question of PIL has still to be resolved. The instructions
indicate, however, that the level of rate impost for establishments covered will be notified by central
government.
29.  ITe most important constait on property rate mobilization is the lack of current valuation
rolls. Origina valuation rolls were prepared in the 1960s, and there have been limited and infrequent
supplementary rolls issued since that dme. At present valuation rolls are not up to date in terms of
either the properties or the ratable values. Some of the DAs have attempted to compensate for this
through the application of a form of differential rating, but this is obviously only 'stop gap situation.
30. There is a clear need for the preparation and maintenance of current property valuation rolls
in the eleven DAs. Provisions have been made to extend the LVB valuation project operating under
Urban n to the eeven DAs on completion of the Urban II cities, which is expected prior to LGDP
effectiveness in mid 1994. hIital LVB estmates indicate that the cost of updating valuation rolls for
the deven towns Is on the order of US$0.68 million; thi is included in the project costs.
31. A key element in rate collections is the billing and payment recording systems. The present
sym   are slow ad inefficient, and there Is a need for dwelopment of improved systems, possibly
computerid, to establish prompt billing systems and payment recording systems which also generate
infoma    for rate wears follow-up and recovery action. Tecnical assistance (detailed in Annae



-66-
Annex
Page 6 of 7
15, Section 2) will help the District Assemblies to develop improved systems, including computerized
systems where applicable, The improved computer systems will be designed to accept basic
computerized property data from LVB to produce rate bills and rate ledgers, to receive payment
data, and to produce arrears notices for further collection efforts.
32.   There is also a clear need for education and public awareness campaigns relating to the annual
budgeting and rate fixing carried out by the DAs. The MLGRD instructions regarding rate charges to
government agencies of 29th September 1992 clearly states the role of property taxes as the residual
DA financing mechanism for all net budgeted expenditure (capital and recurrent) after allowing for
budgeted local revenues and government grants, and taking into account rates chargeable on
parastatals and government properties.
Market Tolls and Lorry Park Tolls
33.   The analysis and projections in appendices 1.1 - 1.11 indicate the current importance of
market and lorry park tolls as the major revenue source of the DAs. The two revenues are interlinked
and are subject to the same revenue characteristics. This project proposes rehabilitation works which
wfll significantly improve market and lorry park infrastructure and which should improve revenues as
a result. RAP actions have been identified to ensure that these revenues are maximized. Current
privatization considerations for market operation and revenue collection should ensure that the DA net
revenue position adequately reflects the improvements made and true revenue potential of the markets.
Potential New Revenues
34.   Potential new revenues fall into two categories: a) expansion of revenue bases through the
provision of services for which charges are already levied, ic. solid waste disposal and sanitation; and
b) completely new revenues. The major areas of new sustainable revenue sources relate to the
possible introduction of turnover related taxes, ie. for hotels and restaurants, entertainment
establishments (to the extent that is not already covered by the existing entertainments duty), etc. Tbis
will be considered ftrough the RIAP. Other sources of new revenue identfied by the DAs relate to
one time gains through specific projects or investments.
Revenue Management
35.   Gains through improved revenue management are expected to arise from the adoption of more
cost-effective collection policies; the use of collection incentive schemes; setting and annual review of
collection targets; minimizing, if not eliminating revenue leakages; the efficient use of bonded revenue
collection agents; and institution of efficient arrears control, reporting and recovery procedures. RIAP
proposals are expected to extend to recommended actions in these areas.
Accountng and Budgeting
36.   In preparing the historical financial analysis of DA financial performance, the account&lg,
budgeting and reporting procedures and structures were reviewed. There are significant weaknesses in
terms of the limited range of budget allocation heads. nTis has resulted in lack of any information
with regard to cost recovery services. In addition to the limited range of analysis, the DAs make no
allocaton of personnel costs. This is a nationa problem. 'Te accounting regulations covering the
DAs were prepared in 1961, and have not been modified since that time. The situation is curently
under review in both MLGRD and MFEP.



-67-
Page 7 of 7
37.   There is a requirement for a form of activity based budgeting which Identifies specific
operational activitias separately from the central support functions (eg. the District Executive and
Finance Officer's activities). The differing scale and complexities of the 110 Assemblies require a
system which can be operated on both a manual and computer basis (dependent on size and
capability). The Urban II project Is undertaking the development of a computerized system for the
five major Assemblies. It is expected that this system will be relevant and implementable in some of
the Assemblies in this project, possibly with limited amendment. However, there is an additional
requirement for an equivalent manual system for smaller Assemblies. Separate TA has been provided
for this task which Is described in Annex 15.
38.   Ihere are currently no instructions regarding the preparation of multi year financial plans.
This is considered a major omission as there is no longer term plan or framework for DA decision
taking. It is recommended that the MLGRD LGSU review this and make recommendations to
MLGRD) for decision.
39.   Annex 3 addresses the issue of establishing a separate fund for O&M of infrastructure
provided through this project; the methodology of account operation will be that World Bank funds
will be transferred to this account each year, after DA funds have been deposited, and contract
maintenance payments will be made from the account after proper certification. Provisions should be
a subject for consolidation in future accounting and budgeting improvement proposals.
Technical Assistance
40.   Anmex 5, Section 2 describes technical assistance to be provided, through national consultants,
for improving budgeting and accounting systems, implementing RIAPs, and upgrading billing and
collection of property rates. A total of 160 person-months of national consultants will be provided to
the 11 DAs over a three year period.



TOWN.:   SU9AJ   P                        0S AMfCT AOEMSY          SNANI                      PFIOJECTtON 'ASED ON CONSTANT JANJArY 1903 CEDI         Annex 5
CEaI V0                  Appendis 1.1
SOURCESOFFUNODS                      1988    19         0 090    1991    1992  GPRWTH C4NSTA       1993    1994    1995    1998    1907    1990    1999    2000
RATE  GPROWt
DIRCI LOCAL FIVENES                                                          1989-92   RATE
Oask Raft                           2,73   3,874   4,238   4,422   3,019    -7.90%  *39.81%        2.777   2,300    1,857   1,447    1,088    713      385      79
Ptep.lyeteyf                        8,824    7.745   7.312   9.754   15.285    25.43%  -21.50%    16,342   19,810  20,86t  21,204  20.383   17,77   12.511   3,370
TOW. Fate n Chtards                14,894  24.t1S   31,305  43.256  34,933    1300%   26.04%    39,390   39,999   39.,41   37,998   34,348   28,240  18,750   4,768
MaketFees                          7,7t3    8.899  I1,250  12,5.5   13,085    1458%  .25.42%    14.917  15.305   15,315   14,785   13,502   11.107   7.480    1,914
Lony Park Fees                       680   .1410   4,012   4,989    4,241      7 54%  2St.80%     4,551    4.395   4,139   3,781    3,233    2.521    1,587  382
1,741    t 441    2.373   2.730    2.52                       3,033   3.278    3,450   3,508   3,371    2,940   2.069     557
OmerFenscthegesI1                  4,710  1(WS06  13.671  22,991   15,079    1245%   26.73%      16,889   i,024   18,736  15,874   14.241   11.593   7.685    1.915
MoIcllanou                            174     280     594   t,191      339      6S56%  :30.85%      359     342      319     280      243      187     t6i      26
Trtdlng eloe7                         253     887      975     878    1,193            28 04%      1,312    1,299   1,254    1,168    1,029    e23     5.31    131
TOTAL DIECTREVENtES                26,918  3(1.1922  44,425  59,501   54,769    1405%   249 %    62,180  WJ.750  63.937  62,032  57,088  47,740  32.234    8,377
AT I9S8CONSTANT PRicES             26,918  2t,617   20,688  22,91q   18,312
N/tECT REVNUES
Gtg In reu ofd rte                      0       0        0       0        0
Ceded Rfvenu2                           0       0        0    4,353   15,696            76.40%    17.883   18,108   17,880  17,034   15,351   12,552   8,282   2.092
4  G.rG ftt (EUSal,y Gmntio3    o               0   o            0       0
TOTALIRSECT FEVENUES                    0       0        0   4.353   15,696             26.40%    17,883  18.108   17.880  17,034   15,351   12,552   8,282    2092
AT1988cONSTANTPf8CES                    0       0       0    1,877   5,315
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNoS              26.918   36.922   44,425  83,855   70.665    24.16%  7522%    80,063  8,.850   81,817  79,088  72,418   60,292  40.576   10.489
AT Iee CONSTANTPfRICES             28,918   27.t17  20,868  24.598   23,626
APPUCATC1.t OF FUNDS
RcUNe Opewre
StafCWofa (et GOG   Gran$3         13.275   9,799   10.392  12,882    9.m28    -234%   2804%    10,041    9.941   9.598   8,941   7,878   8,298   4.084    1,000
TrwlaTransport                      5.239   9.217   9,259   12t169   13,591    13.82%   25.42%    15.,493   15,s,8   15,907   15,3#   14,023   11,819   7.769    1.988                                  0
General ExperdNav                   2,442   :1.499   6,368    7,377    7,1156    PC, %   21 50%    s.587    9,274    ,.788   9,926   9,542   8,322   5.857   1t578
Mltenance &RpAlr                    2,023   .J.J29   4.100   2.299    3.188     1.43%  31 31 ..    3,347   .1.13   2918   2.592   2,181    1,664    1,025      242
oer                                 3,132   8.219   11,995   9,705   11,082    10.41%  *2804%    12,169  12,047   11.632  10,635   9,546    7,833   4.995    1.216
TOTAL RECURRENT ExpENOJRE          26,112  34.0t4  42'132   44,231   44,125     901%  2A01%    49.637  50.321   49.21  47,651  43,171   35,538  23,639    8.027
AT1988CONSTANTPRCES                26,112  25.480   19.791   17.037   14,753
SURPLUS FOR CAPITAL EXPEND             S0    2.858    2,293  19,624  26.s40   110.19%
ACTUALCAPTALEXPENoITURE4              520   3.983   8,771  21,032   19,553    7024%  2403%    30.426  31,538   31,997  31,414  29,247   24,755  16.937   4A442
AT 1968 CONSTANT PRcEs                520   t964    4,120   8.101    6,537
NMt 1     Incldesx varoust ncence foest, tents. ft.
Nate 2    Theff renUese gamtOlIng  ot eItn8netnl tII  collcted cesttefy and osgned to D As
NoWt 3    Salr Gran paid by Central Goenment lMs been txcluded fotm Icom and expenditure
Nolt 4    ThiN Includes snall rehiliation woft eN some new eostruction
Nate 5    This Is Note sptfc loon povion for OSA4 funds
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRICES
C COO0
1993    1994    1995    199      1997    1998    1999    2000
TOTAL DIRECT REVENUES                                                                  1460%    62,180   70,833  80,933   92,723  108,489  122,571  14l,367  103,052                                 G
TarAL NORECT REVENUES                                                                   1250%    17,883  20.118   22,638  25,482  28,645  32228  38,254  40,785                                      OQ   C
TOTAL FECURtEW EXPENDITURE                                                             13 10%    49,637  55,912   83.084  71,220  80,559   91,238  103,479  117.528                                         l X
ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR oEvELOPMENT                                                        1612%    30,426   35,040  40,502   4,907   54,S75  83,558  74,142   8q6,8                                    -  ff
NEt ECAWWT IPACT                                                                                   1,834   2.201     891  (12,95) (14,744)  28,144  52,771                                           ox
TOTAL WITH PROJET DEVELOPMENT CAPASU                                                    15.15%    32,281  37.241   41,394   33,972  39,631   91,702 128,914  88,811
Note I    Satei   fir . Reventte minus RBcurrent Expenditu
01-Jul.93



TOWN:                 HO                   DISTRICT AsSEMSLY        NO                         PROJECTION BASED ON CONSTANT JANtUARY 19938ED             Annex 
ce =000                    APp4X 12
SOURCEOFOFFUNB                        106     1989    1990    1991    1992 GFRWTH CONSTA            1903    904    1995    1006    1007          1008      1000      2000
RATE  GROWTH
DIRECTLUCALREVENUES                                                           1960-92   RATE
Bnl Rde                              2,373   4.041   6,066    4,783    3,106   *13.75%  -31.31%    3.261   3,061    2.40    2.525   2.124       1.521       006       235
Fopety RFtas                         3,601    5.033   6e183   4,198    3,987    -7.47%  .31.31%    4.186   3.956    3.64    3,242   2.727      2.061    . 1.282      302
Tol Feest snCh&n                    11,167  19.630  24,560  30,77    31,823    17.47%  -23.10%    37.063  38.070   40,023   30,742  37,413     32,031    22.183      5.605
MeFtFees                            6,661  12.543   11.045  23,75M   17,662    12.51%  -28.40%    20,095  20,346  20.092   10,141   17,249    14.104     0,306      2,3E0
Lo,y Pk Fnee                        1,102      28    1,410   1.252    2,357    41.75%  *14.95%    3,064   3,585   4,001    4,504   4,600       4,431     3.379       0ss
0    1,441   2.373    2730    2.628                       3,033   3.278    3,450   3,506   3,371       2.940     2,060        557
ovwFafbs clatem\                    3,384   4.18   6,632   12,035   9.078    23.50%  21.50%    1o.82   11,73   12.300   12,590  12.103       10,558      7.429     2.001
M       _cosnecu                      950    1,071   4,403   1,546   6,47s    82.17%   28 04%       7,122   7.051   s,8o0    6,342   56S8       4.468      2862        712
Tiang Servkce                           31     114       0        0       0               ERR          0       0        0       0        0         0          0          0
TOTAL BoRET REVENUES                18,122  .10,809  41.231   50.283   45,30    13.94%  2462%    51,653  53,056  53.317   51,851   47,82       40.200    27,345      7.144
AT 1068 CONSTANT PRCES              18,122   22,958   10,368  19.368   15,171
INDIRECT RtEVENUES
OrsaIn Om oftdes                         0       0       0        0        0
Cede ReeUe'2                             0       0       0    8,745  23,034              M6.40%    25.913  2s.237   25.009   24.6e3  22,244    1.18,8     12.001     3,031
Oae Gant (Ex Ssiy Grwnm3               636       0       0    3,809    4,5A
TOTAL INDIREFtREVENUES                 038               0   10,554                      M ^40%    25,013  26,237  25,909   24,683  22,244     18.1e8    12,001      3,031
AT 19B8 CONSTANT PRCES                 838       0       0    4,o05    9,233
TOTAL SOURCEOF FUNDS                16.760  30.669   41.231   60,837   73,005    33.49%  -2519%    77.568  79.205  79,227   78,535   70.006    58.336     39,346    10,175
AT IM  CONSTANT PRICES              18.760  22.956  19,366   23.434   24,40"
APPUCAllON OF FUNOS
eblitOpeat
Staff Coasts OM tGOGGran"t3          8,560   12.246  19,628   19,378   24.794    26.51%   21.50%    29,752  32,133   33,840   34,305  33.062   268.35     20,290     5.467                              1
TrOW  STrOspIt                       3,385    4.774   5,814  t3,341  14,169    4371%  .21.50%    17,003  18.383  19,343   19,656  18,.85       16.479     11.5"6     3.124                              <
Ga  ExpendIte                        1,.14   2.894  2813   5,682   12.266    61 b4%   21.50%    14,722   15,699  16,747   17,019  16,359      14,268     10.042     2.705
Maintenance &    pstr                1,010    1.160   ;,S49   3.146    2,730    33.02%  -21.50%    3,276   3,536    3,727    3,786   3,841      3.175     2,235        eo2
Od,                                   458    ;.660   4,758   8,551   4,93A    2291%   2804%         5,432   5,378    5,193   4,837   4,262      3.407      2.198       543
TOTAL IECURRENT EXPENDITURE         t5,226   23734   34,852  50.300  58,900     3539%   't90%    70.186  75.312  76,856   79,694  76,219       66.185    46,368     12,442
AT IO8800NSTANTPRICES               t5.22S  :A.753   16,376   19.375   19,693
SURPLUS FOR CAPITAL EXPEND.          3,533   ts.9S   8,369   10,537   14,10t    26.58%
ACTUAL CAPITAL E*PDURE\4             2.452   6,299   5,235   8,755    6,003    -1 59%    ER         7,380   3,963     370   (3,1601  (6.123)    (7.777)    (7,022)    t2.2871
AT 1088CON$TANTPFRICES               2.452    4.712   2,459   3,372    2,007
NoW 1                 Includes vrIous lcence fees, mrtns, Ctt
Notb 2                ien reveuet are gambng & entet    et taxes cotd centraly and assigned to D As.
Note 3                Smlary Grrnt paId tOy CentaJl Govrmnt has been excluded from ncome and expendtture
Note 4                This Incudes smel rehabilitatson *oIts ad some now construction
Note 5                This is hthe spefc loan provlson for O&M funds
DISTRICT ASSEMBLY                           HO
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRICES
TOWN:                 HO                   DISrICT ASSEMBLY         HO                                                             C 000
1903    1994    1995    t096    1997        196S      1999       2000
TOTAL D0RECTEVENUES                                                                      15.23%    51,653  58.953  67,490   77,08 6S9,293   103,212    119704    139,309
TOTAL NDIRECT REVENUES                                                                   12'50%    25,913  29,152   32.796   36,606   41,508   40,56t     52,533    59,100                            0Q  $f
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE                                                              1939%    70,186  83,680   99,818  119,124  142,228    169,676    202,978    242.609                              :
ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR OEVELOPMENTi                                                         ERR       7.3S0   4,426     469   (4,723) (11,425)   (19,968)   (30,736)   (44.200)                             t  r
NET PROJECT SAPACT                                                                                   419     440    (705)  (9.904)    702      28,513    44,500     34,224                            0  X;
TOTAL WITH PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CAPABIUTY                                                  ERR       7799    4,8S5    (236) (14.627) (10,724)    8,545     t3,761     (9.97e6
Not 1                 BalanIng  =ure -ReeuesmnusReceExpendture 



TOWN,          tKETA                  DISTRICT ASSEMOLY        KETA                                PROJECTION BASED ON CONSTANT JANUARY 1993 CED         Anmex E
CEDI OCO                 App,ood  '.3
SOURCE OFFUNOS                        1988    5989    1990    1991    I992 GROWT1H PERCFNT CONSTA    1993    1994    1995    1906    1097    1998    1999    2000
FIATE   CONTREt GROWTH
OIRECT LOCAL FEVENUES                                                          198992   1988-92   PATE
SaweRo                                 866    1.493   1,664     489    1,401    -2.10%     3.38%  .34.58%   1,401    1,281    1,107   937      751     546      320      72
PtopewtyRt                               0       1t1    260       0        0   -'00.00%    016%    ERR         0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0
ToWFeon AM Charges                   11.878  t4.308  18,980   19,741   30,165    28.0t%   52.73%  *16.15%  38,064  43,398  48,467  52,43e  5WA6N   50,389   28,161   11.095
MWkt Foe,                           5.398    r433   8,597   9,843   18,30t    35.03%   26.07%  *1315%  24205   29,026   33,823   36,023   40,433  39,011   30,373    9.052
Lany Pk Fwee                          194     316      410     182      666    20.48%     1.01%  *14.95%    892    1,044    191    1,312    1.366    1,290    984      267
0       0       0        0        0               0.00%               0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
OthetFes&ChAWesXl                    ,287  6t,63    7,923    9,71    11,197    19.03%    23.65%  -24.77%  12.877  13,327   13,453   1,102   i2,089    0.089   8,804    1,757
M    _Ue*eaus                           29      28    5,49       27    1,425   271.83%     3.96%  .1S.23%   1,782   2,004   2,199   2,326   2331    2,116   1.552      43e
Trdh6et8vt                             252     573       13  28,2    1,939                         8.41%   2,715   3,420   4,203   4,983    5,569    5.66    4,689    1,467
TOTAL OIRT REVENUES                  13,032   16,492  24,383  48,t8t   34,s95   28.A5%    77 86%  -15.91%  43,961  50,083  55,918   60,884   82,53   58,738  44,703  13,070
AT IO    WSAt4T PRICE                13.032  12,336   11,454   16,739   1,685
NOeCT FEVENUES
Oront in Nuofrmin                        0       0        0       0                        000%
Ceded Revonu2                            0       0    1,742   4,701    5,                8.58%  -28.40%   5.830   5,003   s,829    8,663    5.005   4.002   2,700     882
Otrraw t .3 S* (Ex aey Gran)X3         376   2,206   4,748   9,899   10,4. 1              15.55%
TOTAL IN  BC? REVENUES                 378    2.206   8,400  14,400   15,8. i             22.14%  .20 40%   5.630    5.003    5,829   5,563    5,005    4.092   2700    662
AT 1086 CONSTANT PRICES                378    1,682   3.049   5,547    5.2.3.
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNOS               13,408   14. 701  30,873  e3,048            39 32%.  100 00%   i679%  P1),791  55.98e  61,605  88.237   67,543   e2.830   47,403   13,752
AT 196 CONSTANT PRICES               13.408  3.3 98e   14,502  24,285   18G.II'.
APPIUCATION OF FUNDS
Routn Operfeono                                                                                                                                                                                          0
SffCoste*(NeotdGMGGantf'3            4.293   7.131   8,427   90596 2e             -26 .31%   19137%  -2804%   1,076   3.045    2,940    Z739    2,413    1.929    1,245  307
TrA" a Ttonoport                     2.377   .1911    4,92e   8,e28   11.4 I   S7 60%    177.5A.  1823%  14,286   18,049   17.89   16,6,0   1.604   16,988   12.431    3,48e
GefloExpendltue                      1,198    '374    2.264   2,810   O,    63 B8%         8.8%   '495%   1.878    9,217   10.518  11,579   12,058   15.393    .686    2.535
Maentenance& Repir                     744     479   1,ss8    1,275   1i. I    4 12%       4 13%   2104%   1,879    I,86    1,796    1,4873    1,474    1.t?9   780     188
Other                                  200    *690    1,922    7,896    4.",    3902%.    92%  21 . 50%   5.448   .884   e,l98    6.299    6.055   5.280    3,716    1.001
TOTALR ECURRENT EXPENDITURE          8,8611   '.589   19.097  28,195   2e.,-    2204%    5933%  -18f89%   :,2,546   3e.055  39,061  40,929   40.6e4  36.737  26.830    7,520
AT1988CONSTANTPRICES                 8.81t  10.913   8,971   10,860    a.n
SURPFUS FOR CAPITAL EXPEND           4,597    4.111   11,776   34,853   24.o    80,19%   48.45%
ACTUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE14         2,158    0769   9,9906  3,9    18,R-,       4.76%   4067%  13353%  81244   19,93t  22,744  25,308   26.879   26.093  20.563    6.232
AT 1968 CONSTANT PCES                2.150    :9    4,897   13,042    5,6
Note I                Includs variout llkence tee.., rwnt,  trc
Note 2                Thoet rOutnue 8s0 gaOJbink) & OlteItnrnet  t   tOss collcted Ce trally and eSsIgned to D As
Note 3                tbory Grant petd by Centre loeomrmt has be0m eXClkded fto Incomne and e.pendtufe
Noft 4                This InCludes sn11 tWoWbIitecn wotns and some rew corAtrhucti
Note 5                This Is th specIc ton ptow...-n fort 0M funds
DISTRtCT ASSfIbBLY                        KETA
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRCES
DIS lRICT ASSEMBLY       KETA                                                                  C 00
1993    1994    1995    1N99    1997    19"s    199    2000
TOTALOIRECT REVENUES                                                                              28.54%  43,961   55,048   70,85e  90,709  116,897  150,608  195.686  25406 7D
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES                                                                           12.50%   5,830   8,559    7,379   8,301    9.339   10,506   11,819  13,296                             o
TOTAL FECURtENTEXPENDITURE                                                                        2399%  32,546  40,081   49,444  61,160   75,80   94.322  117.490  146,634                                  La
ADOMTONAL FUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENT\                                                                  32.17%  17,244  22,145  28,790  37,833   50,156   0e,992  90,017  121,530
NET PROJECT IMPACT                                                                                            0        0   (1,093)   9,18) (14,039)  (5.203) (10,854) (30,294t
TOTAL WFTH PROJECT OEVELOPMENT CAPABIUTY                                                          2687%   17,244  22,145  27,897   28,683   36      01,769   79,163   9t,236
Note I                BalwncIng igNure. - Renutesm nus Recurrent Exptendture



TOWN:           ~~KoPoRIOUA               DISTRICT ASSEMBLY           NEW .t-A8EN                                PROJECTtON BASED ON CONSTANT JANUAY I99  CE0I                  AnSlex 
0501 '000                  AppLr4ix  1.i4
SOURCES Of FUNDS                           1908     1909     1990     1991      I .2  GR0OWTH    P.RCEN1   CONSTANT         1993      1991.    199$     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
RATE      CONTRIB    GROWTH
DIRECT LOCAL REVENUES                                                                  1989-92    1988-92       RtATE
Basic Rate                               2,289    1,774   3,02?    2,037         305    -44.37%         2.44%  -1.87%        458       618      814    1,034   1,242    1,355    1,192       401
Property Rtates                          1,095    7,960   3,015    4,064       4,S64    *16.92%         5.77%  -34.58%     4,564    4,108   3,606   3,054   2,446   1,770   1,043            234
lotal Pme  and Charse,                  28,254  56,342  71,078  84,595   852,10    14.81%              84.27Y -16.20%.  107,566 122,657 '136,965 148,112 152,047 142,086 107,475  31,204
Market fees                           20,278  38,086  46,526  52,849   43, '5S9         4.74%        52.16%  -13.15%    58,090  69,404  80,873   90,915  96,678  93,277  72,624   21,643
Lorry Park Fees                        A, 197   5,792   9,296   13,985   1i.,' "1    24.30%          11.37% -14.95%   15,171  17,750  20,255  22,299  23,221   21,940  16,728   4,182
0        0        0        0         :'                   0.00%                  12       1 1       9        a        6        5        3        1
Other fees L Charges \1                .779  12,464  IS,256  17,761    29- 9~   33.75%               20.73%  *24.77%   34,292  35,492  35,828  34,891  32,142  26,865  18,120   4,678
Miscellaneows                            '.182    1,1.33   5,908      CLI7                 '.'1         4.69% -18.23%      1,857   2,090   2,293   2,427   2,430   2,208   1,619             454
Tr.V0i,q Servict,                          831'   2,7111   2,901    I.                                   .'.z0                          0        0        0         0       0        0        0
TOTAL. DIRECT REvENULb,                 ",.,458  70,291  85,930                              LSI'% .1  ..M  99.61% -.26.S41%  114,446 129,473 143,677 154,627 158,166 147,426 11`1,328  32,293
A' 1908 CONSTANT PRICES                 . 4S8  52,578  40,365  3'-i. !.  ~L               4.1
INDIRECT REVENUES
Grant in lieu of rates                       0        0         0        0                              0.00%
Ceded Revenue\2Z                             0         0        0        0         i0.00%4                                     0        0        0 ....   0         0        0        0        0
Other Grants (Ex Salary Grant)\3         1500        0         0        0                             0.39%
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENuES                  ",500        0        0         (u        J                   0.39%                   0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
AT 1988 CONSTANT PRtCES                  1,500        0        0         0 
TOTAL SOURCE OF AUNOS                   3h%,9S8  70,291  85,930  101,511   9...           .'.23%     100.00%  -16.54%   114,446  129,473 143,677 154,627 158,166 147,426 111,328  32,293
AT 1988 CONSTANT PRICES                 .t-.,958  52,578  40,365   39,101    1,
APPLICATION OfFPUNDS
Routine Operations
Staff Costa (Net of GOG G'.ant)\3       ;:'. 354  40,623  58,517  511,4      4     I,    ii .47%      51.09% -28.0411   45,317  44,864   43,319  40,352  35,S56  28,427  18,340   4.,529                                  -
Travel & Transport                       ..401   6,572   9,066   12,077    P. 7!          7. I12%.     9.53% -18.23%    10,097  11,359  12,464  13,193  13,211  12,002   8,7`99   2,469
General Expenditure                      ..649   8,747  10,825   11,866   3d,. ..:1    0*.61%         16.94% -14.95%   47,997  56,157  64,081  70,546  73,464  69,411  52,92    15,445
Maintenance & Repair                     1,168   2,800   2,266    2,092       2. i'.      9.36%        2.42% -28.04%    2,293    2,270   2,192    2,042   1,799   1,439            928,    229
Other                                      455    1,626    1,745    1,510    5/.,8    '$1.54%          2.55% -21.50%       6,789   7,332    7,723   7,848   7,544   6,580   4,631   1,248
IOTA). RECURRENT EXKENITURE            1Z,026  60,368  82,419  86,937    93, .S9    15.88%            82.52% -19.84%  112,494 121,903 129,779 133,982 131,575 117,858  85,621  23,920
AT 198  CONSTANT PRICES                 32,028  45,155  38,716  33,487   31 ..8           98.1%
SURPLUS FOR CAPtIAL EXPEND.             ..930   9,923   3,510  14,574    ('.'.)                        7.10%
ACTUAL CAPITAL EXPENOITURE\4             1,646   10,591  14,725   18,1488   -V. -4       38.07%        17.48%  23.13%      1,951    7,490  13,898  20,645  26,591  29,568  25,707   8,373
AT 1908 CONSTANi PRICES                  ,'. I6   7,922   6,917    7,1711      4
Note I                 Includes various -icence fees, rants, etc.
Notie 2                These revenus a.. gambting & ontertainiment taxes co(ir.ted centrally and assigned to D As.
Note 3                 S,ta. y Grant pat.. ty Central GovernmeNnt hnes beeni axe t .k*,d itrom inco1mc* and expenditure
Note 4                 This inclUdell sU0x.' rettabititation works and -somxe new  onstruction
Note 5                 This is the specific toan provision for 0614 furds
SUMMRY FORECAST tN CURRENI PRtICES
TOWN:                  KOFORIOUA               DISTRICT ASSEMBLY           NEW .f 'B(EN                                                                      C 1O0O
1993     1994     199      19       1997     1998    199        00 
TOTAl. OiRtECT RE1JEII4ES                                                                                      27.58%   114,446 143,859 181,870 231,132 295,140 378,511 487,343 629,706 
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES                                                                                                       0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDIIURIt                                                                                   22.53%   112,494 135,537 164,278 200,273 245,521 302,596 374,809 466,430
ADDITIONAL FUNDS TOP DEVEI.OPIEN1\1                                                                            88.22%     1,951    8,322   17,592  30,859  49,619  75,914 112,533  163,276
NET PROJECT IMPACT                                                                                                          456      456      (861) (9,981)  3,726  36,829  53,695  40,7171
TOTAL WIT$ PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CAPABI :IT                                                                     88.55%    2, 4.0    8,779  16,751  2.0,878  53,344 112,744 166,229 203,993
Note I                 Balancing figure.  Revenues ci;nus Recurrent Expendit,



TO:                   SWEDFIU               0187107 ASSEMB9LY         AG    SWENAWEDRU                    PRJECTKON BASD ON CONStANT JANAIRY 1090 CED            An=  5
CEDI 0D                  AppendIr 1.5
OURFC OPRI                            toed ts           teS0    test    19d2  GoIwrt  PE4RCENT CONSTA    1993    1994    sees    lNs             97    1996    low       200
RATE   CONT0TI1     GfOWTi
DMU)CALIE6WENLSS                                                                190942   109892   RATE
UnIdf.                                1,134    1,062    1.354    1,330    1,413   0.08%      .45%  *2&.4% .,584 t,539    1,466    1,304    1,220         975      6n       106
PRO"_faa                               326      m       8a    1,136   1,952    58.16%       2e62%  14.95%   2,537   Z,96      3,ft6    0,729   304    3,00    279         6l0
Tdu  Few ed Che                        .631   16S   22,927   31,65   39,s26    26.70%    67.21%  .16.25%  48,204    3,702   59.142      589   65.367   e1.56   4163   13,s28
11 bm FM                             5,405    8.478   13,044  18.444    1.28,4    29.13%    33.76%  .18.23%  226s17   2,070   29,1685  29,614   29,6S3  27,121   19.804    5,60
La* Palk FSr 840    3,068   3,526    s,t70   0o,296    49.38%    12.44%   4AI%  t4.401   18,145   296   20.438   2E,647  30.16   24,770    7,705
0       0        0       0        0               0.00%                0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
OiwFe& Charge                        3,766    6,42   axe,a    10,2as   10,966    W653%    21.00%  .34.58%  10A.96    9,867    8,07e   730    s,887    4,279    2,810      633
Uhaibmeama                             642    2,040   11.101    9,461    6.084    50.12%    17.15%  *2804%   8.71    0,782    6,470    7,699    6.960    5.564   3.s90     o96
TeadhoSat e'                           410      342     273      160   (1,50A          *34.58%  (1,66)  (1.406)  (1,236)  (1.047)   (m39)    (10                  m8       (6Q
TOTALOaECTREAENES                    12,34   22,473   36,80   43,6971   49,390    30.01%    90.22%  '17.35%  5.601   65,568   71,208   78,864   7s.612   71,160   53.022   18,06
AT "SSOONrANTlPRIOCES                12,344  1t.s10  17,160   18.0a7  1U513
GrubIUmlcE                               0        0       0        0        0               0.00%
C4dewenu                                 0        0       0    4,828   11,269               0.82%  *26.40%  12.8    t2,s36   12,678  1zo76   10,663    S,9        A71    1,463
O6'mGrenb(ExSsluyGra,q'i3                0        0    1.782       0        0               0.6%
TOTAlINIIWOTIE'NJES                      0        0    1,782    4,625   11,2S               9.78%   26.40%  '2,678   12,63s   1267s   t2,076   10,683    6.898    5.671    1,463
AT 1966 0ONST7A   PFTR                   0        0     623    t.8      3,78f
TOTAL SO1FCE OF FUNOS                12,34   22.473   36,260  40,795   M0,8s9    3923%   100.00%  -18.55%  72,279   78,419  863934   67,640   67,494   8D.063   80.093   17,189
AT isMCOIrTANT PIIces                12,344   16,810   17,973   16789  20,29t
APPUCATiON OF RJNOS
SWCosb  1de00GGnItt3                  2,814   4,020    4.036   64797    60ft7    26.24%    1416%  -21.50%   9,704   10,461   11,040   11219   10,74    9.405   6,629    1,763
Tr" a  Trenpoit                       1.896    4,76   7t202   t0,138   15.344    47.75%    21.62%  .21.50%  18.413  1s,808  20,947  21,26   20,481   17,648   12,660   3,364
Generl   Expd .                       4,666    6,00    3,11    3,217    4,318    *o0.9%    1 i.99%  '34.8%   4,318   3,680    3,411    2,689    2,314    1,662    066     Z1
m_lIIhaI0&RS.I                        1,147    Z124    3,72    6e,201    5.6     40.24%    10.53%  '21.50%   7,031    7,03    7 7,0    6.129    7,613   6,614    4.796    1,292
oe                                    1,110    1.30   9,501   11,707   12,002    87.i7%    19.02%  -21t50%  14,402   18,584   16,384  16,649   16,004  13,960    9,624   2,047
TOTAL *CURIENT EXPENDfTruE           11.636   16,732  26,166   36AS1   45.610    34.s3%    78.22%  -2216%  53.609   57,401  80,760  S6,7t  87,377   40.705  34,.79       0.327
AT 1960 CONSTANTPRcEBS               tt.636   14.012  13,232  14,695   *st250
SL.WLUS FORCAPFTAL EXPFND.             709    3.741   10.093   t0,645   15,04.    59.04%    2212%
ACTULCAFITALEXPEI4OITUrE               722    3.232   10(002   10,644   14,941    6656%    21.78%  *11 45%   8,410   21.016  24,154  27,409   30.117   30,356   24.907    7,662
AT 1S6 CONSTANT PROCES                 722    2.4t7   4,741   4,10o   4,998
NOte I                Inudes vto  licenoe 6tes.1 nt1, etc.
Note 2                These revn  am gmbulng B enlemt e  uaes cooced centaity an ass,ged to OAs
Node3                 Salary Grant P9kt by Cenrs Goernment has beex euded frnm Wnco"m atd eArendIt
NOWe 4                This inClude sm5145 rehabllltaton wooS end some nww cnr1n*ction
Nobb 8                This is t  spctUt bloa  rvsion toa OM _und
OSTRCT ASSEMBLY                            AGONA SWEDt
SUMMAY FOFtECAST IN CUiWT PRICES
TOWN.                 SWEOAU                DISTRICT ASSEMBLY         AGONA SWEDFULt                                                         C '000
1993    194    1096    1f96    0997    1996    19E9    200
TOTAL OIRECT RIE9ENUES                                                                              20.34%  59.601   72.6f9   90,2eo  11t.'S1  142,909  182,714  236607  306,261
TarTAL NO OT Ft EVENUSES                                                                            12 50%  12.67    t4,2S2   tS,045  t8,051   20,307  22,S45  254701  2tl,914                           OF1 .0  t1
TOTAL INOIRECT EXPENUES                                                                             18.90%  53.89   63.779   75,61   89,942  107,066  127.618  15,270  181,007
ACTIONAL FUNDS FOR DEvELOPmE" i                                                                     3536%  '6,410   23.353   30,574  41,060   56t199   77,943  t1090,   1S3,307 %,I
NET PRDJECT NPACT                                                                                             254      330    m5p(SAM6,46   (1t877   (          P7.937 AN  P4,696
TOTAL WIH PRJECT EVELOPMENT CAPASUTy                                                                31 78%  16.864  23,683   30,030  32,603   39622   70,006  100,107  126,604
Net I                   ond%  gu.Pvenue minus Pecurent ExpendIture



TOWN:                 WA                    OISTF81  ASSEMBLY         WA                                  PROJECtiON SAMED OIN COTANT JANUAt  193 CEM            AnneX 5
c05 100                  Apewndlx 1.8
SOURCES OF UNOS                        199S    1909    19S0    1991    9l9.  GPGROTH  i'EENT CONSTA    1993    1994    1995    1990    1997    1998    1999    2000
RATE   CONTRFt GROWTH
DIRECT LCAL REENUES                                                             1989-92   1988-92   RATE
l Raft                 a048                     907    2,307    2,483    ,04     27.02%     6.86%  *18.23%   2,554   2,873    3,163    3,337    3,342   3,038  8252        6
PropeitturNels                         850      S89      737    7286   1,04      20.93%     6.70%  -21.8%   1,249    1,349    1,421   1.444    1,368   1,210      86       22
Totl Fee  nd Chegee                   9,818   14,8   23,595   2,260   22,19       13.96%    666% -2542%  25,6   25,792   25,789   24,841  22682   16,809   1,599    3,34
Maiket Fe                            2,075    4,038   7,287    7,028    5,42     10.32%    17.22%  -28.04%   5,964    5,904   5,701    5,310    4,673    3,741    2,413   598
ornyPwkfom                            274      606      536    1,570    1.1f    24.75%     2.76%  -18.23%   1,450    1,631    1,7S0    1,898    1,397    1,724    1,284   385
0       0        0       0                        0.00%                0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
OewFen&0h&fqw\1                      7,165   10,350   15,773   19,868   185,OC   14.84%    48.68%  -25,4?%  17,794   18,258   1,289   17,036   16,108   13.344   692    2,203
Melo tnou                                0      4s8      971    1,760    1,35/    45.06%    3.08%  .14.95%   1,809    2,117    2,415    2,89    2,769    2.818    1,,98    862
Tt&GSet8A                               370      57      144     726       :                        .34.58%     34      31       27       23       la      13       8        2
TOAL  tCECT REVENUS                  12,480   17,093  27,754   40,486   28,7:    16.03%    82.04%  -2364%  30,884   32.181   32,77    32,304   30.199  28,684   17.679   A.672
AT 19e8 CONSTANT PRICES              12,40   12.7e8   13.037   18,e84    6.9:
INOFC-CT 8REENUES
Gtahtn Inat of uste                      0        0        0       0                        0O.%
Oeced Revenu2                            o        0        0    8,919   16,9 S             16.87%  -W2.40%  21.313  21,579   21,310   20,301   18.205  14.95s    9,870   2493
OfletGrta   (8EX  i Gonq\3             78         0        0       0 o                      0.80%
TOAL NOW4M REVENUES                    780        0        0    8,910   18,9 5             17.06%  .26.40%  21,313   21.679   21,310   20,301   16,25   14.980    9,670    2493
AT 198 CONSTANT PRCES                  70         0        0    2,280    0,3 4
TOTAL SOURCE OF fUNO                 13,230   17,093  27,784   4,378   48,8 5    36.74%   100.00%  *24.69%  52,167   53,741   54,064  62,80S   48,404  40,843  27,60    7,168
AT t9  COTANT PRCES                  13,230   12,785   13,037  17,s84  '18, 1
OfPUCATO RFUNOS
RouUt"OperalwrIs
SlW COs Po oGGranl\3                  ?.e2    7,457   10,887   14,98      .t.t 4    -40.8%    38.36%  .24.77%   1,799    1,   1,680    1,831    1888   l,40s      951      245
T11vl &Ttmpot                         2,072    2,07    7,894   10,220    8.1 -2    47.37%    23.75%  .18.23%   8.303    9.340   10,246   106848   1.063   9.869   7.235    2,030
Geea Etttote                           428    1,802    2,831    6,002    2, 9      985%    10.96%  -28.04%   2,628    2,602    2,612   2,340    2062    1,648    1,o04     263
Melntenanae&Repae&                     ale      s88    3,148     969    3,; t2    76.84%    716%  -21.50%   3,60s    4,201    4,425    4,497    4,323    3.770   283       715
oia                                   4,378    1,395    3,889    2,951    2.- '6    20.06%    12.2A%  -21.50%   2,896    3,129    3,296    3,350    3,220    2,608    1,7  632
TOTAL fECURRENhTEW PENOITURE         1S.848   13,316  27,997   35,159   16, ,2    6.88%    99.66%  .20.69%  19,517  21,135  22,32  22,866   2.54   19,805  13,879    3,7e6
AtT 198 COWANT PRCES                  ,S6S    9,962   13,12   13,s43   8. 14
SURW FORCAPITAL EXPEND.              (2,418)   3,778    (243)  I1,219   29  13   96.21%    34,52%
ACTALALEXPTAALENLWIE4                  043       84    2,000    3,312    6. 12   366.10%    10.34%  -27.e0%  32,640   32,o06   31,73   29,?40   26.340  21.1i3   13,0    a337
AT988COSTANTPRICES                      43       46      939    1,276    2 i7
Nat a                 Includes various icence fees, mts, ae.
Not 2                 Thes rvenues a gambin & enteetanment Was corected  -allaw4 s a.stgn  to 0 As
No"e 3                Ss" Grant paid by Central Govenment   been excluded   n income and enEpenditurt
Nte 4                 This indco   smaN X   ift6   wot w,4 wm new conf5   -,n
Not 5                 Ttst hi Ue specfic loa pvisn for O0M fundS
OSTRCTASS8MOLY                             WA
SU&MARY FORECAT IN CURRNT PRCES
TOWM:                 WA                    OSTRICTASSEM8LY           WA                                                                     C ^OO
1993    1994    iSS6    1996    U97    l9ow        198    2000
TOTAL DERECTVEWNUES                                                                                 16.73%  30.Qe4  35,735  41,487   46,267   SQ351  65.94    72        91.100                       g  s 
TOTAL INDiRECT F ENUES                                                                              1250%  21,313  23.977   28,974   30,348   34,139   38,407   43207   46.6ee                        0 0
TOTAL RLSCUFPENEXPENOETLJE                                                                         20.93%  19,117  23,483   28,306   34,179   41,339   60.070  69.766   73,818                       0'
AOMOT ALFUNDS FOR OEVELOPM tNw                                                                      10855%  32,849  36,22    40,150   44,454   49,S11   54,M    89,643  6,391n
N  PPOJECTdPAT                                                                                                128 ts l0         0)  (8,18    (6,83      3,476 sa028 15.710)
TOTAL WITH PFOJECT OEVELOPMENWCAPABUTY                                                               901%  32,774   36376   39.605  38,270   42.318   57,746   ".671  69,181
NoI                   sefi   a"e - Revenus minus Recurren Expensllure



TOWN:                CAPE OOAST           DISTRICT ASSEMBLY        CAPE COAST                          PROJECTION BASEO ON CONSTANT JANUARY 193 CEDI    AM" 5
CE0601000               App*nd, 1.7
SOURCEsOFfUNIOS                      1968    4909    1990    1991    145,' ,t;I)WtIIl PI IIINt CO)NSTA    1993    1994    t995    t998    1997    t990    1009    2aoo
RATE   CONTRI Et ROWTH
W          X LOCALLREVENUES                                                  1989e92   1988-92   RATE
BaabRet.                            1,920   2.428   3.218   2,011   2.358    *0.96%    4.91%  -31.31%   2,476   2340   2,57   1,0t8    1,813   1,231         7s6     179
PFp4eys                             2.947   5,308   4.929   8,0e9   7,016       363%    11.46%  -31.31%   7,366   8.981   8,416   5,705    4,798   3,662   2,258     532
Totdl Fe" Wand Charges              11,752  23,904  38,334  33,487  33,807    12.25%    55.34%  *26.70%  37,108  36,941  36,002  34,016  30,543  24.994  18,574   4.223
MalFetFt                            7,292  14,528  15.874  13,577   14,493    -009%    25.79%  -33.93%  14,032  13,301   11,792  10,088   8,180   5.990   3,548     80m
Lohty Park Fees                      980   3,375   6.266   50896   6.100    2181%       954%  -21.50%   7.320   7,905   8,327   8.482    8,134   7.004   4,993    1,345
0       0       0        0       0               O 00%              0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Otf rFeesa&ChWges 1                 3,480   8,001   18,194  14,P04   13,220    30.11%    21.04%  -24.77%  15,203  15,735  15,883  15,488   14,249  11,910   8.033   2,074
Mkcena,wou                            455   4,588   9,540    4,615   10,394    31.35%    134 %  -t4.95%  13,512  15,809  18,040  19,860   20.81   19,540  14,099   4,348
TI.dIIISkviCS                         102  10,393   1,211      814   1,093                      3458%   1,093    9084      864      731     586     426      250      56
TOTAL OECT RFENUES                  17,178  47.614  67,230  49,576  54,868      4.71%   84361:%  .2363%  61,603  63,036  63,479  82,230   50,222  40.853   34.736   9,338
AT 10ONSTANT PRICES                 17,176  35,615  28,883  19,096  18.278
INWECT REVENUES
Gtant In Nleur d  erfs                  0       0        0       0                           'W.
Ceded RevenWel2                         0       0        0   4,467   t3.7                7 I,,  -26840%  t5,523   15,717   15.521  14,786   13,325  10.895   7,189   1,816
Otawranta(E (aIaIyGra)"\3             750       0   10,000       0                       42 1
TOTALINDIRECCrREVENUES                750       0   10,000   4,487   13,7:              V 1 37%  -2640%  15,523  15,717  15,521  14,786   13,325  10,895    7.tS9    1,816
AT10689CONSTANT FPRCES                750       0   4,897   1,721    4.6,1
TOTALSOUPCEOFFUNDS                  17,928  47.814  67,230  54,043  68,4.      12.87%   100.0(%  -2414%  77.126  78,753  79,000  77,016   71,547  80,748  41,925  11.153
AT 188 CONSTANT PfRCES              17,926  35,615  31,581   20,817  22,8
APPlUCATION OF FUNDS
RfuLn Opraltlns
Staff Costs (NetotGOGGranIA3         7,379  13.947  20,291   22,889   21.43$    15 40%    3. 8tS  -24 77%  24,651  25,513  25.754  25,081   23,'05   19.311   13,025   3.383
Travel8,Tmansport                    4.468   9.132   10,425  12,151   13.310    1357S    14s 5NY%.. 2e40%  15,048  15,236  15,040  14,334   12,917  10,562   *3989   1.780
Genwral Expefldltre                  3,369   8,782   7,472   7,719   11,176     8 17%   1! 15%  2804%  12,293   12,170  1,751   10,94    9,645   7,711   4.975   1.229
Maintenanc c&Repair                   847   2.789    1.415   2,078   8,447    4491%      8 14%  -21 50%  0,185   10,999  14,566  11,774   11,318   9.871   e.947    1.872
Otter                                   0       0    2.553   5,200   9,5s7      EnR      e 83% e 21 50%  I1t518   12,437  13,10   13.313   12,797   I16l    7.856   2,118
TOTAL RECURfENT EXPENDITURE         16,063  34,650  42,156  50,038   64,071    22 74%   81 4.1%  -24 48%  73.693   76,357  77.236  75,448  e9.782  568e.1    39.772  10,339
AT 1988 CONSTANT PFRCES             16,063  25,918  19,802  19,273   21.4?2
SURPLUS FOR CAPITAL EXPEND.          1,863  42,964  25,074   4,007   4,3 .6   3027%   19 00%
ACTUALCAPITALEXPENDITURE\4            330  13.233  21,549   5,708   6,3,4   -21 61%   1857%  -1858%   3,433   2,396    1.762   1,568    1,765   2,132   2,153        815
ATI988CONSTANT PRICES                 330   9,689   10,123   2,199    2.11
Note I               Includes vwatous lience fOes, rents, etc
Note 2                The  revenues we gambling & entrtinment taxa coltected ce trally and assulned tc 0 As
Note 3               Satary GrantpaId by Certrat Goemment has been ececluded Iro. ncorne and egpondi'ure
NOe 4                This Includes smatn rehe'. 'itation work rtnd some new construcb, n
Note a               This  the spec4ic otan,   shion for O&t funds
DISTRICT ASSEMBLY                        CAPE ODAST
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURREWT PRICES
TOWN-                CAPE COAST           DtSTPICT ASSEMBY         CAPE  OAST                                                           C 000
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1900    1999    2000
TOTAL OIRECTREVENUES                                                                            18.75%  61.803  70.039  60.353  03,0t9  108,644  127,906  152.06   182,0855                        't
TOTALIN01RECTIREVENUES                                                                         12.50%  15.523  17,484  19.847  4102   24,665  27,973  31,470  36.404                             t8
TOAL FE)URNT EXPENDITURE                                                                        15.46%  73,693  84,841  97,770  112,778  130,216  150,495  174.103  20t,605 1                         v
ADOMT1ONAL FUNDS FOR OEVELOPMtENTIi                                                             24.48%   3,433   2.862   2,230   2,344   3,293   5,474   9.427  15,884                                   I,,
NET PROJECT IWACT                                                                                         737      773     143   (4014)  28,388  49,ft7  102.708  10D,278                         0
TOTAL WitHf PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CAPASUTY                                                        60.85%   4,170   3,438   2.373  (3.869)  29.882   75,39t 112,34  116.1t60 
NOt I                Balancing figure . Reveues  nnus mRecurrent Expendlture                                                                                                                      r



TOWN:                 ELMINA                DISTR4CT ASSLY            KOMEIt A-EOINA FGt AFO-ASIREM       P'ROJECTION BASED ON CONSTANT JANUARY 993 CED          Annex 5
CEDI OO                  ApPendix 18
SOURCES OF "NaS                        18    lo96       1990    1991    t1      n CU iWIII 11 fIC(NI CONSTA    1993    994    1995    1996    1097    1991    19N99   2000
RATE    X2'ONTRIS GROWTH
O-RSECTLOCL REVENUES                                                            1W9.92   1988-92   RATE
SMsic Fte                             ,159    1.348    2,148    2,707    2,5     2303%     8.650%  .1953%   3.087    3.417    3,890    3,843    3,787    3.385    2,442   874
Pope6Pat                               533    1,089    1,07t   t,842    4,4*      5932..    ? '9%  .14 951.  '724    6,697    7,642    8.413    8,761    8,278   6,312    1.842
TalFeas and Chge"a                    6,290   9,140   14.907   15,399   18,71     27.18%    50.23% s21 18%   x00   23.482   24,550   24,922   24.074   21.215   15.183    4.168
Ma*ateefts                           1,6"0   2,152    2,955    3,242    4,3N     28.04%    12.,s7%  -.7 57%    .429    6,157    8,803    7_288   7,333   8.716    4,k93    1.404
Lovy ParkFera                          107     151      468     679      5t      54.98%     1 T1%  -841%      785     989    1,215    1,441    1,816    1.844    1.350    424
828    1,943   3,478    4,063    4,3-              I1 74%            4,317    3,885    3,410   2.808    2,313    ,681      90W     221
OtwhefFee& 11arw e                   3,707    4,894    8,09    7,415    9,6t     2522%    291'%  21 50%  11.529   12,451   13,115   13,328   12,812   11.174    7,864   2,119
Mbodltaeo                               53      935    1,222    ,875      7.,    .7.3t ,,    4 21%   34 581.    745    670      588      498     399      290      170      38
Tus.t some"                               0     318      5e3      38      31                        29 67%     420     406      383      349     301      235      148      36
TOrAL DIRECTFEVENUES                  8,036   t2,29   19,911  21,681   2.0.14    27.90%    77.97%  0993%  32.038   34,673   38,854  38.028   37.322   33.403   24235    8,758
AT 198CONSTANT PfRCES                 0,038    9.596    9,353    8,421   8,97
INOIRCT REVENUES
Gof"Intf Neut i*ta                       0        0               0                        0 0%
Ceded Renfluno                           0        0        0    4,788   17,1               19.011%  -26 40%  l1.245   19.488   19.242   18.332  16,50   13.5M8    8.913    2,251
OtIter Grants 9 Selay Grant\3         3,390       0        0       0                        2 95%
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES               3,390       0        0    4,788   17,11              22 03%   ;8 40%  1i0.245   19,488   19,242   18,332   16,520   13.500    8.913   2,251
At 1968CONStANTPRICEI                 3,39D       0        D    1,94    517;
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                11,426   12.829   19,911   28,849   43,9.    5075%   10000%  -2200%  51,281   54,159   58,096   58.350   53,842   46.910   33,147    9.009
AT 1986 OONSTANT PRICES              11,426    9.596    9,353  1o,265   14,8
APPUCATION OF FUNDS
Rlutine Opmtaftt
Sts,fCoeS(NetC ofOGMrasqt)%3          3,475    4,579    7,344    7.069    8,7'    23 S0%    27.53%  .21 50%  10,451   11,287   11,889   12,0816  11,813   10,128    7.129    1,'0
TrVel&Transport                         988    2,534    3,768    5,741    8,3     48.62%    18.85%  .21.50%   9,981   10,779   11,354   11,365  11.091    9,873    6.808    1,834
General ExpendNw                      1,680    2,617    3,753   4,539    6,8.     37.86%    1715%  .21.50%   8.194    8,850    9,322    9.473    1.106    7,941    5.589    1.506
Maintenance&Repalr                    1,094     966      223    1,316    3,01     46.38%    5.93%  *21.50%   3,709    4,006    4,220    4,286    4,122    3.595    2,530   882
Oti*r                                 1,472   1,819   2,52    3,6507    48. 1   33.62%    12.63%  *21.50%   5.813    6,278    6,813    6,720    6,460    5.634    3.965    1,068
TOTAL ftECURFRENTEXPENDITURE          6,706   t2,534   17,848   22,271   31,7     3G.37%    82.09%  *2150%  38.146   41,199   43,397   44,100   42.391   38,972   26,021    7,010
AT 19BB CONSTANT PfRCES               8,708    9,375    8,290    8,579   10,6.
SURPLIVS FOR CATAL EXP(ND.            2,720     295    2.283   4.377   12,1      245.26%    1927%
ACTUAL CAPITAL EXPENOITURE\4          2263      984    2,157    8,959    7,9.    10043%    1791%  23 58%  13.133   12,959   12,699   12,258   11,450    9.936    7.126    1,999
AT 198f CONSTANT PRICES               Z263      736    1,013   2,881    2,6
Note I                Incfudes vasr-os, licence fhes, reft, etc.
Note 2                These ~faenues are gamnbing & entfinmeenl tsxes collected ce -ally and asg,ged to  As
Note 3                Salsry Grant pad by Cntral Govwermnent has been excluded for ncome and expenditure
NOte 4                7hh includes sna rehablllUtslon wOIf ad Sotke rnew cort9svc
Note S                This Is the specific loan provIson for O&M lunds
DISTFCT ASSEMMLY                           KOMENDA-EQINA-E
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRICES
TOWN                  ELMINA                DISTRICT ASSEMBLY         KOAF4  )A-EOINA-E15 ,AFOO-ABRFt                                       Co000
t993    1994    1995    to99o      997    1998    1o99      2.000                          0  '
TOTAL DIECT fEVENUES                                                                                2239%  32,036   38,526   46,850   55,840   89,643   85,760  108,069  131,783                         '      I m
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES                                                                             1250%  19.245   21,851  24,387   27,402   30,927   34.880   39,015  43,6J2                            0 i.
tOTAL RECURREN EXPENDITURE                                                                          20.00%  38,148   45,777   54.933   85,919   79,o03   94,924  113,906  138,690
ADlOMONAL FUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENI\1                                                                   t682%  t3,t33   14,399   16,075  18,322   21.3e6   25,516   31,196   36.065                          t1
NE'T PJEeCT IPACT                                                                                             572      744     267   (358) (16A371)  (,A133)  (5,704) (22e,931
TOTAL WITH PROJECT OEVELOPMENT CAPABIUIY                                                             250%  43,705   15,143  18,382   z2984    4,995   19.383   25,491   10.292
Note I                Balancing ligwe * Revenues minus Fecufrrent Expenditure



TOWN                  BOLGATANGA             DISTRICT ASSEMBLY        BOLGATANGA                 PRC    TItON BASED ON CONSTA'T JANUARY 13 CEDM          Annex 5
CElDI 000                Appendix 19
SOURCES OF FUNDS                        IN88    1968    19t0 1881    1902  GROWTH CONSTA               31Q3    1994    1995    1898    1997    1996    *999    2000
RATE   GROWTh
DIRECT LOCAL RVENUES                                                            1989-92   RATE
BasicRide                                  0   2,973   2,188    1,487   1,159   *26.12%  -41.12%       079     874      890     526      37      248      131      26
PopeM Raed                                 0    2,106    1,289    1.960   3,110    13.67%  *25.42%     s45   3,637    3,640    3,514   3,209    2,658    1.778    455
To  Fees and Chges                         0   47,9s6   51,170   54,238   55,579   5.04%  -29.58%      015  56.582   53,068   48,219  41,373  32,t35  20747    5,067
Mear'l.Feew                               0   25,304  22,853   26,089  23,916    -1.86%  .34.58%      916   21,525   18,894   18,000   12,817   8,315    5.463    1,227
Lony Palk Fes                             0   4,385   4,887   3,O06     5,401     7.36%  -30.00%      779   5,565    5,227    4,736    4.058    3,157    1.981   476
826    1,043   3.478   4,063    4,317                        .r80    5,594    5.883   5,988    5.756   5,020    3.533    952
OIw iFees&Cha,gesX1                       0   18,346  19.952  21,010   21,945     0.32%  28.04%       140  23.898   23,075  .1,495   18.,40  156142    9769    2.412
MiscedtlAn                                 0     883   2,427    3,122   5,810    87.39%   18.23%       23     ,170   8,965    9.490    9.502    a,'3    6 329   1,776
TradlngSleet                               0       0        0       0       29            .3458%        29       26      ,,:      18      t6      It        7        1
TOTAL ODRECT FeVENUES                    826  53.920   57.083  6.,806   65,727     6.82-   27.70%      931  69,290   66,407  61.768   54,878  44.165   26 8I   7,326
AT I98 CONSTANT PRICES                   826  40,332  26,615   23.423   21.375
INDIRECT fREVE
t  entin ieu ofd vs                        0       0        0       0       0
COded ee1Ot2                               0       0        0    5,410  20,953            -26.40%      572   23,866   23,568   22,453   20.234   16,544   10.916   2,757
Otler6Grat (xSayGr  a   3                  0       0   10.Oo   2753   11,104
TOTAL INDORFEVENUES                        0       0   10,000   8,164  32,057             -26 40",    .572  23,866   23,586   22,453  20.234  16,544   10,916   2757
AT 197800NSTANT PRICES                     0       0   4.687   3,145   10,718
TOTALSOUDCE OF FUNDS                     826   53,920  67,063  88.971   97,783    21 95%  -2738%       .502  93,157  68,974   84,221  74.912  60,730  39,907   10,082
AT INS8 CONSTAWT PRFCES                  s2e   40,332  31,512  26,567  32.e93
APPUCATION OF FUNDS
RoP*n Opefto                                                                                                                                                                                             -
SaffCost (et ofGOG Gran])\3                0   14.297  18.821   20.222  24,381    19 41., -21.50(      .258   31,598   33.284   33.823   32.512  28.3568  t9,57   5.378
Trwl &Taipoet                              0    6,481    8,048   11,161    9,318    l-081%  26.40%     .483   10,614  10.482    8.986    6.990    7,358    4.855    1,228
Go"" Expndlt                               0    4,127   8,92s    4,815   4113    .0.12%  .31 31%       319   4,081   3,761    3,345    2E81I   2,147    1.322     312
mdtnac& RVepa                              0    1,348    1.168   3,573    2.209    17.89%  .23.13%     595   2,744    2,831    2.817    2,651    2,264   1.,00    412
o0le                                       0   11,096    8,418  13,653   14,912    1036%  .24.77%     * 149  17,749   17,917  17.448   16,073   13,434   9,061   2,338
TOTAL RECURRENT EPENDITURE                 0   37,358   41,364   53,424   54,933    13.71%  *23.63%    803  66,787  68,274   67.418  63,04s  53,s55   36,755   9.66s
AT IsOONSTANT PRICES                       0   27,944  19,440   20,57e   18,367
SURPUJS FOR CAPrTAL EXPEND.               26   16,5182   25,700   15,548  42,80    3728%
ACTUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITUREi4               0   13,879   21,620   12823   28.612    27.27%  .4588%     :69   26.370  21,701   10,803   I1.884   7,171    3,152     418
AT 19  COTANT PFRCES                       0   10,381   10,156   4,939   9.566
Nowe I                Inudes vaous ficece hfest r, eft.
Not 2                 These enenuet We gaMbling & ntamWent cd cOlecd cefrWaly an ansg.d to  As
NOW 3                 Saaty Gant pid by Central GBovenM  hu been exclud8d hta Income and expenditure
Note 4                This incles na981 rehblIon waks wn some new constuCtn
Not S                 This a at  specft lon pvison it ObM turnds
DISTRCT ASSEMBILY                         SOLGATANGA
SUMMARf FORFCST IN CURRENT PRiCES
TOWNI                 bOLGATANGA             DSTRICTASSEMBLY           9OIGATANGA                                                    C .00
1193    1994    1895    1396'    187    1998    1989    200.0 
TOTAL DIRECT RE1ENUES                                                                      10.52%      .,931   76,989  84,059  92,329  102,031  113,444  126,910  14te45                                B Z
TOTALINDIRECT REVENUES                                                                     12 50%      .572  26,516   29,033  33,562   37.757  42,477  47.7S6   53.7eo                                      N
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITUFE                                                                16 73%      ..   74,208  86,422  100,774  117,650  137,510  16,898  18i8462                                      4
AITIOAL FURRNDS FOR% DEE.PMN\                                                                                                                                                                        Oa
ADOMONAL FUNDS FOR 094EELOPENTM                                                           -17.27%     1.69'  29,300  27,489  25,117   22,138   18.411   13,798   8,143 8
NET PROJECT IMPACT                                                                                     a r     404   (1,166) 14.M131 ) (2,092)  (7.461)  (8.204) (30,7S0)                              a_.
TOTAL WITFH PROECT DEVELOPMENT CAPABU                                                       EfR        298   29,704  26,303   10,478    (854)  10,950   5,594  (22,60)                               _
Nobs I                BSan    fure - Aenwe minus Recurent Expendjce



TOWN:                SAIfrKU              OISTRIa AsuABLY          SAWKUJ                              PROJECTION  SED ON 8:ONSTANT JANUAF1Y 100 CEOI    A     5
cm vol           ~~~Appeoeb t.tO
SOUR0O'    FU s                      lose    1960  1sst       16      1962 GROTH PERCENT CON'  A   18             10094    10      1668    1007    low      1600    200
PATE   COTRIS GF   -H
0IR0 LOCALRVENUES                                                            108942   10882   RATI
Po Rif                             3,837   s62    4,t17   3,04       1.030   43.23%     4.68%  41.1 %    02?      781     663     452      328     213     113       23
Ptpet "du                           2,746   3,276 ts20    3.480    1.701   .19.05%    3s0% 437.e%   1,616   1,361    1,152         627      705     487     271       58
TOW eFana  Chug                     41,466  560814  61,231  61,246   47.437    .892%    76.04%  *31.C4%  46,83   42,028  37,3    32.516  27,329  21.308  13,732   3,472
FeM Pem                           116,823   10.266  18,281   18,205   13,266   -11.08%    23.54%  -37 P',%  12,e24  *0,793   9,001   7,241    5.510   305    2.120  452
Lany Pak Po                          00    1.162   1,228    ,30e    1,478      7.74%    1.73%  -29.1 %   1,569   1,537   1,480   1,320   1,137     08      s6o      135
626    1.943   3,476   4,063   4.317               4.12%           s,655   6,607   7,686   8,505    6.025   8407   6,s29   1.920
0ftuFee*a&Chorg.l                  23,118  36,402  3V8276  30,612   28,354    -7.90%    46.68%  -37t %  26,983   23,030  1.20    15,480   11,757   8.118   4.623    05
Mboesea.a                            1,447   1.740   3,750   8,129   a.818    71.40%     t16%  -le.: %  11,023  12,400  13,606   14X403   14,421  13.102  90,0     2805
t       qi   Stee                      "111)    425    8a0   2.063   3.163                      -24  %   3,637   3,764   3,00   3700   3409   2,640    1922          46
OTAL O      FRENUES                 48,38   89,604  7255  76,063 8     848    48.4%    02.00%  -27 '%  64,006   60,32   56,473  51,006  46,11   37.059   2,8.43   6.744
AT' 1661CONSfTNrPRICES              409368   5261  341178  29,256   20.779
a" itIn amotfm                          0       0        0       0       0               0.00%
c         sd ""Wm"                      0       0        0   5,734  11.728               6.8%  *26e- %  21,060   21.332  21,066  20,O06   10.066   14,788   9.757   2.4
cowGm ti el         m43               750       0       0        0       0               021%
TOTAL INDFC  IREVENUES                750       0        0   6,734   14.728              7.10%  -26  %  21.060   21,332  21,066  20,00   18,086  14,768   8,787   2.484
AT 18CONSTATFCES                      750       0       0   t22       6A28
TOTAL   CEUROFFUNDS                 50,136  6 4  72,75  81,88t   60e    7       4.10%   100.00%  -27 '%  05,074  81,657  77,636  72.057   84.27   62.747  3.400   0.208
AT 190 CONSTAT PRICES               50.136  582621  34,176  31,485   27,040
APUCATON OF FUNOS
SIOus 9etatOOg GmI1I)d3             14,612  19,368  18,161  31,002   2137       7.58%    30.14%  .29, '   25,947  25.104  23,66   21,6*4  19.570  14,52   90,148   2206
TlWaveTmpo                           4,154   4,687    4069  0,61    11,082    34.11%   10.20%  .14 .,%  14.361   180828  19,260  21,137   22,011  20,707   ts155    46S
Guwrtbependli                        7,ee8  15,884  117,014  17,644   11,267   -0.82%   19.57%  .341 lb  11,287  10140   S,601    7,538    039   4,366   ts74       578
Mebt is     Repeif                   0.342   0.72B   4,60   4,2a0   0.200       2.4%     7.0%  -34' t%  0.209   5.568   4,00S   4,154       327   2.418   1,418      318
o0e                                  3.12e   2,268  3A504   2,667    6,00-i   37 2%    4.94%  .14  lb  7,608   0.131  10.420   1t.471    1,048   11t,267   s.e08   2,511
TOTWAL RECU11RNT EXPENDOT           36.124  40.872  50s,18   65,607   56.676    e.20%    72.85%  -23  lb 6WAN08  68.780  67,114  e5,84   ei,e2  53.39   37.602  10,3
AT168CONSTANTPCES                   38,124  36,066  23,566  2M2M  t1.619
SUAPUW   FOF OAPITAL EXPEND.        14.012  2,022   22,587   16,131   22,0     1.83%   26.95%
ACTUAL CAPlALUXPEN0nVREN4          15,382  14,227  26,456  18,924   19.703    i1.46%   27.15%    f 1  10.468  14.66   10,425   6,203   2,385    (am2  (2.2102  (1,035
AT tgsa TONSJANT PRICES             15,362  10.842  13,368   7,260    6.500
Note 1               InckudeS venous lcete lees  nt, o
Nows 2                These evenutes wae mbling   antwnt tae_ cod centray al nd asft.rd to D As
NoW 3                St AIy Gantptad by CenGralG%emtvnn has been etke fronm .c.ono aind ,lmt
NoIb 4               This includes smell fesbtatn wtevs and somenew consuuclon
Nob 5                This Is e specfSc to  pvsbn for OSM hids
0                                        0
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRICES
C. '000
1093    1904    1606    1966    1997    1906    I9WO    2X0 00
TOTAL DIRECT REVENUES                                                                           11  1%  64,005  67,027  71.464  77,725  66,193  97.458  112201  131,500                          O Q    J
TOTALINDCRFEVENUES                                                                              N. v%  21.0es  23,702  28,665  29,998  33,748  37,967  42,713  48,052             
TOTAL tECURtEN EENOUtFRE                                                                        1: 1%  65.60    74,210  84,084  9,451t t5,401  137,090  t64.004  199,733
ADTIONALFUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENT1t                                                                     1  19.466  16,520  13,196   9,272   4,450  (1674)  p,640) (20,175)                           0      IJ
NETPRJWTIMpACT                                                                                            182      153  (1,691) (190,4) (31,772) (19.403)  23281) (40,73%                        0
TOAL W01 PF RJET DevELopmENT CAPASJtY                                                                  19,628  16,673   11,245    2,822) (27,322 1.0 077)  321,92t (0189t3)                     Fh 
Hole I               Selanclng figure - Revenues minus Recufent Expenditure                                                                                                                      -



TOWN:                TECHMN               OSTfICT ASSEMBLY         TECHIMAN                           PROJECTION BASED ON CONSTANT JANUARY 1993 CEO        Annex 5
CEMI 000                AppendI 1.11
OUWCESt O FUNDS                      t968    1969    1990    ts19    1992 GROWTH PERCENT CONSTA    1993    1094    199I    1996    1997    t996    low    2000
RATE   CONTRB GROWTH
DIeCT LOCAL REVENUES                                                         169-92  t988-92   RATE
Satete                              2,230   3,367   5,752   2,051    1,3t   -260.19S%    2.866%. -41 12%   1.219  967      780     594      426     2w0     146      30
Ppety Patls                         1,69   3,997   6,'71   3,348   6.120    1526%        4.34%  .26.40%   6.865   8.971   8,664   6.59    5,911   4,833   3169      605
Tawl Fe"sand Owges                 40,363  60,910  93,682  103,1170  93,917    1553%    72.97%  .2309% 107,205  111.132  11.,273 112,197  105,607  91,060  63,573  17.,069
Mwket Fe"                         35,145  50.867  74,534  29,049  20,400   .26 17%   39.05%   37.85%  19.380  16,570  13,817  11,116   8,459   5,841   3254        694
Loy Paetk Po                        1,486    1,669   3,010   2,977   7,221    62.31%    3 16%  .14.95%   9,387  10.983  12,503  13,797  14,388  13.575  10.351   3.021
626   1,943   3,476   4,063    4,317               2.724.          5,812   8,506   7,402   8246    6,589   6.115   6,168    1.89
O rw Fes" & Cege I1                2.947   6,591   12,040  67,066   61.960   111.07%   2804%  -23.t3%  72,828  77,013  79.431  79,030  74,391  63,529  43,761   11,548
MIeuwleu                                0       0      128      80     712      EFRR     0 17%  -34.58%    712     641     562     476      362     277     183       37
TiAdlnG i9                            326     29       72 m    257     596                      28.04%    656      640     627     564      514     411     265       66
TOTALORECTRrtEVENUE                44,615   66.564  106,435  100,511  102,700    14.42%    80.75%  -2343% 110,67e  120,380  122.127 120,411  113,042  96,662  07.336   16,06
AT1986CONSTANTPRICES               44,615  51,286  50,937  42,183   34,337
INDRECT RENUES
Sra Ilnftuo tdat"                       0       0       0        0       0               0.00%
Oeded Rd_venu&2                         0       0       0        0   25,458              4.74%  *26 40%  26,640  28,906  28,636   27,281  24.565  20.1i2   13,264   3,350
OthfGMts(Ex fityG"-nt3                80       0        0       0   77,t78             t451%
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES               800       0       0        6  102,63S             19.25%  -2640%  28.640  26,096   28.633  27,261   24,585  20,102  13,264   3.350
ATI960CONSTANT PRICES                 800       0       0        2   34,316
TOTAL SOURCEOFS FUNDS               45,415   63,564 t06,435  109,517  205,336    44.14%   10000%  .23 96% 145.317  149,379  150,782  147,692  137,627  116,964  60,S62  21,358
AT 1966CONSTANT PRICeS             45,415  51,266  50,937  42,185  63,653
APPLICATION Of FUNDS
Routine opas 
StICoetosNOtcfGOGGrantAw3           10,204   13,116  18,357  20,687  26,126    25.82%    1624%  21 50%  31.351   33,659  35,665  30,243  34,639  30.385  21,365   5,761
Travel&Tnpwet                       9,186   15,796  15,911  25,646  28,510    21,75i%   17.48%  -21 50%  34.212  36,940  36.920  39,550  38.018  33.157  23.336   6,287
Genel ExpeItr                       4,585   4,977   9,260  12,7I    12,337    35.34%     8.06%  *21.50%  14,804  15,988  1f.841   17,114  10,451   14,348  10,096   2,720
Malntenal& FepaIr                   3,654   5.615   4,193   5,278   10,057    2144%    5201s. 2150%  12.069  13.034  13.730  13,952  13.412  11,697   6,232   2,218
Otttw                               7,283  14,310  21,455  24,138   30,127    28.15%   17.86%  -21 50%  36.153  39,045  41,127  41,794  40.174   35,038  24,860   8,643
TOrTAL RECURFENT EXPENDITURE       34,912  53,622  66,164  88,72E  107,157    25.60%   64.92%  .21.50% 128,589  138,876  t48,283  148.853  142,603  124,625  87,712  23.629
AT1966CONSTANT PRCES               34,912  40.259  32,499  34,177   35,628
SURPLUS FOR CAPITAL EXPEND.         10,503   14,741  30,251  20,789  98,176    80.15%    3368%
ACTUALCAP1TAL.EXPENDTTURE\4         9,574   14.284  35,235  24,944  107.136    9575%    350 t"^    EnR   16,728  10,503    4.400    (961)  (5,268)  (7,661)  (7.111)  (2,273)
AT 1968 CONSTANT PFICES             9,574   10,685  16,552   9,008   35,82C
Not. i               Includes vents licence fee, rents, etc.
Note 2               These revenues are gambling & entestinnment taxes collected cerntrnlly and assq,r-I to [2 A-.
Note 3               Sat" Grtnt paid by Central Govemment has been excluded ftom a,.ome tnd ext -wtlw,
Note 4               This includes smail rchabllDation wooks aWnd some new construction
Note 5               This Is the specific loan provision for O&M tunds
0                                        0
SUMMARY FORECAST IN CURRENT PRICES
C '000
1993    1994    1995    1998    1997    1998    1999    2000                                 :
TOTAL DIRECT FEVENUES                                                                           t704%  '16676  133.756  154,591  t79,966  210,939  248.689 294.774 351,116                      (      p
TOTAL INDIRECT REVENUES                                                                         1250%  28.640  32.220  34.248  40,779  45,876  51,611   58,062  65.320
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE                                                                     20 00% 128.509  154,307  185,1fi  222,201  286.t42  319,970 383,964 460.757                     i  I.t
ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENT\1                                                               ERR   16.728   11,670   5,671   (1,437)  (9,626) (19,671) (31,128) (44,321) 1
NET PROJECT IMPACT                                                                                        689     775    (6   (25.211) (31.098) (18,486) (27.00  (54,8                          .h e_
TOTAL WITHf PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITY                                                       rRRn  17.416  12.444   4,814  (28.648) (40.924) (38,157) (58,130) (9918t I
Note 1               Bltancing figure - Rewnue,s minus Recurrent Expenditure



WCAL GOVERNMENT DEVEL)PMOENT PROJECT
Outie of Revre huprovnt Atdm  Pan   W    for Dkbitt A1mblI
REVENUE IMOVEMENT ACTION PLAN                                           DISTRICT ASSEMBLY
NO.   REVENUWACTIN                                                 RESPOMINS          ACTION BY          MONITORIG          COMMENTSIOBJECI
U Nuumber of moonth elapsed tm  f(mm pumect                 AGENCY(IES)             %I           INDICATORS         _____________
2.0    REVENUE POLJCY
1.1    FemiIst cd deind toeverO poWNci for mnor m e                                         3         DA   proved poicy    S_eme  of Rvn ftliciee- Amu  hvduct
1.2    Prvide btddn to Assm       l ey Mub   an revni palsy                                 3
-em
13     Eabj mad puba  lar code of pnidve masr  to be                                        6         Now code              Apprad of scale of penll  At revenu dealr.
tand qbt dafbtdl                                                                               Ai _                  A_ Review
2.0     BASICRATE
The fMovIng I. dIpnd'*a daclouato retain as Bakh Rat
2.1     Updat Nmll Rob bllfw ubo        sis boulbd be mbaftod HW*e poperty ua   a
22      Roview .,. am Pr Capita bob for th ua ara                                                                           pro"edy   brdad
23      Reie   cdoleca prede and wnta    for
2.4    Rev  iepsyu.ntprocdures NW mooft  are" for
2.5     Desin and brylanren imprvovd collectIoa and II IyMP t                                                                                                                       -4
system                                                                                                                                                                      %0
2.6     DesIg and inyhnat Vmprovd repavnd faa. and
_ _ procedureto  be followed by collectorsn_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3.0     MROPS=l TAX                                                                                                         Ibur year timwebss per Paul Saoneron
3.1     Peaeupdated vdaluao roll for the urbnara                                     48               NOW Valuatoon List
3.2    Review billin procedure to enuare tha rae bill are laed as                    6                 Improved Bam"n       Now neuams bluin procedures
2S   to al labl ppty ower                                                                     System
3.3    Review collection procedure to eant. that evenue Is colleced                  6                Imprved Cash dow      Revised colltond prowedae
In the moot Omoseffective way.                                                                - overel Mbomniua     Reducedcostaof ollectio
3A4     Revi ex outi  poInt of paymen and Moetif any ara wham                        6                tsare 10%             Expanded poin of payent (OPO) Systm where
inread pain  of paymen will bmpoe colec                                         _ 4Nccesy
3.5     Review reepting anid hapamerpromeduresto eni  tha                            6                                       pmprovd caub Bow,  ieducd tomes, reducedarar
colehtlanamprompdy poidin to doDA ad  porw              for)
3.2    Reviw the eo ectiveeass of exstn   ecton upml^n                               6                )                     Imrvd revemies
tbu  so i11 lil SydEmWA
3.Id enaptof a be < 6tnd    f   R;- Impoementws.
3.7    Reviw sstm of ara  con d  fow        awup procedu.                            4                                      Imved coletom peafoa        e and reduced nem
3.      D1 esgnpod repaing  s tm  oa  proedur  at allb leaes                         6                                      Betot rve    nExiep a ot aDA Incre
of DA.                                                                                                              m be awareness
0 )
3e6 R ~~~~~~~~ 4fbfi_ ef ex_ e~~~~~~~~~~~~olle_ 6  _
i    -  i P - _                                      )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
3J  1  q  < # coaul unl fip pwo_ 4 ) edtecX pabe_ zd d u~0,
3*8 D_ b _a uS tee_ a I tewds 6) s Xxxo _ t iattued D
<.                   l    I    I                                               In_                                              mO61t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REVENt_  DAPOVWEKF ACON PLANd                                     DWf T rR ASSEMLY              ,
NO.   REVE WIAcON                                            RESPONSIE        ACnoN ay         MON111IN          CO             BYENTSA YW5Crv
UN__b___      _____se      __d_m_fmp___t_om     _      AGENCYCIES)          U            INDICATORS
4.0    LORY PARK REVENUE
4.1    Rim  duetg of WtM pau to es  dkM bapals exit ad                        6                                  Mol bratiet Sony pak
to"a pohe asoMrnI andicbNamen-.
41    ERiA* La  Pwk Carwty                                                    6                                  Cbler vlum in=&au Of caep
43     Nu"  a_   q!ac_an  d    m o am   r wony                                Ea Ech Fi a    Udk cOM bt pa*      Stmmnt of "nual O&M Coma
peAk OM Ieegap ei a cut pw padih pae                                  Yer
4.4   Blit"    m_as aa  do oa k onuap nd epoi ccs                             ongoing        Dah pgw da          Deald ude analysi_
4.5      EOblA 0kM cam per mor                                                Each Rn.. Year   Unit dca          Rd of 43 4vdbd by 4.4
4.6   lawIw    alshp  sates                                                   Each FpiS  Year   I,d  Face        An-I duag adjuma
4.7    Ryw Lam  Phu   _aI. p I   a  i*d WI  MY                               9                                  btoed 
PONT* 6vm"mwb                                                   )~~~~~~~~REVENUE
4.7    Rayi_ colstt and iqan-tpin-OasIsso   m dta                             9              INCRELASE           kNed
naiximm  aveaca ane caletd ad prpeip paidL                                            ) %
4.8    DeAge san kpemm Impevd bqpl_     pASm f6, Wt   pwk                     12             )NOMINAL RATE        es tWVer  poli
4.9    Edslid pInoPedma for a    revie and aj_ atnudoOf                       12                                 A d  age adjuirn                                   a
_ _    -    ~~fee.                                      I    _   _   _ _O
-_   P - "8  -  .             _                    .                                  O0
"t A
o1us
O



-81-                                  Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 6
l I ini WllonAt



-82-                     Appndex 5
1 |   III     1  
,.  lM   ~ ~~i} 4           [1            t
+                        .j
=-           1             1             1.qt -'|W



REVENUE E4PROVEMENT ACFION  PLAN                                       DITRICT ASSEMBLY
NO. REVENWACrUON                                                   RESPONSDPE   ACIION BY    MONDrORIG    COMMENTSIOWEIVP
UI Nuntbwrofat a   ehpapsd kw fei    ptt         _         AGENCY(IES)            U I           DICATORS
8.0  NEW REVEN
8.1    Review all ovi      1chiaeo peovidedorcould beaprovided by                   27                                     Pat"ial new r     e  deofid
tde DA *ad  ii..  am r hielch spaa dage cowd be
Od.
8.2    Wdant* tbe possble levls of chares whic could be levied,                     27                                     Potentia nw reveusee idseled
nd dh amial ost of sdic pwlsluto th DA.
83     Whe now svsma wM prodc  toe benfit to td  DA,                                27               Detadid prposa        Pneposa fo  cipaut  rvew  bane
pumpa, pmpoal fore Lod           of stae    of cges for                                      c         co  SW
ubmieis to DA&LK  fo aprvl, toeh   ih the                                                    reenues
$A     Wher proper apprva is ien csary on publcaarns                                28                                     Publ acceptance, of new charge
;A Wlt!Pi a cWI0
cInfoeap
8.5    hnmduce  oa  charg(s) and  p e             syms ad                           30               New   me                poved rev_
8.6    Revew  a rguar ba e   revenu pefmac until the                                Ogoing *er                                      eof Aew renue v a
m revene i fol       abilW.                                                 monh 30
9.0    UNECONOMIC REVNUES
9.1    Mwerlb al revu  comldereto be uneconomic. 
9.2    Estih uam    co"tef collecdee Snd cocm    wth bani                                                                  EimiatIon of non-we efective revns.
revenue for asc reowa.
9.3    Prepae a scedule of al k?nld  ueownomI             a                         12               EliInation of sonx'
obtain    val or ea    cdto effos.                                                           renues             _
10.0   PU C AWAREESS CARPAJNS_
10.1   Prepue a campa  to nlafixm all becades of the exisig                         I5                                    bIpwved willingness to pay kai    to icmasd
pulDe sves prvde by the DA.                                                                                        reveues.
10.2   Prepar publi awaren  campaigns to Inafom poentia eveu                        IS                    od genea
pay.. of DA  vewae dcari  ad collcaon ad dawu                                                revenue paformn
103    For tde iodneton ofow public services prepm ptblIcity in                     Ongoing wben
advme of svie prouluon  cArbges.                                            LWD? Ifs.
availbl
0 en



Annex 5
-84-                                  -pedi 
AenxPage 6 of 6
I    11



-85-                               Annex
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Refetence for Preparation of Revenue Improvement Adion
Plans for District AssenbUes
Background
1.    The GOO is proposing tD seek a crdit from the World Bank for the Local Government
Development Project which is itded to assist and strengthen the District Assemblies. Ihe project
would include a maximum of 11 towns and would be prepared following standard project preparation
in ta cmponent woud be sdected, prepared and costed in detail. Ihe Projed is to provide
assistance to District Assemblies:
(a)   to Improve esnta Ifastucre and services, and
(b)   to strengthen District Assemblies' planning, financial and managerial capabilities.
'the towns in the project are:
Bolgatanga          Bawku
Cape Coast          Elmina
Ho                  Keta
Koforda             Sunyan
Swedru              Techiman
Wa
2.    As a part of the strn hening of District Assemblies' planning, financial and management
capability it is proposed to improve local financial resource mobilization by the development and
Implementation of Revue Improvement Action Plans (RIAP) for each of the Distict Assemblies.
Oudine RIAP have been prepared by the original project preparation consultancy; they now require
completion so tat each District Assembly may review and approve the detailed RIAP prior to
fiization of the project cedit.
3.    Mhe Misty of Local Government and Rural Development  eirs approximaty 10 staff
months of cosultancy services to carry out the scope of work and tasks below, in the period
September 1993 to December 1993.
Scope of Work and Ta1k
(a)    Review oudine RLAP from original consultancy with each District Assembly and
ensre tat ondy major revenues are included.
(b)   lidetfy the detailed acons and steps required to improve each of the revenues, and
aes the impact, in financial terms, of the proposed actions.



-86-                              An=  5
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Identify, with each Distrct Assembly, the other agencies involved In the actions
required, and meet jointly with all agencies to establish a realistic timetable for
achievement of the RIAP actions and benefits.
(d)   Identify critical monitoring indicators of progress towards achievement of RIAP
benefits and prepare a detailed RLAP for each District Assembly.
Reports
4.    A detailed RlAP for each of the 11 District Assemblies (in 6 copies) together with an overall
final report of findings in relation to District Assembly revenues should be submitted to Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development by 31st December 1993.



-87-                              A l $
Appendix 4
Page 'of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Strengthening lhe Revenue Capadty of District Assemblies
Policy Review
Purpose
1.    The purpose of this component is to assist the Government of Ghana to review the current
allocation of revenue sources among Central Govermnent and District Assemblies with the view tO
revising currently established revenue systems consistent with established decentralization objectives.
Background
2.    District Assemblies are almost completely dependent on Central Government for both
investment and recurrent finance. As presented in the Bank's recent study, "GHANA -
Strengthening Local Initiatve and Building Local Capacity-, the most fundamental problem affecting
the current attempt to implement Ghnas decentralization policy is the inconsistency between the
devolutionary objectives of PNDC Law No. 207 and the structure of authority in place for the
performance of planning, financing, and personnel management functions. As stressed throughout the
referenced study, the system in place is largely one in which District Assemblies act as agents of
Central Government rather than exercising significant discretionary authority as envisaged in PNDC
Law No. 207 and the new Constitution. Significant improvement of public sector pertormae in
Ghana is not possible until that inconsistency is resolved. Resolving that asymmetry between systems
in place and the Government's stated policy objective must be the cornerstne of its strategy for
implementing decentralization.
3.    The GOG is fully aware that the current situation contradicts, to some extent, its own
decentralization policy objectives and is drafting changes in its financial management systems which
are expected to be more consistent with those objectives. This sub-component of the LGDP will
assist Government to rationalize its longer-tm policy with respect to the allocation of revenue
sources among central government and District Assemblies.
Desciption
4.    Comprehensive assistance for the Implementation of Government's evolving decentralization
program is beyond the scope of the LGDP. Nevertheless, because of its imporace for susiing the
specific benefits of the LGDP, the project will assist Government to rationalize its system for
generating and sharing public sector revenue among central goverlment and District Assemblies.
Although emphasis will be placed on priority actions most directly required for sustaning the benefits
of LGLP, this activity wfll also contribute significantly to improved public sector performance at
local levels in most sectors supported by the Bank in Ghana.
5.    Technical assistance wiUl be provided to support GOG in: (a) conducting a comprehensive
review of the current allocation of revenue sources among centa goverment and local govnents
and (b) preparing draft proposals for legal and regulatory reforms to rationalize revenue collection



-58- ~~            ~       A~
Appeadiz 4
Page  of 3
among levels of government (consistent with GOO' s ategic decentraization objectives and the
relative resource requirements at both central and district Ieels). Figue I provides an outline of
actvities, responsibe parties, and the time reired to complet planned taskL In summay, ths
Fmance Committee of Parlment and a speciized Working Group would be assisted to: (a) design,
organize, and conduct Action-Planning Workshops to idetif scific issues; (b) idetfy, desrb,
and assess alteraive formulae and systm for the distibution of revene ources among central
government and District Assemblies; and (c) adopt and eablish apropriate policies and systems.
Technical assistce, training, operational support, and computer hardware and relevat software
would be financed in support of that process. Dets of the TA inputs ars presented in Annex IS,
Section S. Twelve person-mondhs of national consultants will be provided, plus fiacing for
workshops, a computer, and logistical support. Total base cost is US$.056 million.



IMPROVING ALWCATION OF REVENUF SOURCES: INITIAL ACON PROGRAM
Dberatlonal Obleeive                               aftvities                           Resmouibtle Partvtieal         EstiMeted Time twuirea
Rationalite system for           -  Establish specific criteria for decisions           -  Parliamnt                   --  months 1-1S
onesrating and sharing pubtlc       concerning  wtch specific sources of existing and
sector revene  aong gov      et    potentfat revenue (e.g. property rates, ineame
levels.                             taxes, sales taxes, buslness turnover taxes
specfffc service fees etc.) should be reserved
exclusively to Central Goverruent revwed to
Distriet Assembltes  and shared amng Central
Government and District Asseablies; Cb) conduct
review of current allocation of revenue sources
among Central Government; and (c) prepare draft
appropriate legislation and aiminnstrative
regulations.
o  Assign responsibility to Finarnce Commdttee of      o  ParLfament                  o  Month 1
Parliament.
a  Fetabllsh a Working Group of GOG staff and          o  Par(iamentary Committee     o  Month 2
other interested parties responsible to the
Comifttee of Parliament.
o Design, organize, and conduct Action-Planning        o  Ormanized by Working        o  Nonths 4-5                      1
Workshops to identify outUM of issues.                 Group (w/assistance of                                         00
Participants in workshop mitt include menbers          professIonrlly skfiled                                         %O
of Parliamentary Committee and Working Group,          workshop facilftators),
as mell as representatives of Nof, OICS, key           6nognre by Partlament
line ministries, relevant statutory                    Committee
authorities (9,&, OFR, GUSC, IDA), District
Assemblies, and 4Os.
o  Identify, desribe, and assess alternative           o  Working Group (assisted     a Montts 6-10
foroulae and systems for the distribution of           by short-term Chanalan
revenue sources among Central Government and           consultantts))
Oistrict Assemblies.
o  Provide orientation training vys alternative        o  Short-term Ghanaian         o  Months 11-12
formulae and systems for the dis-trbution of           consultants
revenue sources to relevant embers of
Parltament
o  Suttmt recommended formula and system for           o  Working Group (assisted     o Nonths 13-15
assigning sources of revenue amon  Central             by short-term Ghnh ian
Government and District Assemblies (including          consultantCs)) and
identification of lnronsistencies In current           Parliamentary Committee
legislation and administrative regulations).
--  Adopt appropriate policy.                          --  Pariment                   -- Months 1S-22
--  Draft approprfately amended legislation and        --  hL6RD (in consultation         Months ZI-32
administrative regulations                             with MoF)                                                         :3_
.  .-Q
PB VI
O X0



-90-                              Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
REPUBUC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Propewty Revaluation
Summar
Qbiive: To provide a comprehensive register of rateable properties in each of the 11 LGDP
project towns to enhance existing revenue from this source as part of a package of measures designed
to Improve revenue mobilization and financial management In each of the DAs.
Descrptio: Technical assistance, vehicles, other equipment, training and operational support for
property revatuation In each of the project towns to be undertaken by the LVB. This component will
be closely associated with the related strengthening of budgeting, reverue collection and accounting
systems in aU the DAs.
oation: Cape Coast, Elmina, Sunyani, Koforidua, Ho, Bolgatanga, Bawku, Techinn, Swedru,
Wa, and Keta/Anloga.
Estimated cs  Total Base Cost US$ 678,000 (c 406.8 million).
Financing    .... IDA (%) ....         ..... GOG (%).
Loca  Foreign             Locl Foreign
90    100                 10     -
ImhW=w=n= hIk klx  Land Valuation Board in coilaboration with the District Assemblies in
the project towns.
Commncemnt:July 1994
Detailed Descipton
1.    The Jroject will provide for a revaluation of all rateable properties to be carried out in each
of the project towns. The LVB has experience of successfblly completing revaluation exercises in
Accra and Tema under ADRP and is currently involved in similar work under Urban II in Kumasi,
Tamale and Sekondi-Takoradi. LVB's work under Urban HI is expected to be completed by March
1994 which would enable It to commence work under LGDP in mid 1994. LVB has developed the
necessar expertise for effective implementation and supervision of revaluation work and the project
will further assist it to build its capacity to maintain the new Lists and to carry out similar work in
other Districts in due course. It is important that LVB retain sufficient capacity to maintain the Lists
produced under previous projects if the benefit of that work is to be fully realized.
2. Estimates of the number of properties to be surveyed and assessed In each of the project
towns, based on the existing numbers of properties contained in LVB records, are as follows:



-91-
Page 2 of 4
TMw          No. of EM,erfies          TMw            No. of ErQerties
Cape Coast/  16,650                     Sunyanl       14,250
Elmina
Koforidua     8,700                     Ho             ,UO
Bolgatanga    5,200                     Bawku         4,400
Techiman      4,300                     Swedru        3,350
Wa            3,150                     KetalAnloga   6,600
3.    It is estimated that a total of 70,700 parcels are to be assessed under the project, although this
estimate may be subject to considerable variation in due course when the initial survey work has been
undertaken. LVB will carry out the work through dedicated teams operating in each of the project
towns under the control and direction of a Project Coordinator who will be assisted in implementation
and supervision through a streamlined management structure.
4.    LVB has sufficient existing staff resources to undertake the work but will need support under
the project in the form of vehicles, survey and other fieldwork equipment, office equipment and
materials, and additional computer facilities to supplement and update its existing computers which
are limited in terms of their application and potential. LVB will need technical assistance in the
selection of appropriate computer facilities and in the design of necessary programs. New software
and hardware for LVB should be designed to be compatible with computer facilities to be supplied to
DAs under the project. This will enable data transfer (via disk or tape) between LVB and the DAs
relating to the production and maintenance of the Valuation Lists to be implemented in a more
efficient and cost-effective manner. New computer facilities to be made available to MILGRD/LGSU
should also be able to accept data from LVB/DAs to assist in effec:ive monitoring operations.
5.    The design of computer software for the DAs should contain the fcility for automated
production of tate demands to improve billing and collection operations. Appropriate hardware will
also be required for this purpose. Software to be provided for use by the LVB should be designed to
enable survey information to be held in a computer database and should incorporate a program that
would facilitate the application of replacement cost scales to survey data so that the computer can
produce draft rateable values automatically. The program should also facilitate the application of an
appropriate index to update assessments in the years between revaluation exercises.
6.    The project will provide for training of LVB staff, mainly locally, to enhmce their
management capacity and to assist in the effective maintenance of the new Valuation Lists produced.
Training will also be needed to fully utilize the new computer facilities provided under the project.
As a separate but related element, DA staff wil also receive chWnical assistance and training to
enable them to maximize the reenue potential that will be available from the updated, comprehensive
tax base resulting from the revaluation of rateable properties. The project will provide operational
suWort to LVB to assist them in meeting the additional expenditure and other needs dtat wil arise as
a result of the revaluation exercises.



-92-
Anna
Page 3 of 4
7.    The timetable for complation of the revaluation exercise by LVB will be as follows:
Action                           Date
(1) Property numbering exercise         July - Dec 1994
(in conjunction with DAs)
(2) Preparation of valuation scales     July - Dec 1994
(3) Preparation of plans (based on     Jan - June 1995
new maps to) be provided under
the project If available)
(4) Survey of rateable properties      July 1995 - June 1995
in each of the project towns
(5) Valuation of rateable properties    Dec 1995 - Dec 1996
in each of the project towns
(6) Computer production of new          Jan - June 1997
Valuation Lists
(7) Deposit of new Valuation Lists     July 1997
with the DAs
(8) Maintena_  of the new Lists         July 1997 onwards
8.    It should be noted that LVB will continue to devote other resources to maintenance of the
Valuation Lists produced under ADRP and Urban II whilst the above activities are being undertaken
9.    Under this tmetable the DAs will therefore have the revised updated and comprehensive
regiser of rateable properties available for them to initiate collection of revenue from this source
during the cowurse of the 1997 financial year. Ihe DAs will be provided with esmates of the total
rateable value that will result from the revaluation as the exercise progresses In order that they may
calculate the revenue potential of the revised tax base and may, in conjunction with MLGRD,
determine the new rates that will be applied. An indication of the possible impact of the revaluation
on the internal revenue generatng capacity of the DAs is incorporated in Tables 1.1 to 1.11 in
Ane 5.
10. Implementation of this component will be the responsibility of LVB, although it will be
necessary for the LVB to laise closely wi hthe DAs in wa. of the project towns to agree on the
modalities for the property identification scheme to be adopted. The new maps to be produced by the
Survey Department under the project are to be made available to the LVB and the DAs to assist in
this process and will need to be supplied as soon as possible (and in any event not later than Jamnary
1995) if they are to make a positive impact. LVB will be required to keep the DAs and
MLGRD/LGSU infonned of progrs in general and to discuss with them any problems that may
arise. TSC will be responsible for procuement and disbursement support to LVB and will act as the
overall project coordinators. In that connection LVB will provide quarterly progress reports on the
property revaluation component to TSC for incorporation in the quarterly project progress reports.



-93-                              Amex
Page 4 of 4
11.   Te project file contains a background note relatg to the legislation govening the operaton
of the ratig system In Ghan and a separe background note rating to the stucture, s8tg and
orgaizaton of the LVB.
Costs and FInadng
(USS '000)
hm                   ~~~~~~Lnad    Foreign      TAW
a. Vehicles                                  348           348
-11 double cab pickups
-66 motoycles
b. Computes (2 PC packages)                   10            10
C. Materis                      152                        152
d. Technical Assistance
(12 p/m OUS$3,SOO)             42                        42
e. Tranig                        16                        16
f. Operational Support          110                        110
Totals                        320          358           678
Prcentage of cost              47%          53%           100%



-94-                               Aflf.
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMNT DEVELOPMET PROJECr
Land Use Pbnning and Developinent Guidance
Objecives
1.    This component of the LGDP will support a collaborative effort between the Town and
Countrv Planning Department and the 11 District Assemblies to strengthen the system for managing
land use planning and development guidance in the project towns.
Backgound
2.    The primary goal of land use plaming and development guidance in the context of the 11
LODP towns is to guide public and private investment in infrasructure and building construction in
such a way as to produce (1) efficient urban growth and (ii) reduced environmental problems.
Sustainable land use planning measures are needed to identify and preserve minimum land
reservations for lnfrastructure and public services, which compete poorly for space in the free land
market. In addition, new approaches are needed to obtain the voluntary cooperation of land owners
in achieving land uee planning objectives.
3.    In the present cimstances, traditional development controls (i.e. zoning, subdivision
regulations, and building pennits) function poorly due to several factors. It is very difficult for
reserved infrastrOcture corridors and or service areas to be acquired outright by the government due
to lack of financial resources and weaknesses in land expropriation procedures. In the absence of
government's acquiring property rights over the reservadons, these are highly exposed to
enroachment by land speulators and private developers long before public agencieb are able to
mobilize resources to develop them for their intended public purposes. The subdivision of land
parcels into lots for subsequent sale Is a common practice, but the ability to control or guide it is
severtly restricted by weak institutional capacity. The current building permit process is excessively
complex and, in practice, its implementation is ineffective. Other problems of the planning and
development control system include: lack of up-to-date maps, inadequate logistical resources for
planning staff and a lack of understanding of the purposes of land use planning on the part of most
government officials and staff.
Desciption
4.    LGDP wil assist wfith a limited program of support focusing on development pian  (as
disict from contol). Ihis will comist of the following elements:
a)    Production of maps of the towns.
b)    Rapid preparation of simple town-wide land use plans indicating (1) primaryr areas of
fuure uran growth over the coming 10-15 years, (ii) areas where development
should be avoided for environmental reasons, (iii) designation of major new roa'i
coridors in peripheral grcwth areas, and (iv) designation of selected public servte
areas.



-95-
MM 7
Page 2 of 3
c)    ampemeng ground demarcaon of major road dght-of-way as indicated on the
lani e plans, folowing condsultation and cooperaion of the inlved land owners.
This will be done to eu  the vilitq and prtecton from encroachment of the
cotridors.
d)    Preparation of simple guidelines for subdivisions. ocal TCP staf will be trained in
using these guidelines to provide assistance to land owners who seek advice. SiWple
manuas on land subdivision, suitable for non-speciists, will be prepared and made
available to intest  land owners.
e)    Strengthening record-keeping systems related to development control.
f)    Education and awareness campaigns to foster coopera    of prvate land owners and
public agencies.
S.    To support the realization of the above tasks, LGD? will finance technical assistance and
training. It will also finace vehicles and other equipment for the six Regional offices of the Town
ad Country Planning Department.
6.    The World Bank is financing a similar progrm of support to the Town and County Planning
Deparment for land use planning and control in the cities of Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi,
Tmle, and Tema under the Urban Transport Project (UTP) (Report No. 11674-O. The activities
oulined in this Annex for the LGDP will be closely coordinated with those to be underta    uder
the UTP.
7.    Technical assistance, in the form of local consultauts, wil focs on three areas. Ten peron-
months of TA will be prvided to assist the sib Regional offices of TCP in prepaing the lad use
plans. This support wil be for the proper conceptualization of the plas, provision of adequate
orienttion to the staff in their preparati, and supervision of the preparation process, especially with
regard to ensurig the particpation of all affected land owners and governme bodies. Second, six
person-monts of TA will be provided to assess the land development rcord-keeping systems of the
six Regial offices, to desig an mpwoved system (adapting the principles used in the UTP-
sponsored exercise), and to assist in implementing this system. Third, six person-months of TA will
be devoted to assistig TCP in developing simple land subdivision guidelines, taning staff in their
use, and producing simple manuals for public distribuon.
8.    Ihee categories of training and public education will be used to stngthen and sustain the
land use planning and guidance system. The first is in-service tining of TCP and DA staff in
managltg the new record-keeping systems and assistg land owners with subdivisions. The second
would cvnprise Inter-agency semias and workshops geared toward fostering undstanding and
coopeatba among the units of the DA (icuding t'he deentralized agencies). The third will consist
of seminas and workshops aimed at educating the public and securing the coopeation of land owners
and privat developers.



-96-
AnnI7
Page 3 ot 3
Cost and Jlnandng
US$ 'X00
mLocal       Foreign
Technical assistance
22 p/m @ US$3,500              77                        77
Training and related materials
(minuals, brochures, etc.)     70                        70
Vehicles
6 double cab pickups OUS$15,000             90           90
6 motorcycles @US$2,500                     15           15
Computers (6 pkgs @US$4,000)                 24           24
Other equipment and supplies
for plan preparation           15           15           30
Surveying and demarcation       30                        30
TOTAL                            192          144          336



-97-                                 M      
Page lo 6r
REPUBIUC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
mapping Component
Objectves
1.    An important objecdve of LGDP Is to Improve the availability of information for urban
plannig, infrstructure programming, and revenue mobilization by District Authorities (DAs). Ihe
Government and the World Bank have agreed that up to date base maps are an Important component
of this information base. Such maps are essential to enable land use planners, engineers, land valuers,
and providers of utility services to carry out their work properly. IDA will support the Survey
Department in the production of new base maps for the eleven towns in the LGDP.
Badkground
2.    For the last 20 years almost no  re scale mapping has been produced in Ghana. The urban
mapping produced in the 1950s, 60s and early 70s has not been updated nor extended to cover areas
of recent urbanization. In consequence the original investment in urban mapping is now an asset of
very limited value and must be replaced by new mapping. Surprisingly large quantities of some
sheets (several hundred copies every few months) are still being issued by the Survey Department,
when they are able to purchase regular supplies of printing paper to supply the demand.
3.    Lack of large scale mapping is causing massive duplication of effort Ihe Land Valuation
Board has had to produce its own sketch maps of Accra for the Urban II valuation component. Ghana
Watr and Sewerage Corporation has recely commissioned French conutants to produce an
inventy of water consumers in Greater Accra to improve revenue collection, that includes producing
simple maps of all connections to consumers. Town & Country Planning has extended and updated
old maps from aeria photography and field inspection, but recognizes that their information on the
current stas of urban development is outdated and inadequate. The District Authority in Keta is
using hand traced copies of very old Survey Department maps. Surveys for engineering design and
maintece for roads, storm draiage, and wat and electricity distibution networks all have to be
commissioned individually because of the lack of base maps. If the Survey Department were able to
produce up-to-date maps covering the full extent of current urban development and surrounding land
subject to development, tis duplication of effort would be avoided, and all users would have
compatible and reliable maps. Government policies are formulated and adninistered on inaccurate
and incomplete information which must reduce thei relevance and effectiveness. Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation loses a very substantW  proportion of its potential revenue because of the lack
of records of consumers which would be easy to rectify if up-to-date large scale urban mapping were
available. GWSC is aware that mapping would help to increase their revenue and have intimated their
willingness to contribute to the cost.
4.    The nitial cost of mapping would be recovered by cost avoidance in duplicated effort and
greater efficiency by users over a reasonable period.



-98-
Page 2 of 6
Description
S.    The requirements are to fly aerial photography, establish ground control, produce digital
mapping and distribute maps and other survey information to the end users. The work is to be
executed by the Ghana Survey Department supported by an internati3nal Consultant. The work may
be divided int the following tasks.
Prenmrking on the ground
6.    The Survey Deparment shall premark existing survey monuments in each town by painting
them prior to photography. ITis reduces the amount of survey work to be done after photograhy.
Aerial photography
7.    The Consultant shall plan and fly aerial photography of the eleven towns, process the films
and produce prints, diapositives, index plots, and flight reports.
Grond control
8.    The Survey Department (or licensed surveyors) shall establish the necessary ground control
for mapping by premarking existing control points prior to photography and photo-point
identification after photography as appropriate. The pattern of plan and height control points
necessary for aerial triangulation and to pfovidW sufficient redundancy to isolate errors shall be agreed
between the Survey Department and the Consultant.
Aerial tr   aon
9.    The Consultant shall observe and adjust the aerial triangulation of each town as a single block
using a recognized and proven package for block or bundl3 adjustment. The Consultant shall notify
the Survey Department of any errors detected in the ground control results and the Survey
Departuent shall check and confirm the correct coordinates and photo-identifications.
Digital mapping at 12500 scale
10.   The Consultant shall produce samples and preliminary plots of the digital mapping at 1:2500
scale of the towns listed in the Bill of Quantities. (One town may be withdrawn to be mapped by the
Survey Department).
Field compledon
11.   The Survey Department, or local licensed surveyors, shall carry out field completion on the
ground to collect names and other information not visible on the aerial photographs.
EdtiUn and delivery of final maps and digital data
12.   The Consultant shall edit all the required corrections and additions and supply the digital data
and final map sheettarecies.



-99-                               Annei
Page 3 of 6
Dtbution of hardcopy amps and digital data
13.   'he Survey Departnent hall be responsible for the distribution of hardcopy maps and digital
data to the end users. This shall include publicizing the products available to both national and local
government agencies and the public. A realistic price shall be charged to all users to cover the real
cost of retrieval and reproduction with some contribution to the cost of the mapping program.
Mainenane of mapping
14.   The Survey Department shall make arrangements to maintain the currency of the maps by
undertaking periodic revision surveys and issuing revised editions of the maps. A resident
professional surveyor should be posted to each of the eleven towns to provide advice and undertake
map revision, settng out of development layouts, land title surveys etc.
Techimcal Assistance
15.   The Consultant will supply the following technical assistance:
a)    A project manager/surveyor for four months, intermittendy, to assist the Survey
Departnent in the following tasks:
-     Planning and management of all aspects of the project;
-     Preparing mondtly reports on progress against program and any technical,
organizational or contractual difficulties arising and recommendations for
improvement;
-     Defining the requirements for photocontrol and assisting the Survey
Department to check the quality of the results;
-     Assisting the Survey department with field completion and ensuring that the
corrections and additions are clearly understood by the Consultant;
-     Discussing and resolving final corrections and delivery of final maps.
b)    An experienced reprographics specialist familiar with large scale map reproduction for
two weeks to identify the requirements for fast and economical reproduction of large
scale maps for Urban m, to recommend suitable equipment and consumables, and to
prepare specifications for procurement.
c)    An experienced photogrammetric supervisor/operator for four months to work in the
Photogrammetric Section of the Survey Department to train s"" 'dvise ci the
introduction of digital mapping techniques, demonstrate tht .-..dards of quality and
producdvity that should be achieved, and make recommendations for fiutre
Inmprovements.
Equipment
16.   'he Survey Department requires the following equipment to produce and handle digital
mapping and to print maps for distribution to users.
a)    Digital mapping system: Ihe Survey Department has 24 photogrammetric operators
(trained at ITC in the Netherlands or Ile-Ife in Nigeria) but no photogrammetric



-100-                                Annel
Page 4 Of 6
instruments for digital mapping. One photogranmetric analytical plotter, PC based
interactive digial mapping system, Al sizo plotter and appopriate software will bo
purchased to enable the Survey Department lo map one of the eleven towns and then
to start a program of digital mapping from the photooraphy flown for Urban IIb.is
would reduce overstaffing of the photogmmetric instrumens already installed
(mainly very old and needing major renovation or scrapping), and these insme
can be used for corventional mamn  mapping. An experienced photogrammetric
supervisor/operator shoud be supplied by the Consultant for 4 months to assist in the
Ltroducton of digital mapping, and setting realistic standards of quWality and
productivity.
b)    Reprographics equipment: Ibe printing equipment suitable for printing large scale
maps is al more than 30 years old, very unreliable or unusable, and Inefficient for
fast and economical production of large scale maps on demand. The existing 1:2500
scale maps are uneconomically small and it has been agreed to adopt a metric sheet
size covering 2km x lkm for which new printing equipment is essental. The Survey
Department wfll seek the advice of a specialist in cartographic reproduction to ideatify
the requirements, prepare specifications for the procurement of equipment and
consumables to keep the map users in the eleven towns supplied with single color
maps of an acceptable quality at affbrdable cost.
Standards for Urban Mapping
17.   MU Sale: 1:2500 scale is a realistic scale to adopt for general urban mapping, provided it is
produced to a consistendy high standard of accuracy, content and presentation with rigorous quality
management. It is the traditional scale that has been used for many years in Ghana and is well
understood by map users. With digital mapping, it will be possiblh to enlarge town centres to 1:1250
scale where ftis is neceary for parikular applications, even though this wil not increase the
accuracy or content of the map.
18.   Tye of ma product: Digital line maps are printed maps very similar to the conventional
line maps, but can be displayed on computer screens, printed selectvely at different scales, and used
to link and analyze all kinds of spatially related information held in computer databases. All the
inteaonal consultants that might be contcted to produce urban mapping would supply digit data
as a by-product. The long term poteni  for users to add value to the map data by merging them
with other information justifies adopting digit mapping at the commencement of the urban mapping
regeneration phase.
19. Accurm: The accuracy of plotted detail should match the users' ability to scale points and
distances from paper copies which is likely to be the standard medium for the foreseeable future.
Higher accuracies can be achieved by digital mapping and may well be attained in practice but should
not be specified contractually as this may increase the costs without matial benefit to the users.
20.   The stndard accuracy for map detail may be stated as follows:
a)    Grid lines and control points shall be drawn to an accuracy better than -+ 0.3 mm
maximum tolerance.



-101-                            mz
Annex 8
Page S Of 6
Well-defined points of det shall be plotted In their true positions at map scale to
better than i 0.3 mm root mean squre error, when coordinates are scaled off the
map from the nearest grid lines and compared with coordinates determined by prcise
measurement on the ground from the neart cntrol point. (90% of a representatve
sample of well-defined points shall be within + 0.5 mm.)
b)    Similarly the accracy of height information must be related to the needs of generad
users. Detailed engineering works may require higher accuracy in paricular locations
and must be commissioned for the purpose. The generally adopted standards for
contours and heights are as foilows:
c)    Contours shall be correct to a root mean square eror of better than one third of the
contour itval where a representaive sample of points on contour lines is checked
by precise measurement from the nearest control point. (90% of a representative
sample shall be correct to better than half the specifled contour intera.)
d)    Spot heights shall be correct to a root mean square error of better than E 0.3 metres
where a representaive sample is checked by precise measurement from the nearest
control point. (90% of a representve sample shaU be corect to better than + 0.5
metres.)
21. NMaQM: Detil that is usefiul to the majority of users and can be obtained by direct
capture from the aerial photography should be plotted as the marginal cost of extra information is low
pwvided it does not clutter tle map and confuse the general user. Some additional information, not
visible on the aerial photography, such as names of streets and important buildings and road edges
obscured by trees, most be collected on the ground. Ihis is a time consuming and relatively costly
task which should be kept to a minimum.
22.   The old 1:2500 scale line maps have correcdy identified the information normally shown at
this scale, and users are famliar with this. The Town & Country Planning Department have
expressed interest in recordicg the number of storeys (floors) of buildings with more than a single
storey. As this informaion can be extracted direct from the photographs with reasonable certainty at
marginal additional cost, it is recommended that this should be done without being confirmned by
inspecdon on the ground.
23.   Mericaion: It has been Government policy since 1974 to convert all mapping to metric
units. As the urbsm mapping of eleven towns wil be new mapping unconnected to existing maps at
this scale, it provides the ideal opporunity to implement this policy.
24.  Tne Ghana National Grid on a local transverse mercator projtdon in imperial feet, has
already been recalculated In metres and should be used for all future urban mapping. Coordinates
are also available on the Universal Transverse Mercaor Projection which is valuable for international
mapping and exchange, but is not suitable for national mapping as it introduces unnecessarily  ge
scale factors and convergence. Height infoRnnation currently available in feet can easily be converWt
to metres and new contours drawn at vertical intervals of 2 metres.
25.      H     d _   The old 1:2500 scale maps showed 5 foot contours but no spot heights.
In dense urban areas, contus often conflict with planimetric detail and are usually suppressed.
Contours dran at the slighlly wider interal of 2 metres supplemented by spot heights along roads,



-102-
Page 6 of 6
a high and low points and in flat open spaces will provide the uers with more height data without
cluttering the map,
26.   lhe contours and spot height should be recorded as thdimensional data suitable for digital
terrain modelling when the requirement arises.
Cost and Fncdng
km                        Quantl       Log          ForelM       TM1
1.    Premarklng                300 sq km      34                        34
2.    Aerial photography        700 sq km                   122.5        122.S
3.    Ground Control            300 sq km     100                        100
4.    Digital mapping           300 sq hn                   87S          87S
S.    Field completion          300 sq km      45                         45
6.    Technical assistce        9 man months                112.5        112.5
7.    Ataytical plotter &
digia system               1                          140           140
8.    Reprographics and
consumables               2                           120           120
9.    Contingencies                                         40            40
TOTAL                                  179          1,410        1,589
(11%)        (89%)        (100%)
Additonal Documentation
27.   The following documents provide more detailed information on this component and are
avable in the project files:
*     'Mapping and Land Information Management in Support of the Ghana Local
Governme  Developme  Project", 1. Leatherdale, May 1993.
*     Outline Strateg for Mapping of Ten Towns", J. Leatherdale, May 1993. This
includes: Detailed work program; Bill of Quantities; Payment Tenms
*     "Technial Specificatins for AerW Photography of Ten Towns", J. Leatherdae, May
1993.



-1Us-~ ~~hiu
Page I of 7
REPtLUC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Detailed Description
InsttutIonal Stregtheng and Capacity-Building
ObJectives
1.    The objectives of the Institutional Strengthing and Capacity -Building component of LGDP are:
(a) To strengthen the capacity of 11 District Assemblies to plan and manage their available financial,
human, and material resources in an integrated and sustainable manner and (b) To strengthen ceal
govement's capacity to support the activities of the 11 Project District Assemblies consistent with
GOG's overall dentrization policy.
Loation
2.    Within the 11 towns of Bawku, Bolgatanga, Cape Coast, Elmina, Ho, Keta/Anloga,
Koforidua, Sunyani, Swedru, Techiman, and Wa as well as MLGRD's Local Govenment Support
Unit (LGSU), Trainig Support Unit (TSIJ), and Town and County Planming Deparment (TCPD);
also the Survey Department (SD), Land Valuaion Board (LVB), and Tecdnical Services Cete (TSC)
in Accra.
Background
3.    The LGDP is the fourth in a series of IDA-financed urban infrastrucre Improvement projects
in Ghana. The three previous IDA-financed projects (ADRP, PWP, and Urban II) have ontributed
to, and/or are continuing, improvement of MLGRD's capacity to provide effcive support to local
govenments in the context of GO's current decentralization policy. Under the Urban I Project,
MLGRD is being assisted to establish the LGSU, to assist, coordinate, and monitor District
Assemblies with respect to their roles in Implementg urban irastructure projects, and the TSU,
which wil be responsible for designing and implementg a local government training program.
Nevertheless, the LODP is the first Bank-supported urban development project to be fully designed
and implemented following the most recett articulation of GOG's decentralization policy.
4.    The ititudonal strengthening and capacity-building effrts financed by LGDP take into
account GOG's evolving decenization policy. I/ As reflected in a growing body of legislation,
2I the continuing premise of Ghana's decentralization policy is that District Assemblies will
V     See GHANA - Strenten Loca Initiative and Builing Local Cpcty Sector Study Report No.
11369.01 (Wasbington, D.C.: The Wodd Bark, Pebray 1993.
21    See PNDC LAw No. 207 (9M), te nvaious Establshment Acs for each of the 110 Disttdct
Assemblie in Ghan (1988), h new Civil Service Act (PNDC Law No. 327, Januay 6, 193), the.
Costiution of tho Fourth Repblic (which became effective January 7, 1993), and various regulaions
goVerig the operation of finanial and prsonnl        m    AdioiI logi with
repect to the District Assembly Common fund (mandated by tde Constitution) and  to the
cuent Local Govemmnt Act have been prepaed. Plimn   texts of thes prposls be so been



-104-                              An
Page 2 of 7
eventually have fil dcetionary responsibility for policy formulation, plaing, implementation and
anenance with respect to, among other things: (i) community development; (I) town and country
planning; (ii) public works; and the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of (iv) roads and
sree; (v) markets; (vi) car parks; and (vii) waste management system.
5.    District Assemblies, as corporate bodies, perform both legiWative and executive functions.
Lesative authority resides in a body of Counclors, two-thirds of whom ar popularly elected. The
legislative body of the Assembly must meet at least four times a year. Executive authority resides In
an Executive Committee. lbat Committee consists of not more than one-third of the total number of
councilors elected from among themselves by the total membership of the Distiict Assembly. 3/ A
District Chief Executive, appoinbd by the President with the prior approval of two-thirds of the
members of the District Assembly (present and voting), serves as Chairman of the District Executive
Committe. It is the District Executive Committee wbich implements th policies of the Assembly.
Five Sub-Committees of the District Executive Committee are mandated by law: (i) Development
Planning; (ii) Social Services; (iii) Works; (iv) Justice and Security; and (v) Finance and
Administration. Additional Sub-Commitees can be established by District Assemblies at their own
discretion. Untl now, the entities responsible for actually implementing the legiated policies of the
Assembly and executive decisions of ^he District Executive Committee (and Sub-Committees) have
been the staff of the 22 former central government departments assigned to district levels. Those staff
were made nominally responsible directy to District Assemblies by PNDC Law NO. 207 in 1988; but
that intention has not yet ben effectively Implemented.
6.    Although new and projected legislation represents progress towards significant autonomy of
District Assemblies, primary reliance on central government for investment finance and staff will
remain for the indefinite flture. Nevertheless, specific actions can be taken by District Assemblies,
within the scope of exisig legislation, to increase their own-generated revenue and exercise
managerial discredon with respect to staff deployment. The LGDP responds to those pportnimes by
strngthening the capacity of the 11 District Assemblies to more effectively use the discetionary
power avalable to them.
Deciption
7.    The Institonal S ening and Capacity-Building Component consis of two Sub-
Components: (a) improving the management capacity of 11 District Assemblies and (b) strengthening
the capacity of Central Govemment to support the appropriate acies of those District Asembies.
The Project will prvide equipment, vehicles, training, technical assisttace, operational support, ad
design and superviskia support to those Assemblies and key centr govnment entities. Detailed
descriptions of these specific items are provided in Annexes 10 C(raning) and 15 Crechnical
Asistance). In addition, LGDP will fiance the preparation of a future urban development project, if
and as required.
reviewe during appWaisal of the proosed LODP.
noTh Piding Maber of tOh District Asembly, who is also elcted by tho Assembly a a whole from
amg dhir membes, is the ony Coucilor expHicy ecluded a offico fom membebip in to
Exec_tve Coa _ite



-105-
Amuz9
Page 3 of 7
8.    ImiM at                Caggeit   -  di        Asmbli. The current authority of District
Assemblies was recendy enhanced by the enactment of the nev, Civil Service Law, 1993, which
established an Office of District Administration responsible to a District Coordinat   Officer (DCO).
Each DCO is responsible for co-ordinating the activities of District Assembly Departments; this is a
new designation for the previous 22 central government departments which were nominally
decentralized in 1988. Further enhancement of the authority of District Assemblies is expected
through a new Local Govemnment Act (1993) which has been drafted and will soon be submitted to
Parliament. This new Act, if approved, will reinforce the intentions of the current PNDC Law No.
207 by providing more detail with respect to important implememation requirements.
9.    The legislative evolution of decentralization has not, however, been matched by equivalent
implementation. Past experience with decentralization policy in Ghana suggests the need for an
explicit implementation program to give practical effect to such policies. District Assemblies can, and
must, do more to exercise the authority already provided to fully integrate and cohesively deploy the
staff of the 22 former departments at district level. Tle project supports District management in four
ways: (a) district reorganization; O) improved local policy and legislative oversight; (c) management
team-building; and (d) pilot use of personal services contracts.
10.   District Reorganizton. Although inadequate skills among staff assigned to District
Assemblies contribute to lack of capacity at local levels, additional problems arise from: ()
ambiguous authority relationships among Assemblymen/women, executive staff, and the staff of
previously centralized departments assigned to local levels and Cii) insufficient attention to assigning
apprpriate persons to required tasks and integrang approprie personnel into effective action-teams.
Therefore, the immediate objective of this sub-component is improved capacity to implement and
sustain project befits trough effective integration of the staff of previously centralized departments
assigned to district level. LGDP supports that objective by assisting the project's 11 District
Assemblies to reduce the number of dstrict-level departments and establish an effectve intd
structure within departments. To complement this internal reorganization of executive functions, the
orgaation of legislative responsibilities for urban development policy-decisions and oversight will
also be reinforced within the Assemblies themselves.
11.   The cument draft Local Govermment Act, 1993 will amend previous legislation by
distinguishng among three different types of districts: (i) Metropolis; 0i) Municipality; and (iii)
Distict. The primary factors distinguishing one type from another will be population size, density,
and type of economic activity. All 11 LGDP District Assemblies would be included in the District
category; i.e., the least urbanized. District Assemblies in the least urbanized category will be
required to establish 11 District Department 41 which are meant to replace the previous structure of
the 22 decentralized central government departments at the district level. However, although the
departmental structure of District Assemblies will be mandated by the new legislation, the intemal
strucre and staffing of those 11 departments will be at the discretion of each District Assembly. For
example, although a Department of Agriculture and Forestry is mandated, District Assemblies will
retn complete discretion as to whether or not their Department would contain a Fisheries Unit and,
MmTh 11 madated District Dpartments which t least urband District Assemblies will be rquired to
saubHsh are.: (i) Centa Ad a ;  ) Fimnce; (ii) Educatioa and Sports; (iv) Distict Haet,;
(v) Agicultu  and Forestry; (vi) Plnnig; (vii) Soca Wefr and Community Developmt (vi)
Natural Rusour  Consration; (ix) Work; (x) Industry and Trade; and (xi) Disa  Prevento



-106-                            Annex
Page 4 of 7
if so, how that unit would be staffed. Indeed, a District Assembly will be legally authorized to staff
only that part of a Department which focusses on its priority programs.
12.   LGDP will assist each of the 11 District Assemblies to formulate and implement a
reorganiztion plan tailored to its own priority programs. Specifically, the District Co-ordinating
Officer will be assisted by the District Management Consultants (see Annex 15, Section 3) financed
by the project. Emphasis will be placed In the first instance on the organization and integration of
those functions most Important for the implementation and sustainability of the infrastructure
investments financed by LGDP.
13.   Policy and Legislative Oversight. The Works and Finance and Administration Sub-
Committees of the District Executive Committee will be assisted to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of their oversight function with respect to the relevant LGDP component by including
them directly in the policy formulation and Implementation activities of the Project. The Works Sub-
Committee will be assisted to focus on monitoring the responsibilities of the Municipal Engineer for
construction and O&M, E/ while the Finance and Administration Sub-Committee will be assisted
with respect to the Fmancial Improvement (see Annex 5) and District Reorganization components of
the Project. Assistance will be provided by the three field based consultants (i.e., Engineering
Advisor, Finance Advisor, and Management Advisor; see Annex 15) and through participation by
Sub-Committee members in relevant training (see Annex 10).
14.   Management Team-Building. Although PNDC Law No. 207 decentralized 22 Centra
Government departments and asserted the principle that the staff of those departments assigned to
District levels would henceforth be responsible to the respective District Assemblies, tha has not
occurred in practice. District Chief Executives and District Administrative Officers have complained
that each of the decentralized departments continue to operate as separate and discrete entities, the
management and staff of which have not responded to the policy priorities or instructions of District
Assemblies. The result has been that managerial and technical resources officially available to the
District Assemblies have not been integrated into a cohesive organization sharing a common mission
and priority objectives. Indeed, the continual existence of parochial atachments by managers and
staff to their former ministries was a primary reason for the enactment of the Civil Service Law, 1993
and the drafting of a new Local Government Act for expected legislative approval during 1993.
15.   Thus, the objective of this component is to integrate various managers and supervisors
responsible to the 11 Project District Assemblies into an integrated District Management Team. The
primary mechanism for management team-building is the preparation of annual implementation action
plans by each of the 11 IDistrict Assemblies for all project components. That requirement will serve
the need for operationally feasible project implementation plans and indicators for monitoring those
plans. At the same time, the process employed for the preparation of those plans will serve to
develop the capacity to integrate the participation of managers and staff of the 11 new reorganized
District Departments.
16.   The following annual sequence of activities will serve as the catalyst for fostering integrated
management at the District level: (i) an Action-Planning workshop; (Hi) program planning; (iii)
C Cnddeat will be given in each of the 11 Project District Assemblies o tho establisme of a
separae Opera  and Maintnance Oversigiw Sub-Committee as part of the Distict Reorgaizaon
813b-com~ent of the Projet



-107-
Annex9
Page 5 of 7
technical review; and (iv) District Mangement Team decision-meetings. An importat actvity wil
be the preparation of anmnal operational plans within the context of clear development strategies
(including both investnent and recurrent expenditure prections and commitments). Eventually, the
process will encompass both investment and recurrent operational planning for all of the programs
and organizaional entities within district government, but, during the initial tee year implementatlon
period of LGDP, these annual exercises will be limited to operational work-plans for Project
implementation and resulting O&M requirements. In addition, the first annual Action-Planning
Workshop will include consideration of the District reorganization agenda of the LGDP, thereby
laying the foundation for the detailed design of the reorganization to follow (paras. 10-12). The
Action-Planning Workshops and program focussed planning exercises will cross-cut sectoral and
organizational barriers, thus increasing the need for interaction among all district level staff.
17.  lTis program is not self-implementing; it cannot be expected to be successfully implemened
at the outset by itself. There are specialized techniques which will need to be employed to catalyze
the process until such time as it becomes routine and can be managed by the District Management
Team itself (i.e., 36 months). Therefore, LGDP wi}l finance four Ghanaian consultants with
organizational development process skills to assist the 11 District Management Teams (and the
District Planning Officer) to design, organize, and conduct the annual district development plamning
process (see Annex 15, Section 3). A total of 160 person-months of national consultants TA will be
provided for the management improvements discussed above.
18.   Personal Serices Contracts. Ardcle 17 of the Civil Service Law, 1993 provides for the
'contracting out of specific areas in the (public) Service to private persons." The Office of the Head
of the Civil Service (OHCS) has confirmed that one of the intentions of that provision, combined with
those enabling District Assemblies to exercise more control over staff employment, is to eventually
rely on District Assemblies to employ and finance their own staff and to foster, in that context, a
labor market approach to public sector employment. Such an approach to public sector employment
at the district-level, through the use of personal services contracts, was also recommended in the
Bank's recent decentralization sector report.
19.   A labor market approach to public employment at district levels responds to the demonstrated
problem that incentives for civil servants generally, and those serving in remote districts in particular,
do not adequately foster effective and efficient performance. Thus, private sector contracting and
personal services contracts allow District Assemblies, to the extent that financing is available, to craft
terms and conditions of service which compensate for the differential envronments presented by work
in one place rather than another. In that way, the market can be expected to determine the reasonable
cost of necessary incentives.
20.   As a complementary step towards rationalizing their internal organizaion, the I1 LGDP
District Assemblies will establish the positions of Municipal Engineer, Finance Officer, and Personel
Officer to head the Departments of Works and Finance and the Personnel Unit in the Department of
General Administration, respectively. Officers will be directly recruited for these positions from
outside the established Civil Service by the 11 District Assemblies themselves under the terms of
individually negotiated six-year fixed (renewable) Personal Services Contracts.
21.   The financing of the pilot personal services contract scheme will be based on the same
premise as the Project's O&M component; i.e., District Assemblies own-generated revenues will be
increased significantly as the Project sponsored Revenue Improvement Action Plans (RJAPs) are
implemented. Thus, District Assemblies will be expected to increase their own contribution to the



-108-
Annex 9
Page 6 of 7
costs of personal services contracts over time. Specifically, 100 percent of the cost of the three
positions per District Assembly will be finced by Central Governnent for the first two years.
During the third and fourth year, Centra Govenment wffil finance 60 percent of the cost; District
Assemblies the other 40 perce. During the fift year, District Assemblies will finance 60 percent of
the cost; Central Government the remaining 40 percent. By the sixth year of the contract, the District
Assembly would finance 100 percent of the cost. The Figure below illustrates the financing
arrangement.
PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS:
COST-SARIN ARRAtNGMNTS
100
90
80                                                  DISTRICT ASSENBLY SHARE
60
X 50
40
30              CENTRAL  H T  SHIU
20
10
0
Year      Year        Year       Year       Year        Years
1         2           3          4         5         6 & amards
22.   The specific terms and conditions of service will be separately negoaed for each Individual.
Therefore, only an estimated average cost, multiplied by 33 positions, has been included in the cost
tables for the Project. Because a major share of the costs will be borne by Central Government as a
part of its local financing of LGDP, 000 will need to approve all such contracts; as will IDA.
Nevertheless, if this demonstration of a labor-mket approach to key positions is successl, District
Aemblies will eventaly determine for themselves terms and conditions of servce because they wil
be solely responsible for financing such positions.
23.   Centrl Goeernment Suppof otist Assnblies: 7he purpose of this component is to
strengthen central government's capacity to support the activities of the 1I LGDP District Assemblies
consistent with GOG's overall decentralization policy. Although LGDP will rely primarily on the
insittional strengthening efforts undertken at central government levels currently fiaced by Urban
H, some limited technical assistance, equipment, and operational support will be provided to
MLGRD, TSC, and Sbrvey Department. That assistance is detailed in Annexes 10 (ring), 6
(Land Valuation Board), 7 (rown and County Planning), 8 (Survey Department), and 5 (Ditrict
Finances).



illi fli{l
GXx t    X I.  *"
| i lEal-   XjX ^i' 
&   f]il4       X#^



-110-Anxf
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Desaiption
Training to             Distict    agment Capadty
Objectives
1.    Assist GOG to provide cost-efficient and effective training to staff and councilors of 11
District Assemblies and selected Members of Parliament to strengthen district level capacity to
manage available financial, human, and material resources in an integrated manner.
2.    Within the 11 towns of Bawku, Bolgatanga, Cape Coast, Elmina, Ho, Keta, Koforidua,
Sunyani, Swedru, Tchiman, and Wa and various Ghanan and extemra training institutons.
Backround
3.    Strengtening the capacity of 11 DistrIct Assemblies is the training focus of LGDP. That
fsomplemens curt effirts to strngthen capacity at the central govement level already
supxorted by Urban I. This, Urban 11 is financing constuction of a new Institute of Local
(Govement Trainig  LGI) in Accra, rehabilitation of the Local Government Training Center in
Tamale ad the development of a traning program for both central government and District staff
includlng training of trais). TSC is also already benefitftng with respect to training from Urban
nl
Description
4.    Ihe Project will finance technical assistance and logistics support for the design, organization,
and Imlem on of on-the-job and classroom training programs and orientation workshops,
development of trang mawtls, and traning of trainers and workhop facilitators.
5.       iects of Trainin&Based on a preliminary survey of skill deficiencies among District
Assembly staff In 11 districts during April-May 1993, priority areas for training have been tentatively
idenied, as follows: (J) finacl management (for District Fnance Officers and Principal Accounts
Officees); (H) management of waste management systems (for relevant technical officers and health
sta); (il) accutng and bookVeeping (for Revenue Inpectors); Civ) project plamnng (for District
Planming Officers); (v) project management (for Senior Works Superintendents); (vi) personnel
management (for relevant senior officers); and (vii) orientation to the functions of District Assemblies
and the roles of District Asembly Councilors and District Officers (for Distict Assembly Couneiors
and Distt Officers). Nevertheless, detaied district-level training needs asessments and assessment
of capacity and interests of relevant Ohane   tainig institutions have not yet been completed.
Therefoe, prepaion of the first anual training plan (para. II below), based on such needs and
supply a    ", will be a condition of effectiveness.



-111-                       AmIAnne  I
Page 2 of 3
6.    Types of Training. In assessing the human resource needs of the 11 District Assemblies
included within the project and the needs of MLGRD to coordinate support to the sector, LGDP will
finance a combination of on-the-job training, courses at Ghanaian training institutions, and external
seminars and workshops.
7.    On-e-Job Training(OllW . Targeted instruction will be provided at work sites on a periodic
basis. Topics will include: (i) work procedures, (i) equipment operation, (iii) efficient use of
materials, (iv) planning work assignments, (v) maintenance procedures, (vi) management of the work-
place, (vii) safety, and other related topics. Instruction will be provided primarily by senior staff to
their subordinates and by technical assistance personnel financed by the Project (see Annex 15).
Emphasis will be placed on standardizing procedures and developing a team approach to work
assignments. Depending upon the requirements of individual District Assemblies, these modules are
estimated to involve 2 to 4 hours of instruction per month on a continual basis throughout the year.
8.    Courses at Local Training Institutjpps. Numerous training programs are currently provided at
Government institutions. With respect to various types of planning and management training,
available institutions include the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA),
the Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI), and the School of Administaton of
the University of Ghana (UG/SA). Within the private sector, the Program for Effective Management
(PEM) and the Institute of Management and Administrative Sciences (IMAS) also offer planning and
management training courses. Various types of technical skills training is offered by the University
of Science and Technology (USI), the Polytechnics in Accra, Tamale, Takoradi, Ho and Kumasi, the
Accra Technical Training College, the Kumasi Technical Institute, and the technical training centers
of GWSC and MWH. The Accra Technical Training College and Kumasi Technical Institute have
been receiving considerable assistance from the Government of Saskatchewan through CIDA, which
maintains an Office of Technical Education in Accra for support of that program. To the extent
appropriate to the specific requirements of LGDP, courses normally provided by appropriate training
institutions will be relied on to improve job skills at both senior and junior levels. However, other
courses wfll need to be custom designed to respond to specific requests of District Assemblies.
9.    Orientation Training for District Assembly Councilors and Members of Parliament. Two
types of orientation courses will be provided to District Assembly Councilors and Members of
Parliament: (i) functions of District Assemblies and the roles of District Assembly Councilors and
District Officers provided by MLGRD and Q) alternative systems for the distribution of revenue
sources among central government and District Assemblies provided by consultants to Parliament's
Finance Committee andlor the Financial Management consultants (such training for District Assembly
Councilors would be limited primarily to sources of finance available to District Assemblies).
10.   Enal Seminas and WorkshA. During the first 5 year period of the LGDP, the Project
will finance participation of two senior persons from each of 11 DAs to attend seminars and
workshops outside Ghana. Seminars and workshops will be conducted by internationally recognized
institutions in the field of public administration and local government operations. Each District
Assembly will include proposed eternal seminars or workshops in their relevant annual training
plans. Witi respect to extnal workshops and seminars, information in the annual training plans will
include: (i) the trainee's name, tite, time in post and job fimctions, (ii) previous training received
during the past 3 to 5 years, (Hi) seminar/workshop topics and host institution, and (iv) costs
including tuition, travel and living expenses.



-112-                         Anne% 10
Page 3 of 3
11.   PrenWaratio of Annual Training Plans. Each District Assembly will be assisted by field-based
management advisers (see Annexes 9 and 15) to prepare annual training plans specifying the mix of
training inputs proposed for its staff. These annual training plans will provide the basis for the timely
allocation of f inds, support materials, and external assistance during the subsequent year. Annual
training plans will include: (i) topics to b5 covered, (ii) names of participants, (iii) the insdtution
providing training, (iv) the timing and duration of the course, (v) the cost of tuition, (vi) training
materials required, (vii) cost of external training services (when used) and materials, and (viii)
scheduling. Plans will be approved by MLGRD or retuned to the respective District Assemblies
with recommendations for changes. The plans for orientation courses for District Assembly
Councilors and Members of Parliament will be prepared by MLGRD.
Implementation Responsibilities
12.   Each District will be responsible for preparing and managing its own individual annual
training program and will be provided with a specified annual training budget under the terms of the
Project. MLGRD will be responsible for coordinating any LGDP-related training which involves the
staff of more hn one District Assembly when such Assemblies request joint participation in training
courses. Ihe Ministry will also be responsible for managing specified orientation training for District
Assembly Councilors and Members of Parliament and for informing District Assemblies of training
opportundes within Ghana and abroad. The Technical Services Centre (ESC) will be responsible for
ensuring that activities financed under this sub-component are consistent with activities undertaken as
part of other project components; as well as overall financial management, monitoring, procurement,
accounting, disbursement, auditing, and reporting functions. Nevertheless, it is important to stress
here ta  most training financed by LGDP to staff and members of legislative assemblies at district
level will be demand-driven; i.e., responsive to the specific capacity needs of each District Assembly
as identified by senior district level staff and approved by the District Assembly itself. In response to
such initiatives by individual District Assemblies, consultants and tralning institutions will collaborate
to develop appropriate training materials and course content. This aspect of course development will
draw extensively from similar activities funded under the Curriculum Development component of the
Urban II Project.
Fstbmted Costs
13.   Total training cost is estimated at US$0.537 million equivalent (Cedis 332.2 million) base
cost, excluding finance of technical assistance not exclusively provided for the training sub-component
described here (see Annex 15 for costs of all project-related technical assistance).
FINANCING PLAN
(USS 000)
Year   Year   Year   Year   Year       Total                total
1      2      3      4      5    LocaL  Foreign
DistrIct-Focussed Tra ining   55     55    55       55     55    275        --            275
(OJT & Local Classroom X
US$5 thousand x 11
districts B year)
Orientation Training          20     32         -           -      5Z       --             S2
(Councilors and Nembers
of Parliament)
Extrnmal Sminrs and           --    70    70       70      --      --      210            210
Vorkshops
T0TAL          75     157   125     125    55      32n      210         537



-113-                                Annex 11
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arangements
1.    Implementation arrangements for LGDP will necessarily take Into account GOG's current
decentralization policy as embodied in various laws and regulations, both current and pending (See
Annex 9). In summary the premise of Ghana's decentralization policy is that District Assemblies will
have complete devolved responsibility for policy formulation, planning, implementation and
maintnce with respect to, among other things: (i) community development; (ii) town and country
planning; (iii) public works; and the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of (iv) roads and
streets; (v) markets; (vi) sanitation; (vii) water; (viii) electricity; and (ix) motor parks. To fulfill
those responsibilities, tender boards have been established at both District and Regional levels (the
former authorized to act with respect to procurement under approximately US$2 million; the latter
fom approximately US$2 million to $5 million).
2.    Nevertheless, District Assemblies remain almost completely dependent on Central
Govemnment for investment finance and for staff to implement, operate, and maintain such
investments. LGDP project implementation arrangements take that current reality into account, while
also recognizing that policies are evolving and district-level capacity is expected to improve.
Description
3.    Figure 1 summarizes the principles on the basis of which responsibilities have been assigned
among MLGRD, TSC and District Assemblies and the way that the implementation arrangements for
LGDP respond to those principles.
4.    Because of the existing capacity of TSC which has been built up through three previous IDA-
supported projects, and the support being provided to strengthen MLGRD under the Urban II project
curreny underway, 1/ primary reliance will be placed on those two Government entities to
implement LGDP. Nevertheless, because LGDP is the first IDA-financed urban development project
to be initated under the terms of Government's current decentralization policy, District Assemblies
will have significant responsibilities for implementing particular aspects of LGDP. A fuller
description of implementation arrangements follows.
VI    MLGRD is being assisted to (a) establish a Local Government Support Unit (LGSU) to assist,
coordinate, and monitor district Assemblies with respect to their roles in implementation of
urban inastucture projects and (b) improve its capacity to meet, at least in part, the trini
needs of District Assemblies by the establishment of a Training Support Unit MSU)
responsible for designing and implementing a Local Government Training Program.



-114-                                    Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
F%gure 1
nRUZIUS IWWUTATIa ud  STAIAILITma
PRO=  IWWLEflATIOa ALRAVIEST
Do not sacrifice sustalarklllty to umAe concem        M  LOOP w1tut be iqArmted mtirelt by pre-
for short-tem copletlon of project iqpIntatian.   existirn goelnt t agencies acting in canjuetl
with the private sector (I.e., no project-specifi
PIU); (11) relltae fs ptaced for  e1uentatian
of L0P an the restts (or contiuing effort) of
institutialt strengthening e.nents of previ
projects at the CentrtoveG   nt level; '(ii)
LSoP prides significant asistance to daelopi
ctipatty at the district lvel (Incltding -f
participation in fwEinng aON asd k  pers l
frm their am resoures); (iv) L0P is deliWed
to be driven by  Ind fra  District Assebles;
sad (v) TA finnced by LCSP Is prided
excltuwlety bvy Local cnuttants.
InAsulte LUOP iplntsttfn as wuc as possibte          (i) *UP retlis to a siginficant extent on the
frmu institutional  8imcetatitles ard  _ak aOn       private sector for project *ptlemetatifn (the
capacity at both central and distriet tevels.        private sector is expected to have better capaci
and respond more rellably than would 66 staff of
District Asseablies wnder current conditions; ard
(ii) primory reliance for suaervislan of the
infrastructure investient cc ponent and day-to-
adminstration of procurasent and ffnancial
activities of the Project is placed an TSC, vith
Its already establishe4d  yt still iqboving.
capacity.
Ptlae suffi clent ephasis on inottutlontl            LUPaqiports a mjor ffort at instftutional
trengthening of Project District Asseoltes          str     ng  ano 11 Project District Assesbtfe
tAil. also reinforcing the capacity-building
efforts within hlGR under the term  of Utban II.
In particular LGDP asststs 11 Project District
Assebtlies to pqwove their capacity to: (1)
procure and sqfoviso private sector firm for
infrastructure oas; (I1) generatlcollaect locat
revaeue; COii) use their ams discretion for th
hirino of staff; and Clv) rationalize their
orsgnizationnl structue ad staffing patterns so
as to best support their oam progra priorities.
S.      The overall strucre of the project is summrized in Figure 2 below. Jnslduionad
arrangements for each project component are fiuther explained in the various other Annexes. In
summary, MLAD wfll have overall responsibility for project implementation. In addition, MLGRD
will be directly responsible for the institudonal strengthening component, especially with respect to
procurement and supervision of technical assistance for improving local revenue collection
performance, financial management systems, and rationalization of the districts organizational
structure and staffing.



-1 1 5-                           Page 3 of 6
lgure 2
Inscdu rth insutio nl sneng    n          Infcre csstent wha
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
undertaken a     f oher p c cponen           otase ad iusaenc  oftMa
Fe sd tabli shn               Revln                             them (seey
Tan                     p          FlevAl d  sory             T     ry
| _   .                    ~~~~~~~~Tea
PlanningDeparet Inthepreparatin o stru          pla n C
6.    T3C will have overall responsibility, on behalf of MLGRD, for project nmangmemet
coordintion, mPnitoing, accin g, auditi procurement, contnt adminin, and reporting
functions, as well as support to project agencies. TSC will also be responsible for ensf  that
activities fined under the snstitutonal strengtaeing component are consistM with activities
undentaken as part of other project compone.t. Beause ISC is an agency of MWH, a
Memorndumof Undernding has been agre (see Annex 18 for thie complete tex).
7.    In the LGDP, the Distict Assemblies will have the following Imletainrsoible:
*Ptoposing, revewing and approving modifcatiors to subprojects.
*  Establising Revenlue Improvement Action Plans and mlmnn them (see Am=
5).
*Collaborating wit the Survey Departnent in tSe preparation of new maps; widh the
!Land Valuation Board in property revaluation; and with the Town and Country
Planning Department in the preparadon of strcucre plans.
*Participafti in bid evaluations.
*Establlfshi O&M fWxds and ta1cilg fidl responsi'bilityfor O&M of facilites financed
under LGDP.



-116-                            Angiu.11
Page 4 of 6
*     Preparing and implementing individual District Assembly reorgaizaion plans.
*     Recruiting a Municipal Engineer, Finance Officer, and Personnel Officer and
negotiatng terms and conditions of service under the terms of personal services
contracts.
*     Being signatories to contracts for local works which are within the financial limits set
by OG for District Tender Boards.
Budgeting and Filnancdal Management
8.    With respect to financing LODP, MFEP represents the GO(   as the borrower of IDA funds
and as the GO party to the IDA Credit Agreement. It also performs an important role with respect
to the generation of GOG's direct financing of a proportion of project costs through the budget of
MLGRD.
9.    TSC will have primary responsibility, on behalf of MLGRD, for budgeting and management
of funds provided under the terms of LGDP. Thus, TSC will: (a) facilitate approval of financing for
approved sub-projects; (b) mainain, jointly with MLGRD, a Special Account for the holding and
disbursing of IDA funds and a Project Account for the holding and disbursing of GO counterpart
fxnds, authorized signatories for which will include at teast one signature each from ISC and
MLGRD (NOTE: Adoption of this clause will be subject to any over-riding clauses regarding the
authorized procedures for maintining LGDP-related bank accounts and disbursements from those
accounts included in the GOG/IDA Credit Agreement; including the possibility of the relevant District
Assemblies holding and disbursing any financial contributions that might be provided by their own
sources); and (c) maintain financial accounts and provide periodic financial reports as required. Sub-
project accounts will be established in each of the LGDP districts finmced from the project account
operated by TSC/MLGRD. Payments to local consultants and contractors will be made from such
accounts.
Procurement and Contract Administtion
10.   TSC will have overall responsibility for supervising procurement activities and contract
administraion; with specific subordinate responsibilities involving LGSU, District Assemblies, and
relevant tender boards at district, regional, and central government levels (as required by GO0
procurement regulations). Organizational arrangements have been designed so as to conform with
IDA procurement guidelines. ITe Ghana Supply Commission (0SC) has a special role in the review
of bid documents and in bid evaluations for the procurement of goods under the waste management
sub-component of LGDP.
Techial Assistance
11. Details concerning the implementation arrangements for technical assistance are provided in
Annex 15. In summary, TSC will be responsible for providing logistical and administrative support
for TA personnel. Nevertheless, responsibflities for managing TA personnel wiUl be divided among
TSC, LGSU, and the appropriate technical or administrative departaent/unit at district level. The
broad division of responsibilities will be between TSC as the manager of the infrastructure part of the
project and the MLGRD as the manager of the institutional development and capacity-building part



-117-                               Annexl1
Page 5 of 6
In particular, LGSU will be responsible for recruiting and supervising the four TA Field Advisory
Teams finaned by the Project.
Taning
12.   Details concerning the Implementation arrangements for training are provided in Annex 10.
OJT directed towards strengdtening practical technical skills of junior staff will be provided by local
supervisors and various TA consultants within the 11 Project Districts. Training coordination at
district levels wil be the responsibility of the District Assembly personnel officer (or other specific
person assigned to this function). The person(s) responsible for organizing training will receive a
short course in Training Management (raining of Trainers) if necessary, and will also obtain advice
and assistance from consultants engaged in the project and local training institutions as needed. A-
annual training plan will be prepared in advance of each fiscal year and submitted to IDA for review
and no-objection. Preparation of the first annual training plan by each Project District will be a
condition of Effectiveness. Following the first year of the project, subsequent annual training plans
will also include an assessment of training activities carried out in the previous year. Within the cost
envelope of the project training component, training funds will be allocated to each District Assembly
on the basis of the annual taing plan. When and where additional funds for training are available
trough Government and/or other donors, this will be so noted and included in the annual training
plan.
Monitoring huplementation Performance
13.   Overall policy guidance for LGDP resides in MLGRD. In exercising that responsibility,
MLGRD will be assisted by TSC for the provision of day-to-day technical management, accounting,
and coordination. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by the Minister of Loca
Government and Rur Development and comprising the Chief Director of MLW RD, the heads of
TSC, LGSU, and TSU, and representatives of MFEP, NDPC, Ministry of Lands and Forestry
(NL1), OHCS, and the 11 District Assemblies will meet quarterly to review the progress of the
project. TSC will also act as the Secretariat for the PCC.
14.   On a day-to-day basis, TSC will be directly responsible for monitoring the technical and
financial performance of sub-projects for the construction or rehabilitation of roads and drains, waste
management systems and facilities, markets, and lorry parks. LGSU will be primarily responsible for
monitoring day-to-day technical and financial performance of sub-projects directed toward improved
revenue generation and management capacity at district levels, as well as the performance of all
technical assistance provided in that regard. TSU will be primarily responsible for monitoring day-to-
day technical and financial performance of training programs. The responsibilites of LGSU and TSU
for monitoring performance as specified above does not authorize either of those entities to make
binding decisions concening the implementation of the referenced components of LGDP. Iheir role
with regard to responsibilities identified in this paragraph is to advise MLGRD with respect to any
implementation problems that might be emerging.
Infrastcture Investment
15.   Detas concerning implemention arrangemes for infrastructure investments are provided in
Anmex 2. With respect to infratructure components, District Assemblies have sole responsibility for
identfying and prioritizing proposals. However, with respect to the 11 towns included in the LGDP,
idetification and prorfization of specific investments to be financed by LGDP will have been



Annea11
Page 6 of 6
completed prior to project effectiveness. Nevertheless, the on-going involvement of District
Assemblies in reviewing implementation experience and, perhaps, proposals for substituting new or
revised subprojects for previously approved investments will be necessary throughout implementation
of the project. Primary reliance will be placed on annual action-planning workshops involving the
staff from District Assemblies, MLGRD, MFEP and TSC for review and design of changes required
by experience.
16.   A flexible approach to project design and implementation is particularly relevant to LGDP
because changes can be expected in several factors likely to directly affect project implementation.
Changes in the structure of incentives within the GOG are likely independent of actions taken within
LGDP. At the same time, improved facilities, skills, and systems for planning, finance, and
management, at both Central and local government levels, will develop as a direct result of LGDP.
Iherefore, at least some proposals for changing urban infrastructure projects under LGDP are
expected to be received from District Assemblies by TSC which, in turn, would contract with private
sector consultants to assess their feasibility. When specific proposals are judged to be feasible,
private consultants would prepare detailed engineering design, under the supervision of TSC.
17.   In addition to TSC's role as outlined above, it will also be responsible for approving contracts
between the responsible District Assembly and providers for each LGDP-financed urban infrastructure
investment prior to actual disbursements for implementation of such contracts (as will the approval of
IDA where required by the GOG/IDA Credit Agreement).
DtIct Assembly Capacity-Building
18.   Details concerning arrangements for District Assembly capacity building are provided in
Annex 9. The MLGRD has overall responsibility for the strengthening of the District Assemblies.
The strengthening of Technical Departments will be accomplished through the LGSU, the engagement
of a locally recruited Municipal Engineer for each city, and training. The Municipal Engineer will be
responsible for developing and installing appropriate engineering management systems, including
programming, budgeting, project management, and infrastructure and vehicle maintenance systems.
The Engineer will be supported under the project through technical assistance. LGSU would,
however, rely upon the support of TSC for advice on drafting TORs for techical assistance and the
procurement of vehicles and equipment.



-119-
Alm 12
Page 1 of 4
REP1BLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for Detailed Project Preparation
Ation
Preparation of detailed
engineering, bid documents,
and operation and
maintenance programs for the
following groups of DAs:
* Upper Region:
Bawku, Bolgatanga, Wa
Brong Ahafo Region:
Sunyani, Techiman
3 Volta and Eastern Regions:
Keta, Ho, Koforidua
e Central Region:
Cape Coast, Elmina, Swedru
Four consultancies are
envisaged arranged in
four geographically based
assignments as above.
Detailed design report,
engineering and bid
documentation will be prepared
in packages as follows:
(a) Detailed engineering/bid
documents for civil works for
roads and drainage.
(b) Detailed engineering/bid
documents for civil works for
markets and lorry parks.
(c) Detailed engineering/bid
documents for civil works for
solid and liquid waste disposal
sites.



-120-
AM 2
Page 2 of 4
AdUon                                     WO D
(d) Detailed engineeing/bid
documents for civil works for
solid waste collection and
sanitation faciities.
* Finalize TOR, LOI, S/List             MLGRD C             Done
* Review/no objection                   IDA                 Done
* Request for proposals                 MLGRD/TSC           Done
e Proposals submitted                   Consultants         Done
* Evaluation and report to IDA          MLGRDSC             Done
* Review and no objection               IDA                 Done
* Contract negotiated and signed        MLGRDJmCI
Consultants         January 0O,1994
e Consultants commence                  Consultants         January 15, 1994
* Draft detailed designs & bid
documen delivered                      Consultants         June 01, 1994
e Draft designs and bid documens
reviewed                               TSC/IDA             July 01, 1994
* Designs and bid documents
completed                              Consultant          September 01, 1994
2.    Preparation of detailed
technical specifications and
bid documens for wastes
management vehicles and
eqipment.
* Finalize TOR, LOI, S/List             MLGRDJC             December 15, 1993
* Review/no objection                   IDA                 Jauary 15, 1994
* Request for proposals                 MLGRDmC              February 01, 1994
* Proposals submitted                   Consuluts           Apri 15, 1994
* Evaluation & report to IDA            MLGRD/TSC           May 15, 1994
*Review and no objecdon                 IDA                 June 15, 1994
* Contract negotiated and signed        M GRDfrSC/
Consulns            Augs 01, 1994
* Consultants commence                  Consultants         August 15, 1994
* Draft designs and bid
documents delivered                    Consuitats          Jauary 01, 1994
* Draft designs and bid
douments reviewed                      Consultant          March 01, 1994
* Bid documents filized                 Consultants         April 01, 1994
NoM~ Project efectveness dependent on finalization of detailed e_gring and the production of
draft bid docments for all pkages detailed in 1 and 2 above.



-121-
Anne 12
Page 3 of 4
Acan                                    Resgnsiilty         no
3.    Carrying out of Training Needs
Assessments in each of the 11
DAs and Training Institutions
Assessment of capacity to
provide required traing:
* Finalize TOR, S/List                  MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Review/No objection                   IDA                 Done
* Request for proposals                 MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Proposals submitted                   ConsuItants         Done
* Evaluation & report to IDA            MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Review/no objection                  IDA                  December 15, 1993
* Appoint consultants                   MLGRD/TSC           January 15, 1994
* Inception Report delivered            Consultants         February 15, 1994
* Draft Final Report                    Consultants         May 15, 1994
= Review/comments                       MLGRDSC             June 15, 1994
^ Final Report delivered                Consultants         July 01, 1994
4.    Completion and submission to
IDA of letter of Local
Government Policy.                      MLGRD               January 15, 1994
S.    Aerial Photography in 11 Towns:
* Contact KLM Aerocarto to
verify their availability and
willingniess to carry out
aerial photography for LGDP
during September-November
flight period                         Survey Dept. mTSC    Done
* Prepare amendment as an
Addendum to KLM-Aerocarto
contract                              Survey Dept./TSC    January 02, 1994
* Commence pre-marking and
ground control in each town            Survey Dept.f=C     January 02, 1994
* Submit amendment/addendum
to World Bank for no objection         Survey Dept./TSC    January 15, 1994
* Review and no objection               IDA                 February 01, 1994
* Finalize bid documents for
ICB procurement of mapping
and other services                     Survey Dept./TSC    February 01, 1994
* Sign add-on with Aerocarto            MLNR                February 15, 1994
* Complete pre-marking and
ground conrol                          Survey Dept.        February 15, 1994
* Send bid documents to
World Bank for no objection           Survey Dept.         March 01, 1994
* Review and no objection               IDA                 March 15, 1994



-1 22-
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Adtbn                                   Responsibilty       a"
* Invite proposals for mapping services  Survey Dept./TSC    April 01, 1994
 Proposals submitted                   Consultants         May 15, 1994
* Evaluation and report to IDA          Survey Dept./TSC    June 15, 1994
* Review and no objection               IDA                 July 01, 1994
* Contract negotiated/signed            Survey Dept.lTSC    August 01, 1994
* Consultants commence                  Consultants         August 15, 1994
* Consultant delivers maps              Consultants         December 15, 1994
6.    Preparation of Revenue Improvement
Action Plans (RIAPs)
* Finalize TOR, LOI S/List              MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Review/No obJection                   IDA                 Done
* Request for proposal                  MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Proposals submitted                   Consultants         Done
* Evaluation and report to IDA          MLGRD/TSC           Done
* Review and no objection               IDA                 Done
* Contract negotiated/signed            MLGRD/TSC/
Consultants         December 15, 1993
* Consultants Commence                  Consultants         January 02, 1994
* Draft RIAPs delivered                 Consultants         April 01, 1994
* Draft RLAPs reviewed                  MLGRD/TSC           April 15, 1994
* World Bank review and
'No Objection'                        World Bank          May 01, 1994
* RLAPs finalized                       Consultants         June 01, 1994
X Formal ratification of the
RWAs by DAs                            DAS/MLGRD           July 01, 1994
7.    Preparation of Implementation
Manual                                  TSC/Ghana           June 01,1994
Resident Mission



-123-
Amu 13
Page  oft5
REPUBIJC OF GHANA
IAOAL GOVERNMOF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurenent Management
1.    Management of procurement operations will be undetaken by TSC, which played a
pivotal role in the Ara District Rehabilitation and Priority Works projects and has continued
as the key implementing agency of the Urban H project. TSC has accumulated the necessary
experience to manage procurement conts in accordance with Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. TSC would liaise with the DAs, GSC and other agencies. Capacity building of
DA personl in procurement and supervision will be developed by their participation in bid
evaluation and management of conactu. Table 1 shows the assigmuent of procurement
functions.
Table 1
lAal Government ftftDmnal roZedt
Assgsnment PocurPment Functions
Waste               Market       Rodains    Gds
mmS                 Rehab,
Packgn              GSCiTSC             TSC          TSC           GSCITSC
Techical Specs      scmTsc              TSC          TSC           GSCirSC
Bid Documents       TSCJIDA             TSCllDA      TSCIEPCI    GSCMCI
(Commercial)                                         IDA          IDA
Advr/ Sale          TSC                 TSC          TSC          TSC
Bid Evaluation      TSC/GSCIDA          TSCIDA       TSC/DA        TSC)TSCADA
Local Approval      TSCIGSCIDA          TSCIDA       TSCIDA       TSCIDAIGSC
Acronyms:
DA Distridct Assembly
EPC   E        ental Protection COUnc
GSC   Ghana Supply Commission
TSC   Technical Services Center
*     GSC will act as sub-contractor to TSC for aisace in the approval of
equipmentvehicles, tecmical specifications and customs operations.



-124-
Page 2 of 5
Prcweon Documentation
2.    1SC has agreed to make use of Bank sample documents for civil works,
prequaification, delivery of goods and use of consultas. Copies and diskettes of Bank
sample documents have been given to TSC. The use of standard documents shoud greatly
simplify approval of documents by the Bank for the proposed project. Preparation of techical
specifications wDI need to be handled by consulnts selected by TSC in accordance with bank
guidelines as thbis work Is too specilized for TSC to carry out in house. Other agencies,
direcdy or indity associated widh the project, were reviewed during apprais and found
generaly satisfactory for procurement activities, with the exception of the District Assemblies
(DAs), as this is their first  ence with Bank finaced operations. DAs will assist TSC
and consultants in bid evaluation and supervision of work and will thus gaim usefl direct
eperience in conOa and O&M management. In addition, DA staff wil receive TA under
the DA Capacity Building Componet under the project.
Prouemet Process Srmlining
3.    Following the Akuse m Country StratW  and Implementation Review (CSIR) on
procurement management, GO  on June 8, 1993 accepted Bank r          for
streamlining procuremt hdling. The basic principles of the new procedures are O) to place
reasonable time limits on eah major step in the procurement process following the receipt of
bids, and (U) to reduce the number of steps in the approval process. Accordingly, te time
limit for approval of bids for civil works has been fiLxed at 180 days (120 for LCB). The
Central Advisory Tender Board (CATB) would represent the final authority for approval of
award, with no further need of approval by the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet. The
Ghana Supply Commission (GSC) which is often a botteneck and cause of delay, wil no be
direcdy involved in the Fpocment of goods but will assist TSC in the review of technical
specifications and handling of imports. For consulting contracts, the streamlined procedures
require the MFEP to accept or reject consulCY agrem     submitted to it within two weeks
of receipt of the submision
Procrement Monitoring and Review
4.    During project supervision, Bank-financed works contrs above a threshold of US$
1 million will be subject to Bank's prior review procedures. Goods contracts or packages
above US$ 200,000 will be subject to prior review, covering about 80 % of the total value of
Bank-financed goods. The review process will cover about 80% of the total works contract
value procured and 100% of the ICB contracts. Selective post review of awarded contcs
below the thrsold levels wil be caTried out on about I in 4 works contracts and I in 8
goods contracts.
Procurement Implementation Schedule.
S.    Table 2 shows the detailed p eme  arrangement. Poem    activities will be
closely monitored against permamce indicatrs. A Procuree Implemtation Schedule
wfll be agreed with the GO0 for all project components to guide project implementation and



-125-                             MM 13
Page 3 of S
monioring. The schedule wi be revised periodically by key project units and agencies In
consultation with IDA.



if8j Se28st  p3    2tSS! 42 S :t$8   321 3gPp t'8   
i~ ~   ~~~i !          1Fff!X  11lli!*  IFX!ll  (F"t!1y XF iF
g~~ X                   V   V      V   V     V   V   V    
|                       |   a          1E  i;   | S | Ebt !         ~a  2   9
w_ 5
G   S      ; 8   "            ;     G S   ; 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
XAIi



-127-                                  AD.neazU
Page 5 of S
Tble
1.t Wait.MMMaqmmt.mViSah
BqupMuit& Spam                  1                4                 5.2                               5.22
2. b"Aiour3bws&ihg
A. DMa 1(ii*N gfaam                                                                                     0.40
VAI_                                             1                 037              00Se
1FmfImw&sfkmw.                  I                                          0.11
B. DAH .c1a.m                                                                                           0.26
Vda1                                                               0.10
ym*Aum & Nqupinmi               s                                          0.15    0.01
C. VA DhtxiiMmqpma                                                                                      0.14
Vadmd,6 Bsuwpsam& Ibb           2                2                 0.1     0.02    0.02
a. ToCoEmc.Savk.Cs0.13
Vqicm. pii"&1 _                 I                                  0.10                               S.22
3.DA R.vousM.                                                                <0.01                     (0.01
F. LWSI TA CoAudm                                                                                       0.02
Vdll 1A        M                                                                                       0.49
Ydbki                                                              a "7      
Caqs    1A                                                                                             0.201
0.  ubw                                                            0.1moi0v W
. advabudam DpiiialtbI3am                                                    U 
(uuph& W k                                                                 OIS a
VdM.hwSIk                        1                 5                0.5     0.16                       0.51
L  Town& Cmuy Pi DqOL                                                                                   0.16
Vd.Mm. B_uiu& liMb              1                1                 0.11    0.02  Q0S
-L 3SNMCCi                                                                                               0.02
L  SwvD <Q(OILNU                   2
TV. C_,sa"wu
A. MuuIoduIighwbg                                                                                       0.65
B. Fmah1,nauq                                                                                           0.6
C.Dbblotgbmlagothulmu                                                                                   0.72
D. SiVoaIfor TSC                                                                                        0.59
I. Buloyw  Im DAQm6                                                                                     0.01
F. C.oodbUO.uITA                                                                                        0.1
IL Paagswmhwm- 1i Vf.'. di                                                                             0.17
L TomN  Ct_D i         IaIdqs.                                                                          0.19
H.  Joh&g (it DI.                                                                                       0.54
Fat*amI..nd                                                                                             1.60



-128-
REPUBLIC OF GRANA                     Annex LA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             Pag. 1 Of 2
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USS Million)
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT    CUMUL. DISBURS.   STANDARD DISB. PROFILE
AT END OF QUARTER   AT END OF QUARTER        AFRICA        GHANA
.________   _________   ________   URBAN      ALL   SECTORS
__ ________ _ ~  L..  (USS M$       J%1      (USS M)      J)J
FY 1995
Quarter 1     1            0.39     1           0.39
Quarter 2      1           0.39     2           0.77                _  __
Quarter 3     1            0.39      3          1.16       . 
Quarter 4     4            1.54     7           2.70            6            6
FY 1996
Quarter 1     3            1.16     10          3.85
Quarter 2     3            1.16     13          5.01           10            10
Quarter 3     3            1.16     16          6.16
Quarter 4     3            1.16     19          7.32           14           18
FY 1997
Quarter 1     S            1.93     24          9.24     .
Quarter 2     5            1.93     29         11.17           22           26
Quarter 3     5            1.93     34         13.09 __-
Quarter 4     5            1.93     39         15.02           30           26
FY 1998
Quarter 1     6            2.31     45         17.33          .
Quarter 2     6            2.31     51         19.64           38           38
Quarter 3     6            2.31     57         21.95
Quarter 4     6   _        2.31     63-        24.26           50           50
FY 1999
Quarter 1     4            1.54     67         25.80
Quarter 2     4            1.54     71         27.34           58           so
Quarter 3     4            1.54     75         28.88 
Quarter 4     3            1.16     78         30.04           66           70
FY 2000
Quarter 1     3            1.16     81         31.19
Quarter 2     3            1.16     84         32.35           78           78
Quarter 3     3            1.16     87         33.50
Quarter 4     3            1.16     90         34.66           82           86
FTY 2001
Quarter 1     3            1.16     93         35.81 _    _       _
Quarter 2     3            1.16     96         36.97           90           90
Quarter 3     2            0.77     98         37.74
Quarter 4     2            0.77    100         38.51           94           98
FY 2002
Quarter 1
Quarter 2                                         __           98          100
Quarter 3                      _                              lQ0
Quarter  4    _ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         100   _ _ _ _ _ _
Total Project - $55.51 million, asumied to become effective on July 1, 1994.
IDA portion   - $38.51 million (69%) of the Project.



04
%?0
C"4
r(weA leos!; 0o puG s99e!Pu! PO@d)l
sjo4mS IIV uht    ...            wqjn ni        -             qsla peww.jq
ZOOZ A  LOOZ A OOOZ A   66 A    86 A    L6 A    96 AA    6 9M
I             I              I              I              II-%
..............  ............................................................................................ .....................    % O a
..........  ..........              ...       .. .....I.....  ......   ...........  ......I........   .....    % 0 8
(%   w JsmeuqsC1 9Ap,qnwno
J032S IIV IRuIR40 V ueqjn som" piepueis
snsjGAOelboJd ZuGwasJnq$10 P93lU8
Za@.tJd tuawdoleAxa zuewumaot isoo1
Gu840 ;o oilqndeEl



-130-
Page 1 of 14
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
SUMMARY
Technical assistance in the Local Government Development Project is provided for lntitutional
Strengthening and Capacity Building (see Annex 9). TA is divided into two components: (1)
improving the management capacity of District Assemblies and (2) strengthening the capacity of
central government to assist DAs. The specific TA under the two categories consists of the following
(unless Indicated, TA is provided through national consultants only):
Direct TA for 11 District Assemblies
1.    Municipal Engineering Support (160 person-months).
2.    Financial Management Support (160 person-months).
3.    District Planning and Implementation Support (160 person-months).
TA for Cen    Government Assistance to DAs
1.    Technical Services Center of MW'H (72 person-months).
2.    Policy Review of DA Revenue Mobilization, MLGRD (12 person-months).
3.    Coordinatin of Technical Assistance, MLGRD (36 person-months).
4.    Engineering Supervision by KfW of co-fimanced market and motor park component
(itrnational consultant, 30 person-months short-term).
5.    Property Revaluation, Land Valuation Board (12 person-months).
6.    Land Use Planning and Devewupment Guidance, Town and Country Planning Department,
MLGRD (22 person-months).
7.    Mappin5, Survey Department (international consultants, 9 person-months short-term).
DETAILED l)ESCRIPION
1.    MUicipW EMnk lni         Suppor to Districts
1.1 SMn of
Technical assistance, through national consultants, will be provided to the District Assemblies that are
participating in the LGDP for support and capacity-building in two principal areas of municipal
engineering: (a) supervision of civii works and (b) operation and mainea. The consultants wfll



-131-
Page 2 of 14
provide assistance and advice to District Assemblies' technical staff specifically In relation to civil
works and services financed by LGDP (i.e. roads and drains, markets, motor parks, solid waste
systems, and liquid waste facilities). Consultants' advice and assistance will Include the following:
SupervisIon of Civil Works
1.    Day-to-day contract administration.
2.    Quality and quantity control.
3.    Certification of contractors' claims.
4.    Interpretation of designs and bid documents.
S.    Tesig of materials.
6.    Checking of contractors' setting out of works.
7.    Opening up landfills and trenching grounds for waste management.
Operaton and Maintenance
S.    Based on the mantenance plans including quarterly maintenance schedules prepared by the
design consultants, assisting DAs in preparing terms of reference for and hiring of contractors
to carry out the maintenance work.
9.    Establishing collection routings and deployment of waste management vehicles and equipment.
10.   Quality and quantity control.
11.   Certification of contractors' claims.
12.   Operating the maintenance account(s).
Ot0er
13.   Identifying training needs for District staff in support of the training program of LGDP.
14.   Compiling quarterly monitoring data on physical implementation at the District level.
15.   CollecIng data for performance monitoring of operation and maintenance.
1.2   Supe%rision and Liaison
For matters rating to their day-to-day technical work, the mnicipal engineering consltants will be
supevised by the Technical Services Center. For matters relating to the overall local government
policies and the coordination of their work with that of the other technical assistance teams dealing
with finance and management, the municipal engineering consultats will report to the Technical



-132-
Amex 1S
Page 3 of 14
Assistance Coordinator (see Section 6 below). The consultats will work directly with couepart
staff of the District Assemblies.
1.3    Ofices of Field Consultants
The technical assistance for the Districts will be provided by four national consultants grouped on a
regional basis as follows (asterisk denotes where the consultant will be based):
1.    Upper region: Bawku, Bolgatanga*, Wa.
2.    Brong Ahafo region: Sunyani* Techiman
3.    Volta and Eastern regions: Keta/Anloga, Ho, Kofordua*.
4.    Cetal region: Cape Coast*, Elmina, Swedr.
The Field-based consultants in Municipal Engineering, Financial Management (Section 2 below) and
Planning and Implementaion (Section 3 below) will have separate rented office accommodations.
This is necessitated by the fact that the consutants will be serving two or three Districts, making it
difficult to impose on one District the obligation of provlidg office space. A total of US$120,000 is
allocated for office acco ions in the four regions over the three year TA period.
1.4 Level of Effort. Deployment. and Cost
Tme four consultants will be contracted for three years (36 months) each. They will be epected to
divide their time equally between the towns under their jurWisdiction.
In addition to the four main engineerng consultants, provision is made for 16 person-months of
specialist assistance to be drawn upon as needed. This may inchlde, but not be lUited to, operaton
of solid waste landfills, operation of liquid waste trenching grounds, operation of KVIP latrnes or
other types of santion facilities, maienance requirements for specific types of equipment,
conducting on-site traning, etc.
Each District Engineer's office will be provided with one four-wheel drive vehicle as well as an
allocation for furnure, operating costs (fuel, office supplies, communications, etc.), and
photocopying/printng (for manuals, etc.). These Inputs are exclusively for use on the taks listed in
the scope of work above.



-133-
Annex IS
Page 4 of 14
Cost $tXUS
National consultants: 160 p/m 0
US$3,500                  560,000
Double-cab pickups: 15 @US25,000  375,000
(11 for DAs + 4 for consultants)
Furniture & other small equipment
QUS$10,000 per District    110,000
Operational support              36,000
Reproductionlprining              5 000
TOTAL                         1,086,000
2.    FSnandal Manamt Suowrt to Districts
2.1   SeoeofWA ork
Technici assistance, through local consultants, will be provided to the District Assemblies that are
participoating in the LGDP for support and capacity-building in three areas of financial management:
(a) budgeting and accounting systems, (b) revenue Improvement action plans, and (c) property rates
billing and collecion. Consultant' advice and assistance will include the following:
Budgeting and Accounting Systems
The objectives of introducing Impioved budgedng and accounting systems in the Districts are: (a) to
enhance accountability for the efficient and effective use of resources dtrough activity-based
budgeting, (b) to provide a basis for effective monitoring of actual vs. projected revenues and
expenditures, (c) to permit assessment of the cost-effectiveness of activities, and (d) where feasible, to
improve the efficiency of budget preparation and reporting through computeatio.
1.    Assess work done under the Urban II project on the development, implantation, and
utilization of improved budgeting and accounting systems for local government. Evaluate
suitability of the improved systems, formats, and procedures developed under Urban 11 for
application to the LGDP DAs.
2.    Based to the extnt possible on the work done under the Urban 11 project, develop an activity-
based budget and accounting system that can be Implanted In the Districts.
3.    Assess capability of LODP District Assemblies to utilize computer-based budget and
accounting systems.
4.    Prepare a work plan and schedule for implandng the new systems in the DAs.



-134-
Page S of 14
S.    To the extent possible, adapt and modify software and manal developed under Urban U for
computer-bsd utilization of thie improved budget and accounting system  If necessary,
create new softwre and manals.
6.    Develop formats, procedures, and manuals for manu  utilization of the improved system.
7.    Implant the improved budget and accounting system in the 1I DAs, either computer-based or
manual, as appropriate. Conduct on-thejob taining and training sessions.
8.    Assist DA staff and officias to use the new budget and reporting systems effectively.
Revenue Improvemnt Action Plans
9.    Assist in dissemina    undersding of RIAPs to all DA officials and staff through meetings,
workshops, and other means.
10.   Provide technical advice on procedur  for increasing revues from the various priority
sources identified In the RIAPs.
11. Assist in assessing which revenue sources are cost-effective and which are not, with the
objective of focusing effrt on collection of a limited number of productve taxes and fees.
12.   Assist in designing and implementing awareness campaigns among the populton.
13.   Assist DAs to produce qurery reporting of monitorig data on revenue collection and
expendiure perfomance for MLGRD.
Property Iates BiMng and Colection
14.   Evaluate existing systems and procedures used by the 11 LGDP DAs for billing and collecdon
of property rates.
15.   Develop proposals for improvig these systems and procedures.
16.   Review the prposed  p vem    with Land Valuation Board and DAs. Also assess the
capacity of DAs to ffectively use a computerized billing and collection system for property
rates.
17.   Finalize the impoved systems and procedures; prepue mamnuas.
18.   Develop software and mauas for computeized billing and colecdon, using LVB
computeried ddat as the bae.
19.   Assist DAs in adopting the new systems and procedures, either manual or computaized as
appropriate; coor t training; assst in implemenaion.
20.   Asses capacity of DAs to use a computer module for propety rate revenue recording and
arrears follow-up; if faible, develop software ad implant in selected DAs.



-135-
Ann   S
Page 6 ot 14
2.2    Xeniio ad Li
Tho fina       managem    consultants wM repor to the Local Goverment Support Unit in MLUG .
They will be coordint  by the Technical Assistan  Advisr (see Section 6 below). Ihe consultants
will work directly with counterpart staff of the District Assemblies.
2.3 Level of Effort. Deployment and Cost
The technical assistance for District financal management will be structured in a similar fashion as
that for municipal engineerig. The bulk of the assiance will be provided by four national
consultants grped on the same regional basis (see secton I above). Ihe four consoltants will be
contracted for the years (36 monts) each. Ihey wil be expected to divide their time equally
between the towns under their jurisdiction. They wIll occupy offices as per Section 1.3 above.
In addition to the four financial consultants, provision is made for 16 pern-months of specialist
assistance to be drawn upon as needed. This may include, but not be limited to, coputerizaion of
budgeting and accounting systms and computrizton of property rate billing and collection systems.
Those District Assemblies judged capable of using computers for budgetng and accounting will be
provided a hardware package (mncluding a PC, printer, and batty pack). Each District will receive
an allocation for furniture, operating costs (office supplies, communications, etc.), and
photocopying/printing (for manuals, etc.). These inputs are exclusively for use on the tasks listed in
the scope of work above.
Cost Item                         USS
National consultants: 160 p/m 0
US$3,500                  560,000
Vehicles: 4 for consultants
@US25,000                 100,000
Computer packages: 4 0 US$4,000   44,000
Fumniture & other small equipment
*US$10,000 per District    110,000
Operational support              36,000
Photocopying/printing            10000
TOTAL                           860,000



-136-
Page 7 of 14
3.    Dishict Eao*g and IMqh=Wflaton Suppor
3.1   Sg  ofDWoIfk
The objective of this comnponent is to improve the capacity of District Assemblies in the 1I LGDP
towns to planand manage their avalable financial, human, and material mources n an ltgrated
m er.
The mechanism for this wil be the provision of technical assistance to the DAs for the peromance
of tmain ficions: (a) the preparadon of annual implementaton action plans for all LGDP
components, (b) the use of the new budgetiag and accouning systems to be installed in eac DA (seo
Secton II above) as a management tool, and (c) the reorganiaon of the Diticts in confrmit with
the new Local Goverment Law (in preparation), the Civil Service Act (1993), and the priority
requirements of each District. Consultants will assist and advise DA officis and staff to cary out
these fimctions in such a way as to develop the capacity to integrae the work of managers and staff of
the District and dhose of the decentralized agenies that are also involved in the project Illy, the
focu wil be on mal imple       on action plans and simple physica and budget monitorig. As
the new budget and accounting systm  are Insted, and as the DAs gain experience with the LODP,
the scope of the planning process can be gradually expanded.
Specific tasks to be carried out by the consultants include the following:
1.    Assist in the development of formats for annmal implementation plans.
2.     rgnIz and conduct action planng workshops with DA officials and staff (cludig
decentralized agencies) to develop the amnual plans. (For ths purpose the Distct
agemen consulta  wi receive tran      in process consulting and faciti  lls).
3.    In coordinao   with the municipal egeing and finance consultan  (see Sections I and IU
above), develop procedures and guidelines for route quartedy and major yearly
manag       emetion reviews of the actual progress of Implemetation, using the
physical monitorig datand the quarterly budget and ac ng reports.
4.    Conduct training sessions for managers and decision-makers at al levels in the DA on how to
carry out the quanrtey and yearly mana-gemen-t/implementatio  eews in ways tha are most
beneficial to them.
S.    Asist District officials to prepare Distict r on  plans for submission to and approvat
by District Assemblies.
6.    Assist in the preparation of annual District trainig plans.
3.2      S     ii  and
Tbe Distict maageme  consultants will report to the Local Government Support Unit in MLORD.
y  will be coordinated by the Tenil Assisnc Advis  (see Section S below). The conta
wil work directly with couterpart staff of the District Assemblies.



-137-
ADnm is
Page 8 of 14
3.3   Level of yffrt. Deployment, and Cost
The technical assistance for District management will be structured in a similar fashion as that for
municipal engineering and financial management. The bulk of the assistance will be provided by four
national consultants grouped on the same regional basis (see Section 1 above). Ihe four consutans
will be contracted for three years (36 months) each. They wil be expected to divide their time
equally between the towns under their jurisdiction. They will occupy offices as per Section 1.3
above.
Provision is also made for 16 person-monhs of specialist assistance to be drawn upon as needed.
This may include, but not be limited to, such topics as legal issues, personal system, or computer
applications.
Each regionally-based consultant will be provided with a vehicle, a computer (PC, printer, and battery
pack), an allocation for furniture, operang costs (office supplies,  ions, etc.), and
photocopying/printing (for manuals, etc.). These inputs are exclusively for use on the tasks listed in
the scope of work above.
costlm                              US$
National consultants: 160 p/m a
US$3,500                  560,000
Vehicles: 4 for consultants
@US$25,000                100,000
Computer packages: 4 @ US$4,000   16,000
Friture & other small equipment
@US$5,000 per consultant    20,000
Operational support              36,000
Photocopying/priting              5.
TOTAL                            737,000
4.    Support for Technical Services Center MSC)
4.1   Scpe of Work
In order to carry out its increased responsibilities under the Local Government Development Project,
the Technical Services Center (TSC) will require consultancy support. Two long-term national
consultants will be provided, a financial controller/accountant and a computer specialist. Their duties
are follows:



-138-
Page 9 of 14
Inanclal Controller
Requirement: Qualified accountant.
1.    Keep records of all funds received and expenditures of the LGDP, in accordance with TSC's
established financial accounting and reporting systems.
2.    Advise the District Assembly finance staff and financial management consultants (see Section
2 above) on establishing consistent financial reporting formats.
3.    Consolidate the quarterly project accounts from data submitted by Districts.
4.    Prepare quarterly financial reports.
S.    Produce yearly financial statements.
Computer Specialist
Provide advice and assistance to TSC on software applications for accounting, reporting, monitoring,
data bases, graphics, and other fumctions.
4.2   Sueviion. Level of Effort. and Cost
The consultants will report to the Director of TSC.
Cost Item                         US$
Two (2) national consultants
@ 36 months each a
US$3,500 per month        252,000
Four (4) double-cab pickups
@US$25,000                100,000
Operational support              330,000
Equipment and materials          50.0
TOTAL                            732,000
5.    Ply Reew of District Assembly Revenue Mobilization
5.1   Scope of Work (see Annex 5. Appendix 4)
Ihe pupose of this component is to assist the Govemment of Ghana to review the current allocation
of revenue sources between central government and District Assemblies with the view to revising the
current allocation of revenue-raising authority consistent with established decentraization policy.



-139-                              An= is
Page 10 of 14
Presently, local govermments act largely as agents of central government rather than exercising
significant discretionary authority as envisaged in Law 207 and the new Constitution. One of the
ways in which this inconsistency is manifested is in the current central-local allocation of authority
over revenue collection and utilization. The Government is aware that this situation bampers its
decentralization policy objectives and is drafting changes in its financial management systems which
are expected to achieve more consistency.
LGDP cannot support a comprehensive program in this area, but it will provide technical assistance
for a number of specific activities which are intended to help sustain the project's benefits. In
addition, it is expected that these interventions will contribute to improved local government
performance in most sectors.
MLGRD would collaborate with the Finance Conunittee of Parliament to create a Working Group on
the Allocation of Revenue Sources. Technical assistance will be provided to the Working Group for
the following:
1.    Conduct a comprehensive review of the current allocation of revenue sources among levels of
government.
2.    Conduct one or more action planning workshops to identify key issues, problems and
alternative solutions.
3.    Analyze the financial and institutional impacts of the various alternatives proposed.
4.    Conduct a further workshop to assess the alternative impacts and take decisions on
recommended allocations of authority for revenue-raising and utilization.
S.    Submit recommendations to the appropriate authorities.
5.2   Level of Effort and Cost
Cog Item
National consultants: 12 p/m @
US$3,500                   42,000
Workshops                         6,000
Computer package for consultants  4,000
Field visits, other operational
support                    4.000
TOTAL                            56,000



-140-
AmxS
Page 11 of 14
6.    Coordinaon or Technical Asistan
6.1   Sce of WQrk
Technical assistance to the Districts in financial management (Section 2 above) and planning (Section
3 above) will be supervised by MLGRD through its Local Government Support Unit (LGSU).
Technical assistance in municipal engineering (Section I above) will be supervised by the Technical
Services Center. To ensure that the overall capacity-building effort is managed in a coordinated way,
the LGSU will receive support from one national consultant, who will be the project's Technical
Assistance Adviser (TAA). ITis person will be attached to LOSU on a full-time basis for 36 monts.
His/her functions will be:
1.    Serve as Team Leader for the overall technical assistance program of LGDP.
2.    Prepare anusal work plans for coordination of the overall technical assistance program.
3.    Assist in implementing the quarterly monitoring and reporting system for LGDP.
4.    Ensure that the consultants working with the DAs are provided with the necessary, up-to-date
guidance on Government policies and regulations relevant to their fields of activity.
5.    Provide technical advice, within his/her areas of competence, to guide the various technical
assistance efforts.
6.    Alert MLGRD, TSC, and the World Bank to issues and problems requiring attention, and
assist in follow-up.
In addition to the overall supervision provided by the TAA, day-to-day coordination of each of the
four field teams (see Sections 1,2 and 3 above) will be achieved through the designation of one of the
three field advisers on each team as Field Team Leader (FMl). All field team members will report to
their FTL, and the FTLs will report to the TAA.
6.2   Level of Effort and Cost
Cost ItmUS$S
One nadonal consultant for
36 p/m @ US$3,500         126,000
One vehile for coordination unit  20,000
One computer package              4,000
Operating costs                  20.)
TOTAL                            170,000



-141-
Page 12 of 14
7.  ad^yl, in  - yV
7.1    S=e,Qf Work
KfW, which is providing parallel co-financing for the markets and motor parks under LGDP, will
xd  ffmce an intermittn expat  engineering consultant who will assist in the periodic
supervision of the project. Ibis consultant will ary out his work by participating as a member of
the World Bank's regular supervision missions.
7.2   Lu
One expatiate consutant for 30 months; total US$600,000 (covered by KfW co-financing).
8.    P    .opEryRaluation - Land Valuation Board
.1 sDeatWQrk
See Annex 6 for description of LVB revuation component.
lho Land Valuation Board's exsting computer hardware and software are obsolete and worn out.
LVB reqrs new equipment and software in order to perfom more efficiently and to handle the
additional demands of producing new valuation lists for the LODP towns. In this connection, LVB
will requie technical assistance for:
1.    Ihe selection of suitable computer hardware.
2.    Ihe development of new data base software for valuation lists.
3.    Ihe development of a new computer program to calculate a flrst pass valuation of each
ptoperty based on survey and classification data and approved scales. This would reduce
much of the time-consuming manua effort of calculating valuations and reduce the scope for
error. The computer-generated valuations would still be reviewed by the valuation staff.
4.    The development of a software module to enable annual updating-in the years between
wholesale revaluations-of rating assessments contained in the valuation lists by reference to
an approved building cost or other index.



-142-
Annex 15
Page 13 of 14
8.2   Leve of Eft and Cost
cot I                             US$
One national consultant for 12
Months  US$3,500           42,000
Trnn                              16,000
Vehicles: 11 DC Pickups and
66 motorcycles                 348,000
Computers (2 PC packages)        10,000
Materals                         152,000
Operaon  support                 110
TOTAL                            678,000
9.    Town and Coi nlPU flananag.    aMrnt
9.1   am Of WoS*
See Ane 7 for descripdon of Land Use Planning and Development Guidance component.
9.2   Level of Effort and Cost
st item                           US$
National consultants             77,000
Traing                           70,000
Vehicles: 6 DC pickups and
6 motorcycles                   105,000
Computers: 6 PC packages         24,000
Other equipment and supplies     30,000
Surveying and demarcation
TOTAL                            336,000



-143-
Annex 15
Page 14 of 14
10.   MapnES -  Survey De   Ient
10.1  ScogefWork
See Annex 8 for description of the Mapping Component to be carried out through the Survey
Departmeat.
10.2  az
Cost utm-s$
Mapping Services                1,176,500
Equipment and supplies           260,000
Technical Assistace (uiternational
for 9 person-months)           -,fiQ
TOTAL                           1,549,000



-144-                                     Annex 16
RUUBLIC Or agARA               Page 1 of 15
LO=  GOVEUNEN  OEVELOMmP VROJECT
?ROJUCT COST SUMMARY
(US$)
Ba-e Cost  uas Mlliloal
1994   1995      1996     1997     1998     1999    Tota
I *INESTUTCOSTS
a. sUNY
1. ROADS S DRAINAGE                     0.11     0.85     0.96     0.21     0.00     0.00   2.14
2. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS                0.04     0.31     0.33     0.08     0.00     0.00   0.79
3. WASTZ NANLAAIUNT                     0.03     0.21     0.54     0.17     0.03     0.00   0.99
4. DESIGN & SUPRZVIS?OR                 0.01     0.05     0.05     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.13
Sub-Totals  0.19      1.42     1.90    0.48      0.04     0.00   4.03
S. n0
1. ROAW M   DRAIXAGE                   0.07      0.52     0.59     0.13     0.00     0.00   1.31
2. MARKETS & LORRY PARES                0.02     0.15     0.17     0.04     0.00     0.00   0.37
3. NsA i AU'z  MtW                      0.04     0.23     0.61     0.12     0.01     0.00   1.01
4. DZSIGQ  A SUPERVISION                0.01     0.03     0.03     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.09
Sub-Totals  0.13      0.93     1.39     0.30     0.02     0.00   2.78
C. Ea/AOA
1. ROADS 5 DRAINAGE                    0.05      0.43     0.48    0.11      0.00     0.00   1.07
2. MARKETS & LORRY PARMS                0.01     0.05     0.05     0.01     0.00     0.00   0.12
3. UASs 'EaNAGEHENT                     0.07     0.41     1.07     0.56     0.14     0.00   2.24
4. DZSIGN & SUPZRVISION                 0.01     0.04     0.04     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.11
Sub-Totals  0.14      0.92     1.65     0.69     0.15     0.00   3.55
D. ROVORXIO
1a  ROADS I DRAINAGE                   0.05      0.41     0.46    0.10      0.00     0.00   1.01
2. MARRBS8 & LORRY PARRS                0.05     0.39     0.44     0.10     0.00     0.00   0.98
3.* ASTZ MASUS                          0.07     0.34     0.88     0.25     0.04     0.00   1.58
4. DESIGN  8UPERVISION                 0.01     0.04     0.04     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.12
Sub-Total:  0.18      1.17     1.82     0.46     0.05     0.00   3.69
N. SWE8U
1. ROADS I DRAINAEX                     0.06     0.50     0.56     0.12     0.00     0.00   1.24
2. MARRETS & LORRY PARRS                0.01     0.09     0.10     0.02     0.00     0.00   0.23
3. NASTE MANAGIENT                      0.02     0.14     0.37     0.13     0.02     0.00   0.67
4. DESIGN & SUPERVISION                 0.01    0.03      0.03     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.07
Sub-Totals  0.10    0.75       1.05     0.28     0.03     0.00   2.21
1. Wl
1. ROADS & DRAXNaGE                    0.04      0.30     0.33     0.07     0.00     0.00   0.74
2. MARRETS & LORRY PARKS                0.01     0.11     0.13     0.03     0.00     0.00   0.28
3. MASTS MAUAGUIENT                     0.03     0.20     0.51     0.20     0.04     0.00   0.98
4. DESIGN & SUPERVlSXON                 0.01     0.02     0.02    0.01      0.01     0.00   0.07
Sub-Totals  0.09      0.63     1.00     0.31     0.05     0.00   2.06
a. CAPE cOAaT
1. ROADS & DRAINAGE                     0.04     0.30     0.33     0.07     0.00     0.00   0.74
2. MARKETS & LRRY PARKS                 0.02     0.18     0.20     0.04     0.00      0.00   0.44
3. WASTE 1IhAMMI                        0.01     0.25     0.66     0.31     0.07     0.00   1.30
4. DESIN & SUPERVXSION                  0.01     0.03     0.03     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.08
Sub-Totals  0.08      0.75     1.21     0.43     0.08     0.00   2.56
B. ELKIN
1. ROADS & DRAINAGE                     0.04     0.33     0.37     0.08     0.00     0.00   0.83
2. MARKETS  LORRY PARKS                0.02     0.13     0.14     0.03     0.00      0.00   0.32
3. MOSTE  AUSA NIEN                     0.01     0.15     0.40     0.20     0.05      0.00   0.82
4. DESIGN & SUPERVISIO                  0.01     0.02     0.02     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.07
Sub-Totals  0.07      0.63     0.94     0.32     0.06     0.00   2.03
I.  YOG2AG
1. ROADS & DRAINAGE                     0.10     0.80     0.90     0.20     0.00     0.00   2.01
2. MARKETS G LORRY PARKS                C.03     0.22     0.24     0.05     0.00     0.00   0.54
3.  ASTR EnAieF2eT                      0 03     0.26     0.67    0.24      0.05     0.00   1.25
4. DESIGN & SUPWERVIk ON                0 91    0.04      0.04     0.01     0.01     0.00   0.13
Sub-Total:  0.17      1.32     1.86    0.51      0.06     0.00   3.92
J. UAUDV
1* ROAMS   DRAINAGE                    0.14      1.13     1.27    0.28      0.00     0.00   2.82
2. MAPlETS & LORRY PARRS                0.02     0.15     0.17     0.04     0.00     0.00   0.38
3. WASTE MANAGUI:EU                     0.03     0.15     0.39     0.14     0.03     0.00   0.74
4. DESIGN & SUPRVIXSION                 0.01     0.05     0.05     0.01    0.01      0.00   0.13
Sub-Total:  0.20      1.48     1.88     0.48     0.04     0.00   4.08



-145-                                 Annex 16
Page 2 of 15
RZEUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJBCT
PROJZECT COST SUMMARY
(U8S$)
Base Cose fUSS Kmllion)
1994    1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    Total
1. ROADS C DRAINAGE                     0.08     0.65     0.73     0.16     0.00      0.00   1.62
2. MAUTS & LORRY PARKS                  0.11     0.85     0.96     0.21     0.00      0.00   2.13
3. WASTE MANAGEBMET                     0.02     0.17     0.45     0.20     0.05      0.00   0.88
4. DESIGN & SUPERVISION                 0.02     0.05     0.05     0.02      0.02     0.00   0.15
Sub-Totals  0.22      1.73     2.19     0.59     0.06     0.00   4.78
A. INST. STRzEEBTSZEIN
1. MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVT.              0.07     0.0S     0.05     0.00     0.00      0.00   0.16
2. TRAINING (11 DISTRICTS)              0.07     0.15     0.12     0.12      0.0S     0.00   0.51
3. TOWN & COUNTRY PLAIMING              0.17     0.06     0.06     0.05      0.00     0.00   0.33
4. TSCHNICAL A88s. DUA                  1.38     0.63     0.63     0.02      0.02     0.02    2.70
5. SURVEY DEPARTMNET (MLNR)             1.47     0.04     0.04     0.00      0.00     0.00    1.55
6. TECH. SERVICES CENTRE (MWE)          0.28     0.21     0.21     0.00     0.00      0.00    0.70
7. LAND VALUATION BOARD                 0.45     0.08     0.07     0.06     0.00      0.00    0.66
S. POLSCY REV.(VA REVENUE KOBIL)        0.02     0.03     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   0.05
9. ENO. SUPERVISION (KEw)               0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12      0.00   0.60
10.FUTURZ PROJBCT PREPERATION           0.14     0.17     0.17     0.00     0.00      0.00   0.48
Sub-Totals  4.17      1.53     1.46     0.37     0.20     0.02    7.74
TOTAL INVESTMZNT COSTS.             5.73    13.27   18.36       5.21     0.84     0.02  43.42
1.1R,CURREET COSTS
A. OPERATION & MAINTE ZANCE             0.00     0.04     0.37     0.85      0.99     1.07   3.32
B. PERSONAL SERVICZS CONTRACTS          0.38     0.38     0.38     0.38      0.38     0.00   1.89
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS.              0.38     0.42      0.75     1.23     1.37     1.07   5.21
TOTAL DAOSELY    Costs              6.11    13.69    19.11      6.44     2.20     1.10  48.64
Physical Coutingoectes              0.24      1.08     1.36     0.52     0.17     0.11   3.48
Price Contingencies                 0.09     0.63      1.46     0.71     0.31     0.20   3,40
TOTSA  PROJZCT COSTS                6.44    15.39   21.93       7.67     2.68     1.40  S5.51



-146-                                               Antex  16
Page 3 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL OUVERNMENT DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Table 1. SUMYANI
Detafled Coet Table
Cedi
ease Costs in USS
a n                                 --- - - - - - -- - -
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
,.................................................
1. iNVESTMENT COSTS
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Mgmt. Measures     0.002  0.020  0.022 0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Rehab. of RdB. C Drain St 0.104  0.833  0.938 0.208  0.000  0.000  2.084
Sub-Total                   0.107 0.853 0.960  0.213  0.000  0.000 2.133
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Tolets                  0.011  0.092  0.103  0.023 0.000 0.000  0.229
- Pbtlic Standpipes        0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.001
- Drainag                  0.001  0.008  0.009  0.002 0.000 0.000  0.020
* Povfie  of Market       0.011  0.091  0.102  0.023  0.000  0.000  0.227
- Serfty Lights            0.002  0.012  0.014  0.003  0.000  0.000  0.031
- Shouer Blocks            0.002  0.014 0.016  0.003  0.000 0.000 0.035
- LOrry Park/Exist. Nkt.  0.001  0.009  0.011  0.002 0.000  0.000  0.024
- Earthwork                0.008  0.064 0.072  0.016 0.000  0.000  0.159
- AceSS Rd. to L. Parks   0.003  0.024  0.027  0.006 0.000  0.000 0.059
......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ...... ......... ..... ............
Sub-TOtal                   0.039  0.314  0.353  0.079  0.000  0.000  0.785
C. S0LID MASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Landfill Site Dev.       0.000  0.013  0.035  0.031  0.009  0.000  0.087
- Clearing Existing Heap  0.000  0.002  0.007  0.006  0.002  0.000  0.016
- Concrete Pads for Skip  0.000  0.002  0.006  0.005  0.001  0.000  0.014
Vehicles & Equipment       0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000
SkiP Vehicle              0.000  0.040  0.104  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.160
= On Containers           0.000  0.010  0.026  0.004 0.000  0.000  0.040
= Coered Containers        0.000  0.001  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.002
Landfill Equip.(B/Doz)   0.000 0.054  0.141  0.022  0.000  0.000 0.218
Land Acquisition           0.020 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.020
,.... ...... W..... ....... .... ....... ...... ...... .... ......... ......
Sub-Total                   0.020  0.123 0.320  0.083 0.012 0.000  0.558
0. LIQUID VASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition           0.007  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.007
Vehicles                   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Cesopit Emptier          0.000  0.040 0.104  0.016  0.000 0.000 0.160
Credit Scheme for Toilets 0.000 0.011  0.029 0.026  0.007  0.000  0.074
Civfl tworks               0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000
- Exten. of Water (Site)   0.000  0.001  0.002  0.001  0.000 0.000 0.004
- Const. of Add. Toilets   0.000  0.010  0.026 0.023  0.007 0.000  0.066
- Renovtion of Toilets    0.000  0.007 0.018 0.016  0.005  0.000  0.045
..... ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ............. ......... .........
Sub-Total                   0.007 0.068  0.179  0.082  0.019  0.000  0.355
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MGWT.
- Vehicles & Equipment    0.000 0.017  0.045 0.007  0.000 0.000  0.069
F. DESIGN 8 SUPERVISION         0.013  0.046  0.046 0.013  0.013  0.000  0.132
....  ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............ .........
Total IMNSTMENT COSTS              0.186  1.421  1.904 0.477 0.044 0.000  4.032
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. OPERATIONAL & NAINT. (3%)   0.000  0.005  0.045  0.099  0.112  0.124  0.385
S. PERSONAL SERV. CONTRACT      0.034 0.034 0.034  0.034  0.034  0.000 0.172
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ...... ......... ..... ............
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.034  0.039 0.079  0.133  0.147 0.124  0.557
a    #=a -------W=am=   n_w 
Total                           0.220  1.461  1.983 0.610 0.190 0.124  4.589
Values saled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:5S



Annex  16
-147-                                                   Page 4 of 15
REPUBLIC OF OHANA
LOCAL OVERNMENT DEVELOPNMET PROJECT
Table 2. HO
Detailed Cost Table
Cedi
Base Costs in USS
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
......... .................. _w..  .........
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic most. measures     0.002  0.020  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Rehab. of Rds. & Drain St 0.063  0.503  0.566  0.126  0.000  0.000  1.258
..... ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ........ .................. ...
Sub-Total                   0.065  0.523  0.588 0.131  0.000 0.000  1.307
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
Rehab. of Structure        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Toilets                  0.005  0.039 0.044  0.010  0.000  0.000  0.098
Paving Nkts/L.Parks      0.009 0.07Q 0.079  0.018  0.000  0.000 0.175
- Security Lights          0.000 0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000 0.000 0.008
- Standpipe                0.000  0.001  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.003
- Shower Blocks            0.001  0.006 0.006  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.014
UrinaU/Toilet (L.Park)  0.002  0.013  0.015  0.003  0.000 0.000  0.033
= Dralnage                 0.002  0.015 0.017  0.004  0.000  0.000  0.037
....  ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ............. ..... ............
8th-Total                   0.018  0.147 0.166 0.037  0.000 0.000 0.368
C. LIWID WASTE MANAGEM
Land Acquisition           0.007 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.007
Vehicles & Equipmnt        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Cesspit Eaptier          0.000  0.040 0.104  0.016  0.000 0.000 0.160
Credift Schm  for Toilets 0.000  0.041  0.106 0.016  0.000 0.000 0.164
Civil Works                0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Exten. of Water (Site)   0.000  0.001  0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.007
- Renovation of TolLets    0.000  0.005  0.014  0.012  0.003  0.000  0.034
SuFb-Total                  0.0.7 0.    0        0.047 0.004  0.000  0.372
-. SOLID WASTE NANAGEMET
Civil Works                0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Landfill Site ev.        0.000  0.006 0.017 0.015 0.004 0.000 0.042
- Clearing Exist. Refuse  0.000  0.002 0.007 0.006  0.002  0.000 0.016
Vehicles & Equipment       0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000
- Skip Vehicles            0.000  0.040  0.104  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.160
- Open Container           0.000  0.025 0.065 0.010 0.000 0.000  0.100
- Covered Container        0.000  0.001 0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.005
- Landfill Equipment       0.000 0.054  0.141  0.022  0.000 0.000 0.217
Lend Acqusition            0.030 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.030
....... ......... ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ...... ........ _
Sub-Total                   0.030 0.129 0.337 0.069 0.006 0.000  0.571
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE NGWT.
- Vehicles & Equip.        0.000 0.017 0.045  0.007 0.000  0.000  0.069
F. DESIGN   SUPERVISION         0.009 0.031 0.031  0.009 0.009 0.000 0.089
.... i;.... .... ....... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... .............. ...
Totat INVESTMENWT COSTS            0.129  0.935  1.394 0.299 0.019  0.000  2.776
it. RECUtRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL i MINT. (30)   0.000  0.003  0.030 0.069  0.078  0.086  0.266
S. PERSONAL SERY. CONTRACT      0.034  0.034  0.034 0.034 0.034  0.000  0.172
.... ....... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ........ ..............
Totat RECURRENT COSTS              0.034  0.038 0.064 0.104 0.112 0.086 0.437
muu   mm  smmu  m        u U  mum..go
Total                           0.164  0.973  1.458  0.402 0.131  0.086 3.213
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:55



Annex 16
-148-                                            Page 5 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3. KETA/ANLOGA
Detailed Cost Table
Cedi
Base Costs In USS
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Totat
....... .............. ......... .................. .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...... ...............
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
- Traffic Mgmt. Neawres  0.002 0.016  0.018  0.004  0.000  0.000  0.039
- Rehab. Rds. & Drains     0.050 0.401  0.451  0.100 0.000 0.000  1.002
- Drains                   0.002 0.013  0.015 0.003  0.000  0.000  0.032
..... ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ........ .................. ...
Sub-Total                   0.054 0.430 0.483  0.107 0.000 0.000  1.074
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Security Lights          0.001  0.006  0.007  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.015
- Toilets & Urinals        0.002 0.020 0.022  0.005  0.000 0.000  0.049
- Shower Slocks            0.000 0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.007
- Ext. of Light. & Water   0.000 0.003  0.004  0.001  0.000 0.000  0.008
- Access Rds to L. Parks  0.002 0.016  0.018 0.004  0.000 0.000  0.039
_. ;;--; ....;. . ;... ... ..... ...... .... ;....
Sub-Total                   0.006 0.04?  0.053  0.012 0.000 0.000 0.118
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition           0.055 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.055
Civil Works                0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Landfill Site Dov.       0.000 0.063  0.168  0.147  0.042  0.000 0.421
- Concrete Pads 24m Cant  0.000 0.003  0.007  0.006 0.002  0.000 0.018
Vehicles & Equipnent       0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Tractors                 0.000 0.037 0.097 0.015  0.000  0.000 0.150
- Tralers                  0.000 0.022  0.058  0.009  0.000 0.000 0.090
- Landfill Equipment       0.000 0.018  0.046  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.071
- Clearing Refuse Heaps   0.000 0.004  0.011  0.002  0.000  0.000 0.016
- Container Vehicles       0.000 0.060 0.156  0.024  0.000  0.000 0.240
- Containtainer (24        0.000 0.033 0.087 0.013  0.000 0.000 0.133
...    ... ...       ... ....     ..;    ...  ......
Sub-Total                   0.    0 1  0.    0.    0.044  0.    1.195
0. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Land Acquisition           0.010 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.010
Vehicles                   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Cesspit Emptier          0.000 0.020  0.052 0.008 0.000  0.000  0.080
Credit Scheme Toitet Cons  0.000 0.025  0.066  0.057 0.016  0.000 0.164
Civil Works                0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000
- Exten. Elect. (Sites)    0.000 0.003  0.007  0.006 0.002  0.000  0.017
- Const. hand dug well    0.000 0.002  0.006 0.005  0.001  0.000 0.014
- Const. of Add. Toilets  0.000 0.018  0.049  0.043  0.012  0.000  0.123
- Rehab. of Toilets        0.000 0.052 0.138  0.120 0.034  0.000  0.344
- Renovation of Toilets    0.000 0.008 0.022 0.019  0.005  0.000  0.054
- Dev. Disposal Sites      0.000 0.033 0.087 0.077 0.022  0.000  0.219
..... ...... ..... ......... ...... ......... ...... ........ .. ....   _.
Sub-total                   0.010 0.160 0.426 0.335  0.093  0.000  1.025
E. MAINTENANCE UASTE MONT.
- Vehicles & Equip.        0.000 0.006 0.016  0.002 0.000  0.000  0.025
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION         0.011  0.039 0.039  0.011  0.011  0.000  0.113
.,.. .. ; ..... .... ...... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             0.136 0.924  1.650 0.692  0.149  0.000 3.550
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL & MAINT. O3X)    0.000 0.004 0.029 0.076  0.096  0.109 0.314
3. PERSONAL SERV. CONTRACT      0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034  0.000 0.172
...... ........ ...... ....... ..... ....... .... ....... ..... .................. ...
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.034  0.038 0.064  0.110 0.130  0.109 0.485
Total                           0.170 0.962  1.713  0.802  0.279  0.109 4.036
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:5



-149-                                         Annex 16
Page 6 of 15
REPU8LIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOWPENT PROJECT
Table 4. KOFORItDUA
Detailed Cost Table
Cedi
Base Costs in US$
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 total
............ .......... ...,..............................................................._
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...... ..............
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Ngmt. Msures    0.006 0.049 0.055  0.012 0.000 0.000  0.123
Intersectian SignaLs      0.001  0.005  0.006 0.001  0.000 0.000 0.012
Rehab. of Rds. A Draln St 0.037 0.29   0.336 0.075  0.000 0.000 0.747
Const. Mew Stom Drains   0.007 0.052 0.059 0.013  0.000 0.000 0.131
......   ........ ......  ......... ......   ......... ...... .................. .........
Sub-Totat                  0.051  0.405  0.456 0.101 0.000 0.000  1.013
B. METS & LORRY PARKS
- Toitets                 0.011  0.092 0.103 0.023 0.000 0.000 0.229
- Public Stancdpipes      0.000  0.003 0.003 0.001  0.000  0.000 0.006
- Drainage                0.003 0.024  0.02? 0.006 0.000 0.000 0.059
- Paving of Markets       0.010 0.080  0.090 0.020 0.000  0.000 0.201
- Security Lights         0.001  0.011 0.012 0.003  0.000 0.000 0.027
E Earthwork               0.013 0.102 0.115  0.026  0.000 0.000 0.256
A Access Roads (Markets)  0.010 0.079 0.088 0.020 0.000 0.000 0.19?
......... .......... ... .... _... .... ... . ........  ... ........ ......
Sub-Totad                  0.049 0.390 0.439 0.098  0.000  0.000 0.975
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Whrks               0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
L andfill Sites Dev.      0.000 0.014 0.037 0.032 0.009 0.000  0.091
Concrete Pads for Skis  0.000 0.003 0.007 0.006 0.002 0.000 0.018
Clearing Exit. Refuse   0.000 0.002 0.006 0.006 0.002  0.000 0.016
Vehicles & Ecuipment      0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Skip Vehicte            0.000 0.040 0.104 0.016 0.000 0.000 0.160
- open Containers (13 c)  0.000 0.012 0.032 0.005 0.000 0.000 0.050
Open Containers (13 c)  0.000 0.027 0.069 0.011  0.000 0.000 0.107
Covered Containers (13  0.000 0.001 0.003 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.005
- Roll-on/off Vehicles    0.000 0.060 0.156 0.024 0.000 0.000 0.240
Landfitl Equipment      0.000 0.054 0.141 0.022 0.000 0.000 0.217
Land Acquisition          0.067 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.067
...... ........ ...... ......... .. .. .. .. .... ...............
Sub-Total                  0.067 0.213 0.556 0.122 0.013 0.000 0.971
0. LIQUIO VASTE MANAGEMENT
Civit Uorks               0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Exten. of hater (Site)  0.000 0.001 0.004 0.003 0.001  0.000 0.010
- Rehab. of Toflets       0.000 0.002 0.007 0.006 0.002 0.000 0.016
- Renovation of To{iets   0.000 0.013 0.033 0.029 0.008 0.000 0.084
Conserv. of Toitets     0.000 0.006 0.016 0.014 0.004 0.000 0.041
Vehicles & Equipment      0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Cesspit Emptier         0.000 0.060 0.157 0.024 0.000 0.000 0.241
- mightsoil Containers    0.000 0.006 0.016 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.025
Credit Scheme ToItet Cons 0.000 0.018 0.049 0.043 0.012 0.000 0.123
Sub-Totat                  0.000 0.108 0.283 0.122 0.027 0.000 0.540
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MGNT.
- Vehfcles & Equfp.       0.000 0.017 0.045 0.007 0.000 0,800 0.069
F. OESIGN & SUPERVISION        0.012 0.041 0.041 0.012 0.012 0.000 0.118
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            0.178 1.175 1.820 0.462 0.052 0.000 3.686
tl. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL a PAINT. (3M)   0.000 0.005 0.038 0.089 0.102 0.114 0.347
B. PERSONAL SERV. CONTRACT     0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.000 0.172
...   .. .. ... ...  .... _....  ......... ... ....  ...... .........
Totat RECURRENT COSTS             0.034 0.039 0.072 0.123 0.136 0.114 0.519
auama   -   smin   -            -u=   m==
Total                          0.212  1.214  1.892 0.585 0.188 0.l14 4.205
- Values scated by 1000000.0  11/4/1993 22:5



-150-                                       Annex 16
-1 - O                                         Page 7 of 15
-                     A~~~~~~~EPUDLIC or GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5. SUEDRU
Detailed Cost Tabte
Cedi
ease Costs in USS
1994  1995  1996  199?  1998  1999 Totat
..... ............ ............ ........................... .......... ........ ..
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Ngst. Measures    0.002 0.013 0.015 0.003 0.000 0.000 0.033
Intersection Signals     0.001 0.005 0.006 0.001  0.000 0.000 0.012
Rehab. of Roads          0.060 0.478 0.538 0.120 0.000 0.000 1.195
... ...... ;;    ............ ......  ......  ......... ......  ........ ......... ...
Sub-Total                 0.062 0.496 0.558 0.124 0.000 0.000  1.240
B. MAKEETS & LORRY PAR0S
- Toilets/Urinals        0.007 0.052 0.059 0.013 0.000 0.000 0.131
- Public Staddpipes      0.000 0.001  0.002 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.003
- Paving of Markets      0.004 0.029 0.032 0.007 0.000 0.000 0.072
- Security Lights        0.001 0.004 0.005 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.011
- Shower BlocKs          0.000 0.002 0.002 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.005
- Drainage               0.000 0.002 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.005
.......... ...... ..... ....... .. .. .. .. ...... ...... ......... ......
Sub-Total                 0.011 0.091 0.102 0.023 0.000 0.000 0.22?
C. SOLID USTE ANAGEMET
Civil Vorks              0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Landftill Site Develop.  0.000 0.011  0.030 0.026 0.008 0.000 0.076
- Clearing Exist. Refuse  0.000 0.001 0.003 0.003 0.001  0.000 0.008
Vehicles & Equipment     0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Tractors               0.000 0.037 0.097 0.015 0.000 0.000 0.1SO
- Trailers               0.000 0.022 0.058 0.009 0.000 0.000 0.090
- Landfill Equipment     0.000 0.018 0.046 0.00r 0.000 0.000 0.071
Land Acquisition         0.013 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.013
Sub-Total                 0.013 0.090 0.236 0.060 0.008 0.000   00
0. LIQUID WASTE NMAAGENT
Civil lorks             0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
* Exten. of Elect.CSite)  0.000 0.001  0.003 0.003 0.001  0.000 0.009
- Exten. of Water (Site)  0.000 0.001  0.003 0.003 0.001  0.000 0.009
- Rehab. of Toilets      0.000 0.006 0.016 0.014 0.004 0.000 0.041
- Renovation of Toilets   0.000 0.010 0.026 0.023 0.007 0.000 0.066
Land Acquisition         0.003 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.003
VehicLes                 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Cespit Emptier         0.000 0.020 0.052 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.080
Credit Schew for Toilets 0.000 0.005 0.013 0.011 0.003 0.000 0.033
...... ...... ..... ....... ..... ....... ..... ....... .... ...... ...... ........ ...
Sub-TotaL                 0.003 0.044 0.115 0.063 0.016 0.000 0.240
E. NAINTENANCE VASTE NGIT.
- Vehicles & Equip.      0.000 0.006 0.016 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.025
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION       0.007 0.025 0.025 0.007 0.007 0.000 0.072
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           0.097 0.752  1.052 0.280 0.031 0.000 2.213
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION & MIINT. (3E)    0.000 0.003 0.024 0.053 0.061  0.064 0.205
S. PERSONAL SERV. CONTRACT    0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.000 0.172
Total REClRRENT COSTS            0.034 0.037 0.058 0.088 0.096 0.064 0.37
mama m   ~amav=mm M a ma = mmasaai=m
Total                         0.132 0.789 1.110 0.367 0.12? 0.064 2.589
- Values scaled by 1000000.0 11/4/1993 22:56



-151-                                              Annex 16
Page 8 of 15
REPUBLIC Of 6HAIA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT POJECT
Table 6. VA
Detaled Cost Tabte
Cedi
Base Costs In USS
usuasumussussuussSuusu,ssgususas -amu s*s
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
................. ........................................................ 
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Ngmt. Measures     0.002  0.020  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000 0.049
Rehab. of Rds. & Drains   0.034  0.275  0.310  0.069  0.000  0.000 0.688
......  ........ ......  .......... ......  .......... ...... ................ ......... ...
Sub-Total                   0.037 0.295  0.332  0.074  0.000 0.000 0.737
B. MRKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                  0.003  0.024  0.027  0.006 0.000  0.000 0.059
- Urinals                  0.001  0.005  0.006 0.001  0.000 0.000 0.013
- Bath Houses              0.000 0.002  0.002  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.005
- Paving                   0.008 0.062  0.070 0.016  0.000 0.000 0.156
- Security Lights          0.001  0.006 0.007 0.002 0.000  0.000 0.015
- Orainage                 0.002 0.013  0.015  0.003  0.000 0.000 0.032
, ....~~~~~~..                   ....... ...... .................. .............. ...
Sub-Total                   0.014 0.112 0.126  0.028  0.000  0.000 0.281
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Ci vil Works               0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Landfill Site Develop.   0.000 0.007 0.018 0.016  0.005  0.000 0.045
C Clearing Exist. Refuse  0.000 0.002 0.006 0.006 0.002  0.000 0.016
- Concrete Pads for Skip  0.000 0.003 0.007  0.006 0.002  0.000 0.018
Vehicles a Equipment       0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
* Skip Vehfcle             0.000 0.020 0.052 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.080
Open Containers          0.000 0.021  0.055 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.085
C Covered Containers       0.000  0.001  0.003  0.001  0.000 0.000 0.005
L Landfill Equipment       0.000 0.054  0.141  0.0Z  0.000  0.000 0.217
Land Acquisition           0.025  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.025
....  ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............. ....
Sub-Total                   0.025  0.109 0.283  0.066 0.008  0.000  0.491
0. LIQUID VASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Exten. of Water/Elect.  0.000 0.003  0.009 0.008 0.002  0.000 0.023
- Const. Water Tankers     0.000 0.002  0.005  0.005  0.001  0.000  0.014
= Compl. Abandon Toilets   0.000 0.002 0.007 0.006 0.002 0.000 0.016
- Rehab. of Toilets        0.000 0.017 0.046  0.040 0.011  0.000 0.115
- Renovation of Toilets    0.000  0.018  0.047  0.041  0.012 0.000  0.118
Land Acquisition           0.005  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.005
Vehicles & Equipoent       0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Rept. Csspit Eaptier   0.000 0.020  0.052  0.008 0.000  0.000 0.080
Credit Schene for Toilets  0.000 0.007 0.020  0.017 0.005  0.000  0.049
....     ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............ .........
Sub-Total                   0.005  0.070  0.186 0.125  0.033 0.000 0.420
E. MAINTEUANCE VASTE MONT.
- Vehicles B Equip.        0.000  0.017 0.045  0.007 0.000 0.000 0.069
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION         0.007  0.023  0.023  0.007 0.007 0.000 0.067
.... ...... w..... ....... .... ....... ..... ......... ...... ........ ......... ...
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             0.088      0.0.996  0.307 0.048  0.000 2.065
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION & MAIMT. (3X)      0.000 0.002  0.020 0.048  0.057  0.060  0.186
8. PMRCONAL SERV. CONTRACT      0.034 0.034  0.034  0.034 0.034  0.000  0.172
,...... ........ ...... ........  ......... . s...... .............
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.034  0.037 0.054  0.082 0.091  0.060 0.358
Total                           0.122 0.664  1.050  0.389  0.139  0.060 2.423
Values scaled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:56



-152-                                             Annex  16
Page 9 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOvER"UENT OEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Table 7. CAPE COAST
DetaIled Cost Tab(e
Cedi
8bse Costs In USS
1994  195   1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
_ ._................ _.......... ..................... ..... ......._
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...............
A. RCADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic gmMt. Ieasures    0.002 0.020 0.022 0.005 0.000 0.000 0.049
Rehab. of Rds. & Drain    0.034 0.275 0.310 0.069 0.000 0.000 0.688
Sub-Total                 0.03? 0.295 0.332 0.074 0.000 0.000 0.7
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
-Toilets                 0.007 0.052 0.059 0.013 0.000 0.000 0.131
- Shower Btocks          0.000 0.003 0.003 0.001  0.000 0.000 0.007
- Public Standpipes      0.000 0.001  0.001  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.001
- Paving                 0.006 0.046 0.052 0.011  0.000 0.000 0.115
- Security Lights        0.001 0.008 0.009 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.019
- Earthwork              0.002 0.014 0.016 0.004 0.000 0.000 0.036
- Exist. Elect./Water    0.001 0.010 0.011 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.025
-Market Access Roads     0.004 0.034 0.038 0.009 0.000 0.000 0.085
* Drainage               0.001 0.009 0.010 0.002 0.000 0.000  0.023
. ..... ..... .i . . .........  ......... ...... ......
Sub-Total                 0.022 0.177 0.199  0.044  0.000 0.000 0.442
C. SOLID UASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works              0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Landfill Site DevelO.   0.000 0.006 0.017 0.015 0.004 0.000 0.042
C Clearing Exist. Refuse  0.000 0.002 0.006 0.006 0.002 0.000 0.016
- ConsoLid. Exist. OfD'.  0.000 0.006 0.016 0.014 0.004 0.000 0.041
-Cncrete Pads for Skip  0.000 0.003 0.007 0.006 0.002 0.000 0.018
Vehicles & Equipment     0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Skfp Vehicte           0.000 0.020 0.052 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.080
- Open Containers        0.000 0.021 0.055  0.008 0.000 0.000 0.085
- Covered Containers     0.000 0.003  0.007 0.001  0.000 0.000 0.011
- Landfill Equipment     0.000 0.054 0.141 0.022 0.000 0.000 0.217
Land Acquisition         0.010 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.010
Sub-Total                 0.010 0.116 0.302 0.080  0.012 0.000 0.520
0. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works              0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Land Acquisition         0.002 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.002
- Exten. of Toilets      0.000 0.003 0.008 0.007 0.002 0.000 0.020
- Reha. of Toilets       0.000 0.049 0.131  0.115 0.033 0.000 0.328
- Renovation of Toilets   0.000 0.013 0.035 0.031  0.009 0.000 0.088
Vehicles                 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Cespit Eaptier         0.000 0.020 0.052 0.008 0.000 0.000 0.080
Mightso{( Container    0.000 0.006 0.016 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.025
Credit Scheme for Toilets 0.000 0.025  0.066 0.057 0.016 0.000 0.164
.w..... ...  ......... ..........  ....... .... ....... ......  ......... ......
SubTotal                  0.002 0.116 0.309 0.221  0.060 0.000 0.708
E. NAINTENANCE WASTE MONT.
- Vehfcles & Equip.      0.000 0.017 0.044 0.007 0.000 0.000 0.068
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION       0.008 0.028 0.028 0.008 0.008 0.000 0.081
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           0.079 0.749 1.214          0.43 0 0.000  2.556
It. RECRRERT COSTS
...............
A. OPERATION & PINT. (3M)     0.000 0.002 0.023 0.057 0.070 0.074 0.226
*. PERSONAL SERY. CONTRACT    0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.000 0.172
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ...... ..... .................. ...
*totl RECURRENT COSTS            0.034 0.036 0.057 0.092 0.104 0.074 0.397
Total                         0.113  0.76  1.272 0.525 0.184 0.074 2.953
- Values scaled by 1000000.0 11/4/1993 22:56



-153-
Annex 16
Page 10 of 15
REPUBLIC O GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8. ELNINA
Detalled Cost Table
Cedi
Base Costs fn USS
ag3333u33i3:33$3u382333838-3-33:u333n8n3
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   19M    Total
.... .............................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. ROADS & ORAINAGE
Traffic Ngmt. Measures      0.001  0.010  0.011  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.025
- Drainage                 0.001  0.006  0.007 0.002  0.000  0.000  0.016
Rehab. of Rds. & Drains    0.039  0.315  0.354  0.079  0.000  0.000  0.786
..... ....... ...... ...... .... ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............
Sub-Total                    0.041  0.331  0.372  0.083  0.000  0.000  0.827
S. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
B Bathrooms & Urinals      0.002  0.013  0.015  0.003  0.000  0.000  0.033
- Exten. Water/tElect.     0.004  0.029  0.033  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.074
- Public Standpipes         0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.001
- Earthaorks                0.004  0.029  0.032  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.071
* Security Lights           0.000  0.003  0.004  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.008
- Shower Blocks            0.001  0.006  0.006  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.014
- P  ving (sld)             0.006  0.046  0.052  0.011  0.000  0.000  0.115
, ..... .... ...... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ........... . _...
Sub-Total                    0.016  0.126  0.142  0.032  0.000  0.000  0.316
C. SOLID WASTE ANAGEMENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Landfill Site Oev.        0.000  0.027  o.on  0.063  0.018  0.000  0.179
- Clearfng Exist. Refuse   0.000  0.001  0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.008
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
= Tractors                  0.000  0.025  0.065  0.010  0.000  0.000  0.100
- TraiLers                 0.000  0.012  0.032  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.050
- Landftll Equipment        0.000  0.018  0.046  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.071
Land Acquisition            0.007  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.007
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ..... .............. ...... ...
Sub-Total                    0.007  0.084  0.219  0.088  0.019  0.000  0.417
D. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
Exten. of Water/Elect    0.000  0.003  0.007  0.006  0.002  0.000  O.O8
C Cment. Add. Toilets      0.000  0.003  0.008  0.007  0.002  0.000  0.020
R Renowvtion of Toilets    0.000  0.004  0.010  0.009  0.002  0.000  0.025
* Rehab. of Tofiets        0.000  0.022  0.059  0.052  0.015  0.000  0.147
Land Acquisition            0.002  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.002
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Cesspit Eqptier           0.000  0.020  0.052  0.008  0.000  0.000  0.080
Credit Scheme Toilet Cons  0.000  0.012  0.033  0.029  0.008  0.000  0.082
....  ....... ......  ........  .......... ......  ......... ...... .............. ...
Sub-Total                    0.002  0.064  0.169  0.110  0.029  0.000  0.375
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE NWT.
- Vehicles & Equip.        0.000  0.006  0.016  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.025
f. DESIGN & SUPERVISION          0.007  0.023  0.023  0.007  0.007  0.000  0.065
....  ....... ...... ......... ...... ........  .......... ...... .............. ...
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              0.074  0.633  0.941  0.321  0.054  0.000  2.024
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. OPERATION & NAINT. (32)       0.000  0.002  0.020  0.046  0.055  0.063  0.186
S. PERSONAL SERV. CONTRACT       0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.000  0.172
...... ........ ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... .............. ....
Total RECURRT COSTS                 0.034  0.036  0.054  0.081  0.090  0.063  0.358
Total                            0.108  0.670  0.995  0.402  0.144  0.063  2.382
Vatues wcated by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:56



-154-
Annex 16
Page 11 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9. BOLGATANGA
Detailed Cost Teble
Cedi
Base Costs in USt
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
..    ..   ...................................................  ..........
t. IST"MET COSTS
................
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Ngmt. Neasures      0.002  0.020  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Intersection Signats       0.002  0.015  0.017  0.004  0.000  0.000  0.037
Rehab. of Rds. & Drains    0.090  0.723  0.814  0.181  0.000  0.000  1.808
Const. Storam Drains        0.006  0.045  0.051  0.011  0.000  0.000  0.114
..... ..... .. . ..... ...... ...... ....... .. .. . .
Sub-Total                    0.100  0.803  0.904  0.201  0.000  0.000  2.008
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets & Urinals        0.005  0.039  0.044  0.010  0.000  0.000  0.098
* Rehab. of Lorry Parks    0.004  0.033  0.037  0.008  0.000  0.000  0.082
- Public Standpipes         0.000  0.001  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.001
- Paving                    0.013  0.101  0.114  0.025  0.000  0.000  0.252
- Security Lights           0.001  0.008  0.009  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.020
- Both Hou"s                0.000  0.002  0.002  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.005
-Drainage                   0.002  0.019  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
- Fencing                  0.002  0.013  0.01S  0.003  0.000  0.000  0.033
-.i . ..... . . .............. ...... ......... .. ....... 
Sub-Total                    0.027  0.216  0.243  0.054  0.000  0.000  0.541
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGENENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
Land Acquisition            0.025  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.025
- Landfill Site Develop.   0.000  0.006  0.017  0.015  0.004  0.000  0.042
- Clearine Exist. Refuse   0.000  0.002  0.006  0.006  0.002  0.000  0.016
- Concrete Pads for Skip   0.000  0.002  0.006  0.005  0.001  0.000  0.014
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
= Skip Vehicles            0.000  0.040  0.104  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.160
Open Containers           0.000  0.031  0.081  0.012  0.000  0.000  0.125
- Covered Containers       0.000  0.001  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.005
L Landfill Equipment        0.000  0.054  0.141  0.022  0.000  0.000  0.217
-  .;  ----  -----         ................ ..... ......... .... ..... 
Sub-Total                    0.025  0.138  0.359  0.076  0.007  0.000  0.605
0. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Conpl. Aband. Tolfets    0.000  0.015  0.039  0.034  0.010  0.000  0.098
- Rehab. of Toilets        0.000  0.010  0.026  0.023  0.007  0.000  0.066
- Renovation of Toilets    0.000  0.022  0.059  0.052  0.015  0.000  0.147
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
C Ceespit Euptier           0.000  0.040  0.105  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.161
- Credit Scheme (Toilet)   0.000  0.015  0.039  0.034  0.010  0.000  0.098
Land Acquisition            0.005  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.005
..... ....... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ........ .................. ...
Sub-Total                    0.005  0.102  0.268  0.159  0.041  0.000  0.576
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MONT.
- Vehicles & Equip.        0.000  0.017  0.045  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.069
F. DESIGN 8 SUPERVISION          0.013  0.044  0.044  0.013  0.013  0.000  0.126
... .....  ...  ........  ......  ......... ......  ......... ...... .............. ...
Totat INVESINENT COSTS              0.170  1.320  1.863  0.510  0.061  0.000  3.923
It. RECURRENT COSTS
.. .............
A. OPERATION & MAINT. (3X)       0.000  0.005  0.042  0.094  0.109  0.121  0.371
S. PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACT    0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.000  0.172
......   ........ ......   ......... ......    ......... ...... ......... ..... ............. 
Total RECURRENT COSTS               0.034  0.039  0.076  0.129  0.143  0.121  0.542
uses  _saa3  agnuan an = c        s= awasm uuUbU
Totat                            0.204  1.359  1.939  0.638  0.204  0.121  4.466
- Values scated by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:56



-155-                                                 Annex 16
Page 12 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10. OAWKU
Detailed Cost Table
Cedi
Base Costs in US*
1994   1995   1996   1997   198   1999  T tat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Ngmt. Measures      0.002  0.020  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Intersection Signalizatio  0.001  0.005  0.006  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.012
Rehab. of Roads & Drains   0.135  1.077  1.212  0.269  0.000  0.000  2.693
Const. Storm Drains         0.003  0.026  0.029  0.006  0.000  0.000  0.065
......   ........ ......   ........  .......... ......   ........ .................. ...
Sub-Total                    0.141  1.128  1.269  0.282  0.000  0.000  2.819
B. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
- Toilets                   0.008  0.066  0.074  0.016  0.000  0.000  0.164
- Fencing                   0.001  0.007  0.007  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.016
- Public Standpipes         0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.001
- Paving                    0.005  0.040  0.045  0.010  0.000  0.000  0.100
- Security Lights           0.002  0.015  0.017  0.004  0.000  0.000  0.038
- Shower Block              0.000  0.002  0.002  0.001  0.000  0.000  O.OOS
- Drainage                 0.003  0.024  0.027  0.006  0.000  0.000  0.060
...........  ......         .....  .... ....
Sub-Total                    0.019  0.154  0.173  0.038  0.000  0.000  0.385
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
Landfill Site Develop.   0.000  0.007  0.017  0.015  0.004  0.000  0.043
* Clearing Exist. Refuse   0.000  0.001  0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.008
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
Tractors                  0.000  0.037  0.097  0.015  0.000  0.000  0.150
Trailors                 0.000  0.022  0.058  0.009  0.000  0.000  0.090
- Landfill Equipment        0.000  0.018  0.046  0.007  0.000  0.000  0.071
Land Acquisition            0.025  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.025
-- ;..... . .... . . ......  ......... ......  ......... ......
Sub-Total                    0.025  0.086  0.223  0.049  0.005  0.000  0.388
D. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Exten. of Water Tanks    0.000  0.002  0.004  0.004  0.001  0.000  0.011
- Rehab. of Toilets         0.000  0.002  0.005  0.005  0.001  0.000  0.C13
- Const. Add. Toilets      0.000  0.005  0.013  0.011  0.003  0.000  0.033
- Renovation of Toilets    0.000  0.021  0.055  0.048  0.014  0.000  0.138
Vehicles & Equipment        0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Ceosspit Emptier         0.000  0.020  0.052  0.008  0.000  0.000 0.080
Credit Schone Toilet Cons  0.000  0.007  0.020  0.017  0.005  0.000  0.049
Land Acquisition            0.005  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.005
...... ........ ...... ......... . ..*......... . ...... ......... .. .... 
Sub-Total                    0.005  0.057  0.150  0.093  0.024  0.000  0.329
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equip.         0.000  0.006  0.016  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.025
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION          0.013  0.046  0.046  0.013  0.013  0.000  0.130
...... ...... ...... .... ...... ...... ......
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              0.203  1.476  1.876  0.478  0.043  0.000 4.076
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION & HAINT. (3X)       0.000  0.006  0.047  0.100  0.114  0.118  0.385
B. PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACT    0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.000  0.172
...... ...... ...... ...... .... ...... ......
Total RECURRENT COSTS               0.034  0.040  0.081  0.135  0.148  0.118  0.556
#zu==   u--    uzz =a'===  EE= ===aus UJSSS#
Total                            0.238  1.516  1.958  0.613  0.191  0.118  4.633
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:57



-156-                                               Annex  16
Page 13 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GONERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 11. TECHIMAN
3c=a2uuu2m=5
Detailed Cost Table
Ced'
Base Costs in USS
1994  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  total
................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ROADS & DRAINAGE
Traffic Mgmt. Measures     0.002 0.020  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Rehab. Roads & Drainage    0.079 0.629  0.708  0.157  0.000  0.000  1.573
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. .... ......
Sub-Total                   0.081 0.649  0.730  0.162  0.000  0.000  1.622
S. MARKETS & LORRY PARKS
Existing L.Parks-19600msq  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000
- Toilets & Urinals        0.003  0.026 0.029 0.007 0.000  0.000 0.066
- Urinals                  0.000 0.004  0.004  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.010
- Security Lights          0.000 0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.007
- Paving                   0.009  0.073  0.083  0.018  0.000 0.000  0.183
- Bath Houses              0.000 0.003 0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.007
- Fencing                  0.001  0.007 0.007 0.002  0.000  0.000 0.016
Proposed L.Parks-26,000ms 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Paving                   0.011  0.092 0.103  0.023  0.000  0.000 0.229
* Security Lights          0.001  0.004 0.005  0.001  0.000 0.000  0.011
- Fencing                  0.001  0.007 0.007 0.002  0.000  0.000 0.016
MARKETS                    0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000
- Toilets & Urinals        0.010 0.079  0.088  0.020  0.000  0.000  0.197
-Public Standpipes         0.000 0.003  0.003  0.001  0.000  0.000 0.007
-Drainage                  0.010 0.083  0.093 0.021  0.000  0.000 0.207
-Paving of Narkets         0.054  0.432  0.486  0.108  0.000  0.000  1.081
- Security Lights          0.002 0.019  0.022  0.005  0.000  0.000  0.049
Shower Houses              0.002  0.018 0.020  0.004  0.000  0.000 0.044
, . .........  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......
Sub-Total                   0.107 0.852  0.959 0.213  0.000 0.000 2.131
C. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civit Works                0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000
- Landftill Site Develop.   0.000  0.014  0.038 0.033  0.009 0.000 0.094
- Clearing Exist. Refuse   0.000  0.002  0.005  0.004  0.001  0.000 0.011
Land Acquisition           0.016  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.016
Vehicles & Equipment       0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000
- Tractors                 0.000  0.037 0.097 0.015 0.000 0.000  0.150
- Trailers                 0.000  0.022 0.058  0.009  0.000  0.000 0.090
- Landfill Equipment       0.000  0.018  0.046  0.007 0.000  0.000 0.071
......   ........ ......   ......... ......   ......... ...... ......... ..... ............
Sub-Total                   0.016  0.094  0.245  0.068  0.011  0.000 0.434
D. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Civil Works                0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000
Land Acquisition           0.000 0.001  0.001  0.001  0.000  0.000  0.004
- Exten. of Water Tanks    0.000 0.003  0.007 0.006 0.002  0.000  0.017
- Const. Add. Toilets      0.000  0.020  0.052  0.046  0.013  0.000  0.131
- Rehab. of Toilets        0.000 0.019  0.051  0.045  0.013  0.000  0.128
Vehicles & Equipment       0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000
- Cesspit Emptier          0.000 0.020 0.052  0.008  0.000 0.000 0.080
Credit Scheme Toilet Cons  0.000  0.009 0.023  0.020  0.006  0.000  0.057
... ......  ......  ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ..................
Sub-Total                   0.000  0.071  0.187  0.126  0.034  0.000  0.417
E. MAINTENANCE WASTE MGMT.
- Vehicles & Equip.        0.000  0.006  0.016  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.025
F. DESIGN & SUPERVISION         0.015  0.053  0.053  0.015  0.015  0.000  0.153
......  ....... ......  ........ ....  ....  .. ..........  ..... ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             0.219  1.725  2.190  0.587  0.059  0.000 4.781
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION & MAINT. (3%)      0.000  0.006  0.055  0.117  0.133  0.139  0.449
S. PERSONAL SERVECE CONTRACT    0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.034  0.000  0.172
..... .. . -----   --.. ---. ------ . -- --   -- - - - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.034  0.040 0.089  0.151  0.168  0.139  0.621
C=-    ------ --= -  ----  - ===  = -52   == =  a==t =a====
Total                           0.254  1.765  2.279  0.738  0.227  0.139  5.401
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  11/4/1993  22:57



-1 57-                                          Annex  16
Page 14 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Detailed Cost Table
Cedi
Base COsts in USt
1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999  Total
.............................. ...................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
............ ...............
A. MIN.OF LOC.GOVT/RURAL CEV
COORDINATION TECH. ASSIST  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000
- Local Consultant        0.036 0.042 0.042  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.120
- Veh.(Coordinat. Unit)   0.020 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.020
- Computer Package        0.004 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.004
- Operating Costs         0.006 0.007 0.007  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.019
..... ...... ..... ...... .... ........ ......  ........ ......  ............ ........
Sub-Total                  0.066 0.049  0.049  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.163
B. TRAINING (11 Districts)
Dist-Focussed Training     0.052 0.052 0.052  0.052  0.052 0.000 0.262
Orientation Training       0.019 0.031  C.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.050
Exter. Seminas. & W/Shops 0.000 0.068 0.068 0.064 0.000 0.000  0.200
... ......................... ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... ..........
Sub-Total                  0.072  0.151  0.121  0.117 0.052  0.000  0.512
C. TOYN & COUNTRY PLAU. DEP.
- National Consultants    0.018  0.018  0.018  0.018  0.000 0.000 0.073
- Training                0.013  0.020  0.020 0.013 0.000  0.000 0.067
- 6 Pickups, 6 m/eyeles   0.105  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.105
- Cosaputers (6 packages)  0.024  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.024
- Other Equip.& Supplies   0.006 0.009 0.009  0.006  0.000  0.000 0.029
S Surveying & deuarcatio  0.000 0.010 0.010  0.009 0.000 0.000 0.029
Sub-Total                   0.167 0.057  0.057  0.047 0.000  0.000  0.327
0. TECH. ASSIST DIST. ASS.
NUN.ENG9.SUPPORT TO DIST.  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
- Local Consultants       0.160  0.187 0.187 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.534
- Double-cab Pickups(15)  0.375  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.375
- Furniture/Small Equip.   0.105  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.105
- Operational Support     0.010  0.012  0.012  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.034
- Reproduction/Printlng    0.001  0.002  0.002 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.005
FINAN. NGNT.SUPPORT TO DA  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000
- Local Consultants       0.160 0.187  0.187 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.534
- Vehites (4 for cons.)   0.100  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.100
- Computer Packages (4)   0.042  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.042
- FurnitureV/Smll Equip.   0.105  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.105
- Operational Support     0.010  0.012  0.012  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.034
- Photocopying/Printing    0.003  0.003  0.003  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.010
DIST. MONT. & PLAN. SUP.  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000
- Local Consultants       0.160 0.187  0.187 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.534
- Vehicles (4 for cons.)  0.100 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.100
- Cowputer Packages (4)   0.015  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.015
- Furniture/Other Equip.  0.019  0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.019
Operational Support      0.010 0.012 0.012  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.034
- Photocopying/Printing   0.001  0.002 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.005
OFFICE ACCOIOD. 4 REGIONS  0.000 0.023  0.023 0.023 0.023  0.023 0.114
.... ...... ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ............ ........ ........
Sub-Total                   1.378  0.626  0.626 0.023 0.023 0.023 2.699
E. SURVEY DEPT. (MLNR)
Napping Services         1.176  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  1.176
- Equipment & Supplfes    0.260 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.260
- Tech. Assist. (9M-r)    0.034 0.039  0.039 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.112
..... ---.. ..... ........ ......  ........ ......  ............ ........ ........
Sub-Total                   1.470  0.039  0.039  0.000 0.000  0.000  1.549
F. TECH. SERV. CENTRE (NWN)
- 2 Local Consultants     o.on  0.084 0.084  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.240
- Double-cab pickups (4)   0.099 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.099
- Operational Support     0.094 0.110 0.110 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.315
- Equipment & Material    0.014  0.017  0.01?  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.048
Sub-Total                   0.280 0.211  0.211  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.702
C. LAND VALUATION BOARD
- I1 Pickups; 66 WNBikes  0.345  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.345
- Computers (2 PC packs)  0.010 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.010
- Naterials               0.036 0.036 0.036  0.036  0.000 0.000 0.145
- Tech. Assist. (12 p/)  0.030 0.010 0.000  0.000  0.000 0.000 0.040
- Trafning                0.005 0.005  0.005  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.015
- Operational Support     0.026 0.026 0.026 0.026 0.000 0.000 0.105
....  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... .... ........ ........ ...
Sub-Total                   0.452  0.078 0.068  0.062  0.000  0.000 0.660
H. POLICY REV.(DA REV.NOBIL)
Local Consultants 12pm  0.014  0.026  0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.040



-158-                                                Annex  16
- Workshop                 0.002  0.004  0.000  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.006               Page  15 of 15
- Caq3uter Pkgs for cons   0.004  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.004
- Field Visits/Oper.Supp   0.001  0.002  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.004
.......... .......... ;i..... ...... ...... ......  ......... ......  ......... ......
Sub-Totat                   0.    0.032  0.000 0.000  0.000  0.000  0.054
I. ENGINEERING SUPERVIS-KfW     0.120  0.120  0.120  0.120  0.120  0.000  0.600
J. FUTURE PROJ. PREPATION       0.143  0.167  0.167  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.477
......  ........ ......  ........ ......   ......... ...... ......... ..... ............
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             4.168  1.530  1.457  0.369  0.195  0.023  7.742
Ug5E 3UU  UUS-     U UUgUUS SUZ55  5===5S  5a 8UUZZ-g
Total                           4.168  1.530  1.457  0.369  0.195  0.023  7.742
41> inst. Strengthening costs for each District Assetbly are shown on the
<2> tables detailing costs for each town.
Vatues scaled by 1000000.0  11/411993  2Z:57



-1 59-                           Annex 17
Republic of Ghana                   Page 1 of 1
Local Govemment Development Project
Summary Economic Rates of Return
Percent
PROJECT COMPONENT                  ERR       COST    of Total
(%O)    (US$000)    Cost
ROADS:
BOLGATANGA:
1.   Stadium Rd.                            50.80       230      2.37
z    Ubrary Rd.                             78.91       240      2.47
3.   Daportindongo Rd.                      77.01       200      2.06
SUNYANI:
4.  LUtllewood Rd.                          67.57       690      7.10
SWEDRU:
5.   Mankessim Rd.                         163.52       460      4.74
6.   CMB Junction                           39.11       253      2.60
7.   Shell                                  93.77       230      2.37
8.   Nsawam                                105.41       455      4.68
TECHIMAN:
9.   Tano St                                49.62       552      5.68
10.  Bamiri                                 49.08       690      7.10
11.   Gyarko Rd.                            78.20       345      3.55
12.  Residency Rd.                         183.93       230      2.37
13.  Market St.                            162.42       460      4.74
14.  Ahmadiyya Rd.                          62.17       345      3.55
MARKETS:
15.  Cape Coast                             29.90       450      4.63
16.  Ho                                     15.48       376      3.87
17.  Sunyani                                14.18       799      8.23
SOUD WASTE:
18.   Bolgatanga                            17.45       606      6.24
19.  Koforidua                              14.93       974    10.03
UQUID WASTE:
20.   Bolgatanga                            34.95       583      6.00
21.   Koforidua                             34.97       545      5.61
Overall Weighted ERR                58.60     9,713   100.00



-160-                            Annex 18
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVYFLOPMENT PROJECT
(Urban 111)
MEMORANDUM of UNDERSTANDING:
ROLE of TSC
Purpose
1.    This Memorandum of Understanding sets forth the agreement of the Ministry of Works
and Housing (MWH), the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) and
the Technical Services Centre of MWH (TSC) with respect to the role of TSC in the
implementation of the Local Government Development Project (LGDP) and its relationship to
MLGRD in that regard. It is understood that the relationships specified below pertain solely to
responsibilities of TSC with respect to the implementation of the LGDP. With respect to any
and aUl other responsiilities of TSC, the normal relationship between TSC as a unit of MWH,
and MWH, remains as it was prior to the effectiveness of LGDP.
Technical Management, Accounting, and Coordination
2.    Ministry of Local Govenment and Rural Development.   With respect to
implementation of the LGDP, the MLGRD is the designated Sector Ministry responsible.
Therefore, with respect to the Areas of Responsibility specified below, t' e TSC acts on behalf,
of the MLGRD. Reporting by the TSC with respect to LGDP shall be direct to the Chief
Director MLGRD.
3.    Ministry of Works and Housing. With specific respect to TSC's implementation
responsibilities under the tenrs of LGDP, and specifically limited to those specific responsibilities
of TSC, MWH shall ensure that TSC performs the role assigned to it under the project.
4.    Role of District Assemblies. As specified in paragraphs 2-3 above, TSC acts on behalf
of MLGRD  as the responsible Sector Ministry.  Nevertheless, in the exercise of its
responsibilities, TSC shall be mindful that the LGDF !rn among its objectives improved capacity
of District Assemblies to exercise specific responsibilities mandated by the Constitution of the
Fourth Republic and PNDC Law No. 207. Such responsibilities include making decisions
regarding investments, and/or operating and maintaining such investments, with respect to waste
management, markets and lorry parks, and urban streets and drains. Therefore, it can be
expected that the Credit Agreement for IDA financing of LGDP will specify roles and
responsibilities of District Assemblies for implementation of specific aspects of that project. The
terms of this Memorandum of Understanding shall be subordinate to any clauses in the IDAJGOG
Credit Agreement which govern the roles and responsibilities of the District Assemblies and
relationships among the District Assemblies, TSC, MLGRD, and/or MWH. In any event, TSC
views its role as being supportive of, and responsive to, the District Assemblies included in the
scope of the LGDP and hereby commits itself to ensure effective consultation with District
Assemblies on all significant matters for which it is assigned responsibility on behalf of MLGRD.
5.    Resolution of Disputes. In the event that disputes arise among MLGRD, MWH, and/or
TSC concerning the repository of authority to make any specific decision, take any action, or
require any specific information, the parties shall meet within seven (7) days of the dispute being
made known to any one of the parties and shall seek mutual agreement as to the appropriate roles



Anne* 18
-161-                                  Page 2 of 4
of the parties with respect to the specific dispute. Such resolution of disputes shall be guided by,
and be in conformity with, this Memorandum of Understanding.
Areas of Responsibility
6.     General Responsibilities. For purposes of implementation of the LGDP, and under the
terms and conditions specified in paragraphs 2 - 5 above, TSC acts on behalf of MLGRI) as the
responsible Sector Ministry. Under those general terms, TSC shall be specifically responsible
for supporting the district assemblies responsible for the towns of Bawku, Bolgatangt. Cape
Coast, Elmina, Ho, Keta, Koforidua, Sunyani, Swedru, Techiman, and Wa by performing the
following functionstactivities with respect to GOG/1DA LGDP investments for waste
management, markets and lorry parks, and streets and road-related drains; as follows:
(a)    Receive investment proposals direaly from the relevant District Assemblies and,
with the assistance of suitably qualified consultants, assess the feasibility of such
proposals (TSC will provide MLGRD with copies of all documentation received
from the District Assemblies and correspondence in this regard between district
assemblies and the TSC);
(b)    Be responsible, on behalf of the specific Dismict Assembly involved, for
supervising consultants responsible for preparing detailed engineering designs for
projects which have been judged technically feasible and are within the scope of
the IDA-financed LGDP - in that regard, TSC will -
(i)   Include the responsible district level engineering officer, where assigned
and available, in the supervision process as a form of on-the-job training;
the modalities of such involvement/training of district engineering
officers to be specified prior to Project Effectiveness (with respect to the
waste management component, the relevant engineer will be staff of the
District Assembly's Waste Management Unit, where such units have
actually been established),
(ii)   With specific respect to the waste management component, will clear the
Terms of Reference for, and technical specifications of, all detailed
engineering designs with the Government of Ghana Supply Commission
(GSC) and the Ministry of Environment (ME). IiQIE: Adoption of
this clause will be subject to any over-riding clauses regarding the role,
if any, of GSC and/or ME which might be included in the GOG/IDA
Credit Agreement.], and
(iii)   With specific respect to the streets and road-related drains component,
will consult with the Ghana Highways Authority (GHA) and or
Department of Urban Roads on the Terms of Reference and technical
specifications of all detailed engineering designs.
(c)    Facilitate approval of financing for approved projects based on formally recorded
"no objections" from the relevant District Assembly, MLGRD, and, where
required by the GOGtlDA Credit Agreement, IDA;
(d)    Maintain, jointly with MLGRD, a Special Account for the holding and
disbursing of IDA funds and a Project Account for the holding and disbursing
COG counterpart funds, authorized signatories for which wiU include at least one



Ann'ex 18
-162-                                  YPage 3 of 4
signature each from  TSC and MLGRD.  IQ3Z Adoption of this clause will
be subject to any over-riding clauses regarding the authorized procedures for
maintaining LGDP-related bank accounts and disbursements from those accounts
included in the GOG/IDA Credit Agreement; including the possibility of the
relevant district assemblies holding and disbursing any financial contributions that
might be provided by the district assemblies themselves.]; and
(e)    Maintain financial accounts and provide periodic financial reports as required.
7.    Procurement. TSC's specific responsibilities with regard to procurement, will be to
coordinate, manage, and assure that correct procurement procedures are observed during the
entire project cycle, Inter alia:
(a)   Select and Monitor consultants in the preparation of Bid Packages (with respect
to the Waste Management Component, in consultation with GSC and the relevant
District Assemblies) and review such packages prior to finalization;
(b)   Select and Monitor supervise consultants in the establishment of technical
specifications (as outlined in para. 7[b] above);
(c)    Select and Monitor consultants in the preparation of Bid Documents to be
reviewed by IDA and those GOG agencies as required or appropriate;
(d)   Submit required procurement documents and evaluation reports to IDA as
required;
(e)    Advertising for/sale of/soliciting bids;
(t)   Jointly with the relevant District Assemblies, evaluating bids (with specific
respect to the Waste Management Component, including GSC); and
(g)   Following local approval by GOG, regional, or district tender boards (as
appropriate) and in parallel with local coordion of the procurement process,
supervision by TSC of the procurement process and actual delivery of the
procured goods and services.
S.    Internal tTSC) Personnel Policy and Management. It is assumed here that any
addonal staff which might be assigned to TSC for the specific purpose of implementing LGDP
(i.e., in addition to those already employed by TSC) will be employed under the terms of
Personnel Services contracts and, thus, will not be G(3G Civil Servants. Therefore, the terms
and conditions of service for such staff will be proposed by TSC, approved by MWH and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planming (MFEP), and incorporated in individual contracts.
Specific cotact employees will be recruited by TSC, but the actually hiring decision will be
made by a committee consisting of authorized representatives of MLGRD, MWH, MFEP, and
the Public Services Commission (PSC). Promotion and/or transfer decisions will be subject to
the terms and conditions established for those purposes by the individual contracts. However,
in most cases, the same process specified above for original employment decisions will be
employed; in effect promoting or transferring contract personnel requires a new contract.
Authority to dismiss employees contracted specifically under the terms of LGDP will be retained
by the Director of TSC, subject to approval of MLGRD and the standard termination and
arbitration clauses included within employment contracts financed by IDA.
9.    Finally, it should be noted that TSCs responsibility are limited to the investment phase
of the IDA-financed LGDP project and does not extend to the operaions and maintenance phase
which follows completion of the investment phase. In addition, TSC has no ddct responsibility
for implementing the Local Government Capacity-BUiig  component of the project (with the
exception of facilitating the process for any large scale procurement of goods and services for that



Anilex 18
-163-                                 -Page 4 of 4
component), including decision-making or management of activities related to local government
revenue policy, revenue collection systems, and/or personnel policy and management.
Signatures
Signed                                               Signed
Ing. Sqn. Ldr. C.M.K. Sowu (Rtd) M.P.                Mr. Kwamena Ahwoi
Minister of Works and                                Minister of Local Government
Housing (MWH)                                        and Rural Development
Dated: 8th June, 1993.                               Dated: 8th July, 1993.
Witness: Signed                                      Witness: Signed
W.K. Alomatu                                        S.Y.M. Zanu
(Ag. Chief Director(F&A)                            (Ag. Chief Director(F&A)
Date: 8th June, 1993.                                Date: 8th July, 1993.
(7rFE - i' T I    .   _.    COPY



-164-
Annex9
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Moaitorng and Performance Indicators
1.    Monitoring indicators suggested below presuppose the existence of a year-by-year project
work plan which lays out, by quarte (a) the main physical implementation targets and (b) budgetary
expenditure targets. This overall work plan should be updated at least once per year. Monitoring
would involve comparing targets with indicators of actual progress. 1/
2.    Ihe Technical Services Center will be responsible for collecting and processing the
monitoring data and for preparing quarterly progress reports. In some cases, the information will be
directly available from TSC. In other cases, the concerned implementing agency (e.g. MLGRD,
District Assembly) will need to supply the data.
3.    TSC is currently using a system for budgetary reporting developed for the Urban II project
which can continue to be applied. Under the Local Government Development Project, some
additional implementation monitoring indicators will be used, as listed below.
4.    Also, in line with curent World Bank guidelines, monitoring wiUl extend to a number of
simple performance indicators. These refer to the quality of services delivered and institutional
capacity achieved after the inital investments in works, equipment, technical assistance, and trining.
.     Physcal bnplementatioq Monitoring Indicators for Ouarterlv Reporling
5.    For each section (A, B, C, etc.) listed below, the quarterly report should provide, in addition
to the physical implementation indicators suggested, a brief description of the main issues and
problem areas, planned solutions, and key activities for the upcoming quarter.
A.    District-by-District ImWlementation
Roads and Drains, Markets, Motor Parks, Solid Waste, Liquid Waste
1.    Advertisement for bids (date).
2.    Bid evaluation (date).
3.    Contract signing (date).
4.    Intiation of works (date).
5.    Percentage of physical implementation (according to the relevant unit of measurement)
against expected completion date.
1/    Quantitative targets for selected monitoring indicators will be available for and discussed at
negotiations. The agreed targets will be included in the minutes of negotiations.



-1 65-
Anna19
Page 2 of S
6.    For waste management: Land acquisition (key dated stages of the process for each
parcel).
B.    Aggegated fxnement of Euigpment
For each bid package:
1.    Bid advertisement (date).
2.    Bid evaluation (date).
3.    Signing of contract (date).
4.    Delivery of goods (date).
S.    Verification of quaitylquantity (date).
C.    Technical_ssistance
For each contract:
1.    Advertisement for proposals (date).
2.    Evaluation of proposals (date).
3.    Signing of contract (date).
4.    Initiation of work (date).
5.    Actual delivery of semices against original work schedule.
D.    Izaian
1.    Number of persons obtaining on-the-job training by type and duration.
2.    Number of persons attending in-country short courses by type of course, provider,
and duration.
3.    Number of personS attending on-site (i.e. in the worklace) workshops or seminars,
by type, provider, and duration.
4.    Number of persons attending training events in other countries, by type, provider, and
duration.



-166-
Annex 19
Page 3 of 5
E.    Estalishment of Operation and Maintenance Systems by Each District
1.    O&M Funds:
* Date and level of funding by each DA compared with target dates and
levels.
* Date and level of funding by IDA.
2.    Fee collection arrangements for markets, motor parks, and public toilets: setting new
rates, establishing new collection systems (may be dependent on a TA consultancy
contract monitored under C above).
F.    Finance and Revenue Improvements by Each District
1.    Progress on land revaluation for property tax (property numbering, preparation of new
valuation scales, preparation of new plans, computerization of data base and valuation
methodology, referencing of properties, valuation, production of new valuation lists).
2.    Development, installation, and training for new billing and collection system for
property tax (may be a TA consultancy contract monitored under C above).
3.    Development, installation, and training for new computerized accounting systems
(may be a TA consultancy contract monitored under C above).
G.    Town Planning/Develonment Control
Monitig indicators to be specified when implementation begins.
H.  oictran
1.    Dates and levels of funding of special funds by each DA.
2.    Training of small contractors (number).
3.    Number of applications received.
4.    Number of grants made and amount financed.
5.    Number of completed toilets.
II.    Project Budget Monitoring Indilcators for Ouarterly Reporting
As per curre  TSC reporting format, budget data are separated by funding sources: (a) GOG, (b)
IDA, and (c) co-fincier.
A.    DiskLWby-Distict Ezendibures
1.    Funds committed against funds budgeted, by physical component (roads, drains,
markets, motor parks, solid waste, liquid waste).



-167-
Ann  19
Page 4 of 5
2.    Funds disbursed by physical component.
3.    Sub-project accounts at District level: (a) balance, (b) number and monetary value of
disbursement requests received, (c) number and monetary value of requests processed,
(d) value of replenishment requests made, (e) value of replenishments actually made.
B.    Overall Project Expenditures
The following budget data will be tabulated for (a) civil works by type, (b) procurement of
goods by package, (c) technical assistance by category and contract, and (d) training by type
and contract.
1.    Funds committed against funds budgeted, by component.
2.    Funds disbursed by component.
3.    Special accounts at central level (IDA, GOG, and K(fW): (a) balance, Q,) number and
monetary value of disbursement requests received, (c) number and monetary value of
requests processed, (d) value of replenishment requests made, (e) value of
replenishments actually made.
MI.   nPerformance" Indicators
6.    These data are to be collected on a District-by-District basis. TSC will need to provide the
DAs with training and orientation on how this should be done. It may be necessary to engage a
consultant for a short period to design the data collection procedures and provide training to DA staff.
7.    TSC will be responsible for performance monitoring. Apart from the data to be provided by
Districts, it will be desirable to hire consultants from time to time to carry out simple independent
surveys of the quality of services being provided and whether there are operational problems with the
new facilities or services.
A.    Contracting and Financing of Operation and Maintenance for All Components
1.    Contracting for O&M services by DAs: timely solicitation of bids, awarding and
signing of contracts, and disbursement of payments to contractors.
2.    Ongoing funding of District O&M funds: current balance, level of disbursements,
level of replenishments from DAs and IDA (atter years 2, 3 and 4 only).
B.    Tax and Fee Collections
Level of revenue collected, as compared to that projected in the RIAPs, from:
1.    Markets
2.    Motor parks
3.    Waste management services



-168-
Annex 19
Page 5 of 5
4.    Public toilets
S.    Property rates
C. D2istrict Management
1.    Production of improved financial accounting reports
2.    Staff in post compared to approved establishment.
3.    Timely designation of counterpart staff for engineering, finance, and planning;
turnover in these positions.
D.    OualityfOperational Indicators
I.    Road and drain improvements: state of surfaces, existence of blockages in drains.
2.    Markets: satisfaction of users (traders and customers) with upgraded facilities;
cleanliness, drainage, circulation.
3.    Motor parks: satisfaction of users (drivers and passengers) with upgraded facilities;
time spent by vehicles entering and exiting, facility of circulation; number of vehicles
accommodated.
4.    Solid waste: degree of cooperation by residents in use of new services; effective use
of containers; timeliness of removal from collection points; number of loads of waste
collected per point and taken to disposal sites per daylweeklmonth (continuous
monitoring); degree of visible improvement in haphazard rubbish dumping; effective
management of landfill sites.
S.    Liquid waste: satisfaction of users with upgraded public toilets; cleanliness; number
of users per day/week; timely evacuation of public toilet pits; take up rate of domestic
toilet financing scheme; satisfaction of beneficiaries with domestic toilet scheme.



-169-                             Annex 20
Page 1 of 5
APUrULIc Of GHANA
LOCALF GOVERNN14T DEVELOPMET PROJECT (URBAN III)
"U=gER OF ICA;L GOVEJNTTr DMELOPNEI'OLWCY
The establishment of Ditrict ASsemblies in Ghana from 1988
commenced implementation of the policy of dece..tralization in the
country's public administration. Since then all efforts have been
geared towards pursuing a decentralization programme which would
see a devolution of power and authority with responsibilities for
a wide range of functions from Central Government Agencies to the
District Assemblies accompanied by the means to exercise those
responsibilities at the District or Local Level.   Hence, the
promulgation of the Local Government Law of 1988, PNDC Law 207.
With the promulgation of the Constitution of the 4th Republic of
Ghana in 1992, followed by the proclamation of the 4th Republic on
7th January, 1993, a draft Local Government Bill embodying
amendments to Law 207 has been drafted and has been placed before
Parliament.   In essence the Constitution retains the policy of
decentralization and vests Parliament with powers to promote it.
2.   In the  long term, the policy aims at ultimately  seeing
District Assemblies established as full fledged decentralized
Institutions with sufficient autonomy and adequate resources to
plan, manage and maintain service delivery, and carry out
consistent development in the districts. This implies developing
the capacity of District Assemblies to explore existing and
potential resources to aid operation and maintenance and
development.   It also means that District Assemblies  would
eventually be able to employ and maintain the services of required
staff, particularly professionals like Administrators, Accountants,
Planning  Officers,  Legal  Staff,  Doctors  and  Engineers  on
competitive termo.
3.   In this connection, a commitment has been made in the new
Local Government Act to establish a Local Government Service,
distinct and separate from the Civil service, as part of the Public
Service of Ghana. The Act also provides for the transfer of Civil
Service personnel currently working in the District Departments to
the Local Government Service when established.
4.   The main objective of the projected creation of the Local
Government Service is to implement the constitutional requirement
that " persons in the service of local government shall be subject
to the effective control of local authorities".



-170-                         Annex 20
Page 2 of 5
5.   It is planned to conduct a detailed study of the issues
that need to be addressed to ensure that the Local Government
Service will promote the autonomy of the District Assemblies,
Some of the issues to be examined in the study are:
i.  Conditions of service that will attract the right
calibre of personnel;
ii. Structure and organisation of the Service to ensure
effective management; and control of employees by
and   allegiance  to  the   individual   District
Assemblies;
iii. Affordability in terms of cost of establishing the
Service and also cost to each District Assembly;
iv. Funding arrangements;
v. Incentives by Individual Asaembliea to attract
personnel and the impact of auch arrangement on
recruitment  for  and  by  disadvantaged  District
Assemblies; and
vi. Practices and procedures that would promote
accountability  of  the  staff  to  the  District
Assemblies.
6.   Presently, however:
(a)  The  Civil  Service  Law,  1993,  PNDC  Law  327,  has
transferred 22 Decentralized Departments to the District
Assemblies. They are to cease to operate as line
Departments of ?4inistries and operate essentially as
Departments of the District Assemblies offering technical
and/or professional advice in their respective areas and
implementing policies of the District Assemblies.
In other words, they will constitute the bureaucratic
machinery through which decisions of the District
Assembly will be Implemented and programmes executed.
They will be responsible to the District Assemblies. The
District Assemblies may recruit required additional staff
through the Public services Commission to strengthen the
Departments.
(b)  District Assemblies will begin to assume responsibility
for planning functions (spatialI investment and economic)
in the District as aBsigned to them under the provisions
of the new Local Government Act and within the framework
of the proposed National Development Planning (System)
Act.   A National Development Planning Commission has
already been set up.
(C)  District   Assemblies   will   develop   and   manage
infrastructure and provide essential and needed services
to the Communities.



-171-                        Annex 20
Page 3 of 5
7.   The short term processes and o;WJectives outlined above can be
achieved in the 11 Project Districts with the support of the LGDP
(Urban III) in the following ways:
(i)  District Assemblies Capacity Building:
Thia will involve technical assistance, training and
equipment.   Planning and Budget personnel should be
equipped with the technical knowhow to enable them place
District  Planning  and  Development  in  the  right
perspective* Similarly support is needed for:
( a)   increased revenue generation and collection
(b) improved budgeting and financial management
(c) planning system development and
(d) strengthening of Tochnical Departments of
the progect Districts.
Hopefully the process can be replicated in other
Districts.
(ii) Rehabilitation and Improvement of urban infrastructure
and services. This will consist of:-
(a) rehabilitation of existing District capital
town center roads and associated drains and
traffic management measures
(b) upgrading of existing public markets and motor
parks; and
(c) improvements in solid waste collection and
disposal and in urban sanitation
B.  As far as responsibility of the various levels of government
are concerned the District Assemblies perform:
(a) administrative,  plannlng   and  development
functions at the District level; existing
legislation designates the District Assemblies
as the responsible authorities and assigns
powers for the purpose;
(b)  traditional   or   known   local   authority
functions;  and  transferred   functions  of
Central Government.
These are constituted by the functions of the Decentralized
Departments. Existing legislation specify 86 additional functions
for the District Assemblies. The Sub-District structures of Urban,
Town, Area and zonal councils and Unit Committees will carry
decentralization further down to the very local levels and perform
some stated functiona as well as some assigned functions from the
District Assemblies. In all these, the Metropolitan/Municipal and
District Assemblies should be seen as the highest administrative,
planning and development authorities in their respective areas, to



-172-                        Annex 20
Page 4 of 5
whom all levels of authority in the metropoles/ municipalities and
Districts are responsible.
9.   Considering the fact that District Assemblies are incapable of
carrying out their assigned functions all alone owing to several
factors, including financial constraints, the Constitution provides
for safeguards in inter governmental financial relations. There Is
a specific provision for the establishment of a District Assemblies
Common Fund into which not leos than 5% of total national revenue
is required to be paid for disbursement to the District Assemblies
for development purposes. The Common Fund has been established and
its  Administrator  appointed.   The  fund  is  expected  to  be
operational effective from January 1, 1994.
10. Allocations to the Common Fund will be haaed on revenues
accruing to the Central Government other tha.a foreign loans,
grants, non-tax revenues and revenues already collected by or for
District Assemblies under any national enactment in force. The Act
also provides for Central Government and/or any bodies or persons
to make grants-in-aid to any District Assembly. With these
provisions, District Assemblies will continue to collect their
local  fees  and  rates.  Central  Government  Revenues  ceded  by
legislation to the District Assemblies and collected centrally by
the Internal Revenue Service on their behalf and shared to the
Assemblies by the Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development are protected for the District Assemblies and will
continue to be disbursed as additional resources to receipts from
the Common Fund.
11. The formula for sharing the Common Fund, to be approved by
Parliament, will however take account of the development status and
the level of local contributions to funding of developments related
to the functions of the District Assembly. District Assemblies will
have discretion to select projects to be funded with their Fund
allocations, on  the basis of district priorities within broad
national policy guidelines. This is to ensure that there are no
disincentives for local revenue collection. Allocations from the
Common Fund shall be used for development and not for recurrent
costs such as salaries and allowances.
12. External Funds in the form of credits and grants are not
specifically provided for in the Act but under existing
arrangements, Government may make such funds available to any
District Assembly (e.g. IDA supported Urban *. Project and the
Urban III Project) to support the District Assemblies and promote
the decentralization process.
13. It is recognised, however, that it is necessary to improve
management at the local level through some incentive measures.
Staff of the right calibre, qualification and experience should be
secured in the first place. For such staff to be willing to ofier
their services In the District Assemblies,  the latter must be



-173-
Annex 20
Page 5 of 5
capable of ongaging them on competitive conditions of service with
regard to salary, career progression and security of tenure. An
important option which is being considered, for A start, in the
transfer of funds from the consolidated fund to cover the salary
payments  of  some  specified  staff  and  require  the  District
Assemblies to rationalise their staff establishments and prepare
them to assume greater reaponsibility in the engagement and
retention of staff In due course. Within the framework of the
Civil Service Reform Programme,   there is scope for improved
personnel management.
14. It is hoped that when Urban III gets underway with the agreed
support, It will set the pace for urban infrastructural development
and   operation   and  maintenance  of  services   in  District
Assemblies.
MIIIXTER
(KVAMENA ABWOI)
vD1CEMBR, 1993
ACCRA,r GHR



-174-                              Annex 21
Page r of 2
RE   BLIC Qf GHANA
LOCAL QO'V&HbnMN DEVELOPMNTl fROIECT JURBAN IIln
Approxime Date        Activity              Expected Skill          Staff Weeks
Requiroments
9.194   -            Project Launch        Task Manager            2
Workshop             Civil Engineer          2
Urban Planner          2
Procurement Spec.       2
Disbursement Spec.      2
2J95                  Supervision Missikn   Task Manager            2
Civil Engineer         2
Training Specialist     2
6195                  Annual Review         Task Manager            2
Civil Engineer          2
Monitoring/Beneficiary
Assesment Speciallst   2
Urban Planner           2
10195                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager           2
Civil Erngineer        2
Rating/Valuation
Specialist             2
2J96                  Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
Civil Enginear         2
Waste Management
Spscialist             2
6/96                  Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
Civil Engineer         2
Sanitation Speciilist  2
10196                 Supervisioa Mission   Task Manager           2
Civil Engineer
2/91                   (MW-Term Review)  Task Manager               2
(no latr than 12/97    Civil Engineer        2
specified In CA)     Management/Training
specialist             2
Planner                 2
Boneflciary Assesment   2
6/97                  Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
Civil Engineer         2



Annex 21
-175-                              Page 2 of 2
10/97                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager             2
Civil Engineer          2
Rating Valuation
Specialist              2
2198                   Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
__________________ _________________ Clvl Engineer                    2
6/98                   Annual Review        Task Manager             2
Civil Engineer          2
Urban Planner           2
1098                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager             2
Civil Engineer          1
hSnitation SpOcialiSt   2
2/99                   Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
Civil Enginr            I
6/99                   Annual Review        Task Manager             2
Clvil Engine            2
Urban Planner           2
10/99                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager             2
___________________    __________________    Civil Engineer          I
2/2000                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
Civil Engineer          I
6/2000                 Annual Review        Task Manager             2
Civil Enginer           2
Managemnt/Training
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S pei ais8 t  2
10/2000               Suprvision Mission   Task Mwnger               2
Civil Enginee 
2/2001                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager            2
civi  nginw             1
6/2001                 Project Completion    Task Manager            2
Workshop             Civil Engineer,          2
Urban Planner           2
Management/Trainlng
,_______________  specialist           2



REPUBUC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
DOURAW   UR           tee,          t*               te e:   1        ie               see             i.e       '       eee           2000         2-2001
4t ~ ~   II I                                                -ITT,||||l                , Il                 I, lllT                r
ULOAN                               r1t  a 0 o IT       _        P    R    0    2 i               T   3                 IY  a A-     R        a             
~~_                                                                                                                     mw___
"arms
S. ROWd 4h ODwVM* Plibtmdmt cw
b. RedW nd drhe Rd  SMM) ad
-~ -- -u mmm                                                                                                             0 _ 
Mok_                                                                  __O"                            _          _f tK
0 b&i*  M.k4ane.    Lee)-
fflticpp&_~UerACC.)
IL Wmoe MetueMuff 104fiuttehdde IC)
44 P0A  ctampe   Vcktrtce Cctlagu
T,oneamrr.om. tnpowicd
b_. TA                                                                                                                       ,. O_,_
8 PWAMu t Ivend  PEA4  MoValVdeI)
c. TAC*mptwt Pcte 01 I
* TA Otice Fu_*" CLSC)
44 p   eSterfw ti_. 4 PAM"* officee)                                                                        IUf                                                                    t
TA Micedeme glo.p"i                                                                                                 I0 AAY
*i .qiomu A nwe                                                                                                     KEY _pOjecr _ATES
COISiULTANcS A enSO COITRAC
T atc Tn  T                         _     _      _
s _____                                            -  miwlS  affi   __                                          _                                      --                 -



-177-
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LOCAL GOVERMNT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents available in the Project File
1)    "Preparation of Development Plans and Infrastrucure Programs in Selected Towns - Final
Report', the Consortium (CIHSD), August 1993
2) -Legal Aspects of the Rating System in Ghana - A Background Note', Paul Sanderson, June
1993
3)    "The Land Valuation Board - A Background Note", Paul Sanderson, June 1993
4)     "Mapping and Land Infomation Management in Support of the Ghana Local Governent
Developmen Project", J. Leatherdale, May 1993
5)     'Outline Strategy for Mapping of Ten Towns", J. Leatherdale, May 1993
6)    -Technical Specifications for Aerial Photography of Ten Towns", J. Leatherdale, May 1993
7)    Economic Analysis Tables for Individual Subprojects, H. Garzon, July 1993
8)    Confirmation of Project Components by Beneficiary District Assemblies, June 1993
9)    Letter of Local Govermment Development Policy, MLGRD (forthcoming)
10) ' Civil Service Law PNDCL 327, 1993
11)   Local Government Bill, 1993
12)   District Assemblies Common Fund Bill, 1993



ISRD 25191
3'BURKlINA  FASO                                                                    G H A N 
Nsvron/ goo   flngO 7    tsI    f   LOCAL GOVERNMENT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
U KXGAW E_ f~      ofidOfLocation of Project Towns
WA PROJECT TOWNS
WEST                               X                              \- PZW ROADS
o OIsoNCTcAmrALS
t     \               2          |     D;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SThCT SOUNOARIES
X#A   J                t               /          lv -ecilsNw~~~~~~~~mmc guNuse0
10=   \       #                     [              /            S  _ Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERKA:noNAL  0
>   __                                    (       Gi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ushieguV  <t OUNDMRES
A.                                                                                                       0  .l* 
Sabc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
J    /        ~NORTHERN   / >o 
.r   t_    ;              O~~~~~~~Dormngo                          - 
c6TE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETJDR19
k~~~~~~~~~~O. Do..                                 imD
s    /                KintompoO/                              o>_>Nkoe
/,/Berskn          v,
t~~~~                        Agog_\< 4teju                               Jskf 
)o    WN\  7 \A S H A I^ T I                                         TOGO
\  Juobew  <   >       )    i       gTER             _       ^'J           OLT
6'~~~~~~~~~ \                   0 _;   u E               uuvfkoog,/               9 
-f_    ' W E S T E R ,  > 8 +   o  moA) s     v   0, 00%DAA      C Mid..
0                           T  . > ALu     jm              CR
}  s-    x  .    4  \DUt6-eo \  > Xo n O              0   10O 2p St   4?  5   60
~~~~~~Ths wop fws VinpepadbyTo
5*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 COM                                        ,* for OmowanmO
i ~~~~~~~~~~~GULF Of GUINEA i*- 
SEPrEMBER IM9



