CREDIT NUMBER 2568 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Local Government Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2568 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   vt  .     (o     , 1994, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated December 18,
1993, its policies and objectives designed to improve local
government in its territories (the Statement of Local Government
Policy); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit   Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "District" means, in the case of each District Assembly,
the jurisdictional area pertaining to such District Assembly;
(b)   "District Assembly" means each of the eleven District
Assemblies participating in the Project, established in accordance
with chapter twenty of the Constitution of the Republic of Ghana,
1992, and being Sunyani District Assembly, Ho District Assembly,
Keta Listrict Assembly, New Juaben Municipal Assembly, Agona
District Assembly, Wa District Assembly, Cape Coast Municipal
Assembly, Komenda-Edina-Eguafo-Abirem District Assembly, Bolgatanga


﻿- 2 -
District Assembly, Bawku East District Assembly and Techiman
District Assembly;
(c)   "District Assembly Accounts" means the accounts referred
to in Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)   "MLGRD"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of   Local
Government and Rural Development;
(e)   "MWH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Housing;
(f)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 19, 1993 and
November 5, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)   "Project Town" means any of the following eleven towns:
Bawku, Bolgatanga, Wa, Techiman, Sunyani, Ho, Koforidua, Agona-
Swedru, Keta/Anloga, Cape Coast and Elmina.
(h)   "Revenue Improvement Action Plan" means each seven-year
plan prepared and approved by each District Assembly setting forth
a detailed timetable of actions and targets for increasing revenues;
(i)   "TSC" means the Technical Services Center within MWH;
and
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-seven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿- 3 -
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such


﻿- 4-
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15,
commencing July 15, 2004 and ending January 15, 2034.        Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5 -
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and with regard
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual budget in
each year of the Project amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project and transfer the same to
MLGRD; (ii) open and maintain in cedis in a commercial bank a
project account (the Project Account), on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, in the name of MLGRD to be used by
MLGRD exclusively for the purposes of the Project; (iii) deposit
into the Project Account (A) an initial amount of $100,000
equivalent, and (B) the remaining part of its counterpart
contributions, quarterly in advance, in the amounts determined by
the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall: (i) open and maintain in cedis in a
commercial bank in each District a District Assembly Account (the
District Assembly Accounts), on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, in each case, in the name of the District Assembly
for which it is established, to be used by such District Assembly
exclusively for the purposes of the portion of the Project to be
carried out by such District Assembly; and (ii) deposit into each
District Assembly Account (A) one initial amount of $5,000
equivalent, and (B) the remaining part of its contribution to the
financing of the portion of the Project to be carried out within
such District Assembly, quarterly in advance, in the amounts
determined by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required


﻿- 6 -
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) In each quarter, TSC shall prepare a
quarterly progress report, comparing actual and forecast progress
and evaluating such progress against project monitoring indicators
agreed with the Borrower and the Association including, inter alia,
standard agreed performance indicators monitoring the physical,
financial and operational progress and performance of all components
of the Project, and shall provide such quarterly progress report to
the Borrower and the Association no later than forty-five days after
each such quarter; and
(b)   by no later than August 31 in each year, representatives
of ML,GRD, the Ministry of Finance, MWH, TSC, each District Assembly
and the Association shall meet to review the progress made in
respect of Project implementation including, without limitation,
physical implementation, municipal finance and institutional
objectives during the preceding year, such review to be based on the
quarterly progress reports referred to in (a) above and monitoring
and performance indicators agreed by the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by no later than December
31, 1997, carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review of
the project to assess and, if necessary, make recommendations on
changes or remedial actions concerning the Project's components,
implementation arrangements or financing arrangements, including
specifically,   inter  alia,   (a)  the   progress  of   physical
implementation of the infrastructure improvements under Parts A, B
and C of the Project; (b) the timeliness and efficiency of
procurement of works and goods and engagement of consultancy
services; (c) the effectiveness and impact of the institutional
strengthening provided under Part D of the Project; (d) the
management of the training provided under Part D of the Project and
its effectiveness; (e) the extent to which each District Assembly is
implemeuting its Revenue Improvement Action Plan and any problems
being experienced in connection with revenue mobilization by such
District Assembly; (f) the provision of household sanitation
facilities under Part C.2 of the Project; (g) the extent to which
the engagement of a municipal engineer, finance officer and
personnel officer by each District Assembly, in accordance with
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, has been facilitated by the
Borrower and implemented by each District Assembly; (h) the progress
and impact of the policy review of District Assembly revenues; (i)


﻿- 7 -
the extent to which each District Assembly is meeting its obligation
to contribute agreed shares of the projected operation and
maintenance costs to its operations and maintenance fund pursuant to
Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and (j) the extent to which private
sector contracting of operation and maintenance required by the
Project is being carried out.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the
Association, at least thirty days prior to the review described in
paragraph (i) above, for its review and comments, such information
and data on the items listed in such paragraph as the Association
shall request; and (ii) promptly thereafter carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the recommendations of the midterm review in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. In each year of the Project, each District
Assembly shall:
(i)    implement its agreed Revenue Improvement Action
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association, and, to the extent the
Association   shall   consider   necessary   or
desirable, the Borrower and the Association and
each respective District Assembly in each year
shall review such District Assembly's Revenue
Improvement Action Plan and agree to such
changes to each such Revenue Improvement Action
Plan as shall be necessary for the purposes of
carrying out the Project; and
(ii)   prepare, by no later than July 1, an annual
training plan in respect of the training to be
provided   under  Part   D   of  the   Project,
satisfactory to the Association, and implement
the same.
Section 3.07. (a) By no later than one year from the Effective
Date, each District Assembly shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, the positions of municipal engineer, finance officer and
personnel officer to head each District Assembly's Department of
Works and Finance and the Personnel Unit in each District Assembly's
Department of General Administration, respectively, and thereafter
each District Assembly shall recruit officers to fill such positions
on three-year renewable contracts, each under terms of reference and
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 8 -
The aforementioned positions shall be financed jointly by the
Borrower and the District Assemblies. Each year the Borrower and the
District.Assemblies shall ensure that sufficient funds are budgeted
to maintain these positions.
(b)   Each District Assembly shall maintain the position of
Project coordinator for the duration of the Project and retain a
Project coordinator to fill such position, each under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. By no later than one year from the Effective
Date, MLGRD shall engage consultants to: (i) provide technical
assistance to the District Assemblies for (a) municipal engineering,
(b) financial management, and (c) planning and implementation; (ii)
support the TSC in accountancy and in establishing a management
information system; (iii) coordinate the overall technical
assistance provided under the Project; (iv) assist the Borrower's
land valuation board in data processing; and (v) assist the
Department of Town and Country Planning within MLGRD with land use
planning and development guidance.
Section 3.09. Each District Assembly shall establish, not
later than 12 months after the Effective Date, and shall maintain,
throughout the duration of the Project, a fund for operation and
maintenance costs incurred in respect of the Project and, in each
year, shall contribute such funding as, in the opinion of the
Borrower and the Association, shall be necessary to meet anticipated
operation and maintenance costs for the following year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those


﻿-9-
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other    documents)   evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such    records  and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal


﻿- 10 -
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Statement of Local Government Policy, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has established the Project Account and has
deposited into the Project Account an initial amount of $100,000
equivalent pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower has established all eleven of the District
Assembly Accounts to facilitate the carrying out of the Project and
has deposited into each such account an initial amount of $5,000
equivalent pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)    each District Assembly has ratified and adopted a
Revenue Improvement Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, to
be carried out by such District Assembly under the Project;
(d)   each District Assembly has prepared an annual training
plan for the first year of implementation of the Project,
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)   the Borrower has prepared bid packages, satisfactory to
the Association, for the civil works agreed upon with the
Association and required under Parts A, B and C of the Project; and
(f)   no less than six District Assemblies shall have acquired
the land necessary for the portion of Part C of the Project to be


﻿- 11 -
carried out by such District Assemblies and shall have provided
evidence satisfactory to the Association of such acquisition.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                 Telex:
ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed -in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
uthorized RepresenAtive
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BykL/ Z  Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(a)   Waste Management   2,570,000
under Part C
(b)   Roads and Drainage 9,560,000
under Part A
(2) Goods                     4,760,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(3) Technical                 4,160,000        100%
Assistance


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Operating Costs             960,000        50% of expendi-
tures until
December 31, 1998;
30% of expendi-
tures thereafter
(5) Refunding of                720,000
Project Prepara-
tion Advance
(6) Unallocated               4,970,000
TOTAL                    27,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Operating Costs" means expenditures made in
respect of maintenance of drains, roads and sanitation facilities,
operation of refuse collection and waste disposal sites and
maintenance of vehicles used for the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) Category 1
(a) for expenditures incurred for Part C of the Project, for
establishment of landfill sites and liquid waste disposal sites or
construction of new sanitation facilities until a District Assembly
has provided evidence, satisfactory to the Association, regarding


﻿- 15 -
its ownership of the land required f or its portion of Part C of the
Project.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under (i) contracts for works not exceeding $200,000;
and (ii) contracts for goods and services not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its program of: (a) rehabilitation and upgrading of
urban   infrastructure  and   services;   and   (b)  institutional
strengthening and building of urban management capacity through
decentralization.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rehabilitation and Improvement of Roads and Drainage
1.    Rehabilitation of approximately 77 km of existing key town
center roads and roadside drainage in Project Towns.
2.    Improvement of traffic management in the Project Towns
through, inter alia, installation of traffic signs and intersection
improvements.
Part B:     Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Markets and Lorry Parks
Provision of paving, drainage, water standpipes, sanitation
and washing facilities, security lighting and structures in the
major markets and lorry parks of the Project Towns.
Part C:     Waste Management
1.    Establishment of landfill sites, fencing of refuse collection
points, and provision of containers, tractors and other equipment
for the management of solid waste.
2.    Establishment of liquid waste disposal sites in the Project
Towns, construction of new, and renovation of existing, sanitation
facilities (including underground sewerage holding tanks), extension
of water and electric services thereto, the acquisition of cesspit
emptiers  and   construction  of   on-site  household   sanitation
facilities.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    The provision of technical assistance and training, and
acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehicles, to strengthen
the capacity of the participating District Assemblies to plan,
finance and manage urban services in a manner consistent with the
Borrower's overall economic reform program, including, without
limitation,  support   for:   (a)  increasing  district   revenue
collections; (b) improving budgeting and financial management; (c)
planning system development; and (d) strengthening the technical
departments of the District Assemblies.
2.    The provision of technical assistance and training to, and the
acquisition of vehicles and equipment (including computers) for,
selected central agencies of the Borrower to strengthen the
agencies' capacity to provide support and assistance to District
Assemblies, including: (a) the Land Valuation Board within the
Ministry of Finance for revaluation of properties in the District
Assemblies; (b) the Survey Department within the Ministry of Lands
and Forestry for the preparation of maps for use in planning; (c)
the Town and Country Planning Department within MLGRD for assisting
District Assemblies to prepare structure plans and improve
development guidance and control; and (d) TSC to coordinate, monitor
and manage the reporting, procurement, contract management,
coordination and accounting functions for MLGRD and the District
Assemblies under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such
an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
3.    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
4.    Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $16,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $430,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Spare parts and accessories for vehicles and equipment up to
an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent may be purchased from
original manufacturers or suppliers or their authorized agents.
Part E:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 20 -
(c)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding two paragraphs, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (c) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants' Guidelines).
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank with such modifications
as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the :aik, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to such prior
review or approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals,
to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments
of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 22 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount of   the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 23 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


