Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13417
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
AUGUST 2, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00 - Y 2.80 (January 1985)
$1.80 - Y 5.48 (December 1993)
$1.00 - Y 8.60 (June 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 British Thermal Unit (BTU) - 0.252 kilocalories
1 cubic meter (m3) -  35.315 cubic feet
I Gigawatt hour (GWh) -  1,000,000 kilowatt hours
1 kilocalorie (kcal)  -  3.97 British Thermal Units
1 kilocalorie per kologram (kcal/kg) -  1.805 British Thermal Units per pound
1 kilogram of coal equivalent (kgce) - 0.64 kilogram of oil equivalent
1 kilometer (km) - 0.621 mile
1 kilovolt (kV) -  1,000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW) -  1,000 watts
1 MVA  -  1,000 kilo volt ampere
1 Megawatt (MW)  -  1,000 KILOWATTS
1 meter (m) -  3.281 feet
1 square kilometer (kin2) - 247.1 acre or 0.3861 square mile
1 square meter (m2) -  10.764 square feet
1 ton (t) -  1,000 kilogram or 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
CIC     Coal Industry Corporation
CNCC    China National Coal Corporation
CNCDC   China National Coal Development Corporation
CNTIC   China National Technical Import Corporation
GOC      Govemment of China
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ITC     International Tendering Corporation
MOCI   Ministry of Coal Industries
mtpy    million tons per year
UNDP    United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project (Loan 2501-CIA)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on China - Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining
Project (Loan 2501-CHA)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Region. Part II was prepared by
the executing agency of the Borrower.
The US$126 million loan approved on March 14, 1985, was to help develop a large scale, high
technology coal mine. The loan was closed 18 months behind schedule and $51.1 million was
cancelled.
Various reasons combined to delay the commissioning of the mine: a geological accident, the
bankruptcy of the main foreign contractor, and the inexperience of the implementing agency with
construction projects of this scale. Despite lower project costs, the substantial delay in project
implementation (the mine is not yet commissioned) will curtail the economic rate of return and even
more the financial rate of return. Lack of experience with modern project scheduling and monitoring
practices impeded the development of the mining company. Tight bureaucratic controls added delays.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the implementation delays and appropriately notes
the Bank's excessively optimistic assessment of implementing agency capabilities. Overall, the project
is rated as marginally satisfactory, its sustainability as likely once the mine starts producing coal by end
1994, and its institutional impact as modest.
The project will be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMDPLETION REPORT
CBINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MN1ING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
CONTENTS
Preface ............................................
Evaluation Summary  ....................................    ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity.                                                                 1
Background.                                                                       1
Project Objectives and Description.                                               2
Project Design and Organization .........            ..................   3
Project Implementation  .............             ...................   3
Project Results ...................................... 6
Project Sustainability .    .................................   8
Bank Performance .................................... 8
Borrower Performance .................................. 10
Project Relationship  .     .................................  11
Consulting Services  .................................. 11
Project Documentation and Data .........             ..................  12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .... ..  13
March 14, 1994 Facsimile
Introduction  ....................................                               14
Luan CIC's Performance ................................ 15
The Uncontrolled Main Contractor of Construction ....           .......  15
The Unforeseen Geological Issue .......            ...............  15
The Lack of Construction Management Experience ....             .......  15
The Bankruptcy of Main Supplier for Service Shaft Equipment  . ..  15
The Interference from Authorities of Upper Levels ....          .......  16
The World Banks Performance  ...........               ................  16



Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual in Part III   .......  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   18
Comments on the Analysis by the Bank in Part I  ..... .                          .  .  .  .  .     .   18
Comments on the Analysis by the Bank in Part I ......  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   18
Evaluation of Bank's Performance   ........  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   18
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance   .......  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   18
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ........  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   20
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  .........  .                        .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .     .   20
Project Timetable  ...................  ....  ....  ...  ....  .                                        .   20
Loan Disbursements  ................  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                                        .   20
Project Completion  .................  ....  ...  ...  ....  ...                                         .   21
Project Costs and Financing   ..........                          . ..............  .             ..     .   22
A.  Project Costs   ............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                              .   22
B.  Project Financing  ...........  ..  .                     ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .  ..     .   22
Project Results   ..............                         ......................                         .   23
A.  Direct Results  ............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                              .   23
B.  Economic Impact  ...........  ..  .                       ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .  ..     .   24
C.  Financial Impact   ...........  ..  .                     ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .  ..     .   24
Status of Covenants   ............                          . ....................                       .   25
Use of Bank Resources   ...........                           . ..................  .                   .   27
A.  Staff Inputs   ..............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  .                             .   27
B.  Missions   ................  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                                    .   28



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MNING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Changcun (Luan) Coal
Mining Project for which Loan 2501-CHA in the amount of $126 million was approved
on March 14, 1985. The project loan was closed on December 31, 1993, 18 months
behind schedule. The last disbursement was on May 4, 1994 and $4.6 million was
cancelled (in addition to the cancellations of $5.5 and 41.0 million in 1987 and 1990
respectively) at that time.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Mining Division, Finance and
Private Sector Development Vice Presidency (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
IE), on behalf of the Industry and Energy Operations Division, East Asia Country
Department II, and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started following loan closure and completed
during the Bank's final supervision/PCR mission in May 1994, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and intemal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MNING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
i.          The key objective of the Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project was to assist
the government of China to develop a large scale, high technology coal mine that would
provide a model for such development, as well as to contribute to the government's plan
to double coal production over the 1980-2000 period (para. 3. 1).
Implementation Experience
ii.         Project implementation was beset by delays, compounded by organizational
deficiencies, with the result that at the time of loan closing, project construction was 4
years behind schedule and remained to be completed.  Arrangements for project
organization and control were ineffective (paras. 5.1-5.2). Construction management
deficiencies were almost continuous and attempts to introduce international project
scheduling and monitoring practices were not successful (para. 5.3). These deficiencies
were compounded by poor performance and accountability of government-appointed
construction contractors (para. 5.3), by initial delays in the provision of local funds (para.
5.4), and by slow and cumbersome equipment procurement procedures and inadequate
attention and support to complete procurement expeditiously (para. 5.5). Serious delays
(totalling 30 months) occurred during mine shaft construction; initially when unforeseen
heavily saturated ground was encountered during shaft sinking, necessitating shaft freezing
techniques, and subsequently with the declaration of bankruptcy by the lead foreign
supplier of the international consortium responsible for the supply, erection and
commissioning of the service shaft (para. 5.6).  As a result, underground mine
development was slower than anticipated and the schedule for initial coal operations was
delayed.
Project Results
iii.        Project construction remains to be completed and initial coal operations are
yet to commence. First coal movement is now scheduled in late-1994, with rated (4.5
million ton coal per year) production forecast in 1998, over three years behind the original
schedule. Project costs were substantially lower than anticipated (para. 6.2) and local coal
prices are now at a higher level than forecast due to recent price liberalization in the coal



- iii -
sector (paras. 6.3 and 6.4). Moreover, international coal prices (and thus China FOB
export prices) have not developed as forecast at appraisal and economic distortions have
been reduced. These factors, together with the impact of implementation delays and higher
than anticipated operating costs, translate into reduced financial and economic benefits
(para. 6.3). However, the project has had a very positive impact on the technological
environment (para. 6.5), one of the key project objectives.
Project Sustainability
iv.         On the basis that the Borrower's primary experience is in the successful
operation (as opposed to construction) of longwall coal mine operations, it is considered
that, following completion of project construction, coal production buildup can be
developed as planned and full coal output can be maintained (para. 7.1). However,
funding for the completion of construction is an issue during the present transitionary
reform period. In addition, rail transport capacity for the movement of coal out of the
project area has become a serious bottleneck. An Action Plan in this respect remains to
be developed and is critical to ensure the effective distribution and marketing of project
coal production (para. 7.2). Any delays in these respects would impact the completion of
construction and initial coal production and would undermine project benefits (para. 7.3).
Fnmdings and Lessons Learned
V.          Development of the large-scale, high technology Changcun underground coal
mine has proved to be a difficult task for the implementing agency whose experience lies
predominantly in operations as opposed to construction. Although ultimately, physical
objectives can be reached, project benefits will be reduced. While the economic benefit
can be considered acceptable, financial benefits are likely to be minimal at best and, given
the high level of debt financing, could negatively impact the overall corporate financial
position of Luan CIC, the implementing agency.
vi.         The importance of a clearly understood and workable organization and
management structure within the subsector and at project level, that focuses on effective
management control of contractors and on project scheduling and monitoring, cannot be
overemphasized (paras. 8.2 and 9.1). The assumption of project ownership by the
implementing agency is critical to successful implementation (para. 9.1). Care must be
taken in formulating technical assistance and training programs to ensure that the concepts,
objectives, and scopes of work, are clearly understood and accepted by all parties (para.
9.3 and 9.4). Well planned and staffed Bank supervision efforts, encompassing periodic
development impact assessments, would contribute to a focus on project implementation
issues, projected benefits, and follow-up actions necessary to better ensure successful
project completion (para. 8.3).
vii.        Although there are minor differences between the Bank and the Borrower
in terms of focus on project organization and management, and implementation issues, (and
the Borrower has yet to complete a comprehensive Part II that addresses all project
implementation issues, findings and lessons to be learnt), there is broad agreement on the
definition and analysis of issues, and on the presentation and content in Part I.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name        Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project
Loan No.            2501-CHA
RVP Unit            East Asia
Country             China
Sector              Energy
Subsector      :   Coal
2.    Background
2.1         During the early 1980s, after China joined the World Bank group, the
Bank's appreciation of the importance of the energy sector in the overall country economy
became clear. It was established during early sector initiatives that (a) China was well
endowed with primary energy resources (particularly coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and
hydropower); (b) coal was the backbone of the country's energy sector, providing over 70
percent of commercial energy consumption; (c) China's coal production was one of the
largest worldwide, second only to the USA in the early-1980s; and (d) China's coal
resources (640 billion tons) were the largest worldwide.
2.2         The demand for coal through the year 2000 was seen as strong due to the
pace of general economic development. Although energy savings were apparent as a result
of conservation and a shift from heavy to light industries, a doubling of coal production
was considered a realistic and achievable target. The country's target production was
recognized as one that would facilitate coal maintaining its share of total commercial
energy production. Key sector development constraints identified included shortage of
investment funds for new coal mine development, the need for improved project design and
management, a government regulated coal distribution system, and nonremunerative coal
pricing policies.
2.3         To ease energy shortages which government identified as a potentially
serious constraint to China's economic growth, high priority was placed on boosting the
production from primary energy resources. Earlier Bank support had been provided to oil



- 2 -
and power sectors. To enable the coal industry to double its production by the year 2000,
a series of coal projects were formulated and it was recognized that a development
program of large coal mines utilizing modem technology was critical. The Changcun
project was seen as a demonstration model which would not only contribute to the large
coal production target but which would provide also a model for fully integrated, highly
mechanized coal mine operation that had previously not been attempted in China. The
project was seen also as an opportunity to provide access for Chinese coal industry
specialists to international technology, mine planning and design, and project and
construction management.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The key project objective was to develop a large scale, high technology coal
mine that could provide a model for such development, as well as to contribute to the
government's plan to double coal production over the 1980-2000 period. Specific project
objectives were:
(a)   to increase coal production by about 4.5 mtpy by the early
1990s, thereby helping to meet China's demand for coal;
(b)   to transfer technology in mine design, engineering, and
construction, specifically the highly productive mechanized
longwall exploitation technique;
(c)  to introduce modern coal preparation technology which would
facilitate improvements in the quality of coal provided to
quality discriminating consumers and encourage economic use
of middling and fine coal in nearby power plants; and
(d)   to foster improved management techniques for project
scheduling, monitoring and cost control, thereby reducing
construction time and costs.
3.2         Key components of the project were:
(a)   construction and provision of equipment for an underground
mine with a design capacity of 4 mtpy (actual capacity of 4.5
mtpy) consisting of three vertical shafts, 48 km. underground
roadways, and five fully mechanized longwall faces;
(b)   construction and provision of equipment for a surface coal
handling plant and a coal washery with a throughput capacity
of 2 mtpy of sized coal;



- 3 -
(c)   provision of surface infrastructure including a railway spur
line, electrical substation, water supply lines, workshops,
warehouses, offices, housing, a hospital and schools;
(d)   technical  assistance  in  project  management,  design
engineering and procurement; and
(e)   training both abroad and by foreign experts in China in
modem mining techniques, management and procurement,
and the establishment of mine training centers.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         The conceptual foundation for the project design was developed during
prefeasibility and feasibility study investigations and, in principle, was clearly understood
and accepted by all parties. The project scope and scale was appropriate in the light of the
government objective of doubling the country's coal production over the 1980-2000 period.
During feasibility considerations, preliminary plans were to produce coal from 8 longwall
faces, 5 of which would be fully mechanized and the remainder equipped on a more
conventional basis.  However, during project appraisal, Bank staff pointed out that
longwall faces dimensioned according to western standards could produce the requisite coal
output from 5 mechanized and 1 conventional unit (during the early stages of project
implementation, Bank staff highlighted that with redesigned longwall faces; actually five
longwall faces could generate target coal production; thereby reducing development time
and investment requirements). Agreement to these revised specifications was reached
during postappraisal; however, the development of detailed specifications during the early
years of project implementation became a serious difficulty for Chinese counterparts. In
fact, mine planning and design, detailed engineering, and the preparation of technical
specifications for the main mining equipment packages had to be assigned to foreign
consultants. The difficulties faced by the local agencies in this respect caused procurement
difficulties and project delay (para. 5.5). This underscores the importance of ensuring at
or prior to appraisal, that project design parameters are agreed and clearly understood.
4.2         The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies responsible for
project construction and procurement were considered to be well defined at appraisal. This
proved not to be the case and institutional, and organization and management issues
seriously impacted project implementation (para. 5.2). In retrospect and although other
project implementation issues arose, it was the confused, overlapping and poorly defined
roles and responsibilities of the concerned institutions and agencies that contributed most
to the failure of the project to meet its schedule.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         The  most notable  variance  between  actual and  planned  project
implementation was, and remained at loan closing, the progressive accumulation of project
delays. Project implementation issues were many and varied, and dogged the project from



- 4 -
the outset of implementation and throughout the construction period.  The key
implementation issues contributing to project slippage included:
(a)   serious deficiencies in project organization and management;
(b)   serious deficiencies in construction management, scheduling, monitoring and
cost control;
(c)   delays in the appointment of construction management consultants and
dilution of the consultant scope of work;
(d)   poor performance of MOCI (Ministry of Coal Industries) appointed
contractors;
(e)   inadequate provision of local funds;
(f)   cumbersome procurement arrangements and a lack of commitment to
complete procurement in a timely manner;
(g)   inadequate ground investigations for shaft sinking;
(h)   bankruptcy of the lead supplier of the international consortium for service
shaft equipment supply, headframe design, erection, and commissioning;
(i)   protracted negotiations with cofinancing agencies; and
(j)   inadequate project reporting.
5.2         A more careful Bank review and understanding of traditional project
implementation (construction and operations) practices in China could have lead to
improved project organization and management arrangements and therefore, improved
project results (para. 8.2). A more careful appraisal of Luan CIC's limited construction
management experience, and a more candid dialogue during loan negotiations, might have
led to workable construction management, scheduling, monitoring and cost control
arrangements. Project construction was plagued by (a) the bureaucratic structure of MOCI
and its lack of overall control of the project; (b) the lack of accountability of construction
contractors appointed by MOCI to Luan CIC; and (c) the inability by Luan CIC to assume
the role of project owner and to assert control over the MOCI-appointed construction
contractors. This position was exacerbated by the dissolution of MOCI in the late 1980s
and the creation of the China National Coal Company (CNCC) with a much restricted, and
essentially policy-based, role. Construction management tools to effectively control project
scheduling, monitoring and costs were not well understood or applied seriously by Chinese
counterparts until immediately prior to loan closing. At that time the first meaningful
project master schedule was completed and the importance and benefits of international
project management control tools were understood.



- 5 -
5.3         Serious delays occurred in the appointment of project management
consultants at the start of project implementation, underscoring the inadequate organization
and management arrangements for project implementation. Indeed, dilution of the
consultant's scope of work occurred during the extended period of negotiations; further
indicating the lack of understanding of the benefits of international construction
management tools. Project implementation was plagued by the poor performance of
MOCI-appointed contractors, specifically those involved in underground development
works and shaft installation. These contractors failed continuously to provide necessary
physical, human and financial resources to the project site and, for the most part, were
indifferent to the impact of their poor performance on the accumulation of time and cost
overruns. Luan CIC and MOCI displayed also a lack of understanding and an indifference
to the impact of poor contractor performance on the project schedule and the benefits to
accrue to the coal industry.
5.4         At the start of project implementation, inadequate local funds were
provided by government due in part to (a) delays in Board presentation (and thus
uncertainty about Bank participation in the project) associated primarily with the extended
Bank/government dialogue relating to the government's commitment to coal price increases
and to the development of an acceptable coal pricing policy, and (b) delays in loan
effectiveness pending appointment of project management consultants.
5.5         Limited engineering personnel within the China National Coal Development
Corporation (CNCDC), and inadequate attention and support by the International
Tendering Corporation (ITC) subsidiary of the China National Technical Import
Corporation (CNTIC) and lack of familiarity with Bank ICB procedures, coupled with
periodic government interference, lead to cumbersome procurement procedures for the
importation of key mining equipment packages. These procurement difficulties lead to
major delays, particularly in relation to the importation of critical longwall equipment
packages and the associated domestic procurement of longwall powered supports.
5.6         A serious (12-month) project implementation delay occurred during the
sinking of the three project mine shafts due to unforeseen subsurface hydrogeological
conditions (not apparent from initial drilling investigation) and the need to freeze large
sections of the mine shafts to pass through heavily water-bearing strata. This underscores
the importance of adequate ground investigations being an integral part of any project
preparation phase. During shaft erection, a further (18-month) delay was occasioned when
the lead supplier of the international consortium responsible for all service shaft
equipment supply, erection and commissioning, declared bankruptcy. Chinese
authorities were very slow to react to and to resolve this issue and, again, ITC appeared
unconcerned about the impact of delays. As a result of delays in the commissioning of the
service shaft, arrangements had to be made to equip and utilize the smaller diameter
ventilation shaft for clearing underground development rock. As a result underground
mine development slowed down.
5.7         Design follow-up (detailed engineering) services and training were delayed
due to protracted negotiations with the German cormancing agency. Inadequate



- 6 -
project reporting throughout most of the project implementation, did not facilitate focus
on project implementation issues and actions needed to resolve them in an expeditious and
business-like manner.
5.8         Under the project, a training center was to be developed at Changcun to
train mine operators and maintenance personnel. Although this facility was constructed
and teachers were trained in Germany, the building and extensive equipment financed and
installed, lay essentially idle throughout a major part of the implementation period.
5.9          The original schedule anticipated 1 year site preparation and 6 years
construction, with coal production start-up in 1991 and rated (4.5 mtpy) coal production
being attained in 1994. At the present time, 9 1/2 years following the start of site
preparation, construction is not completed. First coal production is now not anticipated
until late-1994, with design production (4.0 million tons coal per year) tentatively
scheduled in 1997 and rated production (4.5 million tons coal per year) capacity scheduled
in 1998, a cumulative delay of 3 to 3 1/2 years. This delay occurred primarily due to (a)
the perpetual project and construction management deficiencies, (b) the 12-month slippage
in shaft sinking, (c) the further 18-month delay occasioned by the lead supplier of the shaft
erection/commissioning consortium declaring bankruptcy, and (d) the ripple effects of (c)
above on the rate at which underground mine development was able to proceed.
5.10        Project risks were evaluated at appraisal. These related during project
implementation, to anticipated problems in time and cost overruns. The definition of these
risks was accurate in principle, but, in retrospect, was underestimated. Sensitivity analysis
undertaken at appraisal identified the impact of these factors but did not anticipate the
potential magnitude of the time/cost overruns or the fact that technical assistance schemes
may not prove adequate or successful in strengthening Chinese project management
deficiencies, thus, in themselves, contributing to the serious project implementation delays.
6.    Project Results
6.1          The objective of developing a 4.5 mtpy underground longwall coal mine
operation has not been met at this time. Although construction is nearing completion now,
first coal production is anticipated only in the last quarter of 1994 and target (rated 4.5
million tons per year) coal production is not anticipated until 1998. The major variance
between the planned and actual project implementation schedule occurred primarily due to
delays occasioned by deficiencies in project management arrangements, poor local
contractor performance, delays in appointing consultants, procurement mismanagement and
delays, and problems with shaft sinking operations and related foreign shaft erection
contractors (Section 5).
6.2          The total project cost at project completion is estimated at $274.6 million,
over 20 percent lower than the appraisal estimate of $357.0 million. The principle reason
for the cost reduction is the competitive costs for imported equipment, obviating the need
to utilize physical and price contingencies, and leading to the cancellation of Bank loan
proceeds totalling $51.1 million.



- 7 -
6.3         However, despite the lower than anticipated project cost, the economic rate
of return is estimated at 11 percent, compared to the appraisal estimate of 21 percent. The
reduction in economic benefit is due to (a) a deterioration of international coal prices
(forecast at appraisal to be $46.5 per ton in 1994, compared with an actual level of $31.0
per ton) and thus the economic (FOB export) price of project coal; (b) the delays incurred
during project implementation and thus a delayed revenue buildup stream; and (c) the
reduction in economic distortions identified at appraisal, which have been eliminated to a
large extent over the 10 year implementation period. The project financial rate of return
is estimated at only 3 percent, compared to the appraisal forecast of 9 percent. The $84
million project cost savings, together with higher than anticipated local coal prices (Y 109
per ton coal as compared to the appraisal forecast of Y 58.5 per ton coal) have been more
than offset by (a) the impact of accumulated project delays; (b) higher than anticipated
mine operating costs (now forecast at Y 58.5 per ton coal, more than double the appraisal
estimate due to higher than anticipated inflation rates and the removal of subsidies on input
materials (cement, steel, machinery, etc.); and (c) an increase in commercial taxation
(introduced by government as a mechanism to recover its investment in the project from
Luan CIC) from 3 percent at the time of appraisal, to an average of 13 percent.
6.4         The project was not expected to have major impact on macro or sectoral
growth and policies, although it did provide an opportunity for continued dialogue with
government on the importance of developing an economically rational coal pricing policy.
(Coal prices were liberalized over the 1993/94 period and coal sales arrangements are now
determined essentially by market forces). In terms of human resource development,
considerable overseas and internal training was accomplished, although training facilities
developed at Changcun remain underutilized. Even though misunderstandings occurred
in relation to the development of environmentally acceptable construction waste heaps,
their design, which is now under implementation, will provide an improvement to the
control of environmental degradation caused by coal mining operations.
6.5         The technological environment will be much enhanced following completion
of the project, as the Changcun project will represent the first large scale fully mechanized
mine developed with latest international underground coal mine technology. Indeed, Luan
CIC has already gained much from the underground mine technology transfer and has
effectively increased production at its existing coal mines to 9.5 million tons coal per year
from 6 longwall faces, compared with the production of 6 million tons coal per year from
12 longwall units in the early-1980s. In addition and although not appreciated until the
latter stages of the project, Luan CIC (and indeed MOCI personnel also) have now
understood the critical importance of project management, scheduling, monitoring and cost
control tools in the efficient management of large-scale mine projects.
6.6         At the national level, institutional development impact is greatest within
CNCDC and CNTIC where the mechanisms for optimizing mine design and handling
international procurement have been much enhanced. At the local level, Luan CIC has
finally come to understand the importance and benefits of international construction
management techniques and their benefits to project control and has begun to understand
that project delays can have serious impact on project benefits and on its overall



- 8 -
profitability. These lessons are also more clearly understood now at the national level, in
MOCI.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          With project construction yet to be completed and a three to four-year coal
production buildup schedule, project sustainability cannot be discussed with any certainty.
Recognizing that the major part of project construction has been completed and that Luan
CIC's internal skills have traditionally been in coal mines operations (production), as
opposed to mine construction, it is considered that the rated coal production capacity can
be reached within the foreseen time frame and that the project output (4.5 million tons coal
per year) can be sustained thereafter, and with the financial and economic benefits
calculated (para. 6.3). Indeed, given the performance of Luan CIC existing mines over
recent years (para. 7.2), it is considered likely that the rated Changcun coal production
capacity can be exceeded in future years.
7.2          However, following loan closing, two key issues have been identified that
could impact this position. Firstly, local financing (Y 350 million) needed to complete
project construction has not been forthcoming during the present transitionary reform
period when responsibility for such funding is passing from MOCI to industrial
development banks. It is considered that this issue is likely to be resolved in the near
term, such that further delay to project construction completion is unlikely. Secondly,
during the project implementation period, a large number of local provincial and municipal
coal mines have been developed and are currently producing about 8.5 million tons coal
per year. A major portion of this coal production is being transported on the south Shanxi
rail system such that rail capacity in and out of the area is now such a bottleneck that Luan
CIC is facing difficulty to dispatch coal production from its existing mine operations. No
short-term plan has been developed by either Luan CIC/MOCI or by the Ministry of Rail
to develop additional rail capacity to transport Changcun project coal. In the event that
such a plan is not developed and implemented within the near term, project construction
may be completed but, in part at least, coal production may be unable to reach markets.
In such a situation, financial and economic benefits accruing from the project would be far
less than currently forecast.
7.3          There remains also a risk that operational (start-up) issues will arise with the
initial longwall coal production units and that coal production buildup will be slower than
planned and the attainment of rated coal production capacity delayed beyond the target date
of 1998. Sensitivity analysis indicates that in the event of a further two-year delay in the
attainment of full production, financial and economic benefits would be reduced by a factor
of approximately 10 percent, with the financial and economic rates of return likely to reach
only 2 and 10 percent, respectively.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          The main strengths of the Bank's performance were in assisting Chinese
agencies to identify, prepare and appraise thoroughly the technical, financial and economic



-9-
aspects of the Changcun project (as distinct from institutional aspects) and to utilize
subsequent supervision missions effectively to maintain Luan CIC's focus continuously on
project implementation delays and other project issues, and actions necessary to resolve
them. Supervision missions proved also a useful vehicle to escalate critical implementation
issues to government level for remedial action.
8.2         The Bank made a conscious decision in the early 1980s to proceed with the
preparation of the Changcun project prior to the development of a full appreciation of the
coal sector and related issues, and to utilize the planned Changcun lending operation as a
vehicle upon which to build a better understanding of the sector. This decision was made
in order not to delay what was seen as a very important role that the Bank could and
should play in the important energy subsector and recognized that time would be required
for the government to better understand the Bank's interest and need to be informed about
broad coal sector policies, operations and issues.  As a consequence, certain sector
(particularly  institutional) understandings  were incomplete at appraisal.   Bank
understanding of the organization and management responsibilities and accountabilities of
the various agencies in the sector (MOCI, the MOCI Construction Department, MOCI
Construction Department contractors, and Luan CIC) was incomplete and important issues,
including project ownership, Luan CIC's lack of construction management experience and
expertise, as well as the question of the accountability of MOCI-appointed contractors,
were not well understood (para. 9.1). These issues were at the root of project management
deficiencies that plagued project implementation (paras. 5.1 and 5.2). The lack of clear
definition and understanding of appreciation of organization and management arrangements
in the coal sector and for the Changcun project, and their likely impact on project
implementation, was a weakness of Bank performance.
8.3         Another weakness in the Bank's performance was the frequency and staffing
of supervision missions. In the early stages of implementation, it became clear that serious
issues had remained unresolved at appraisal and that additional issues were likely to arise.
Successive Aide-Memoires repeatedly referred to the need for higher than normal intensity
of supervision effort. However, during certain critical stages of implementation (April
1987-January 1988 and April 1991-December 1993), supervision missions were not
scheduled with the required frequency. In addition, the majority of supervision effort was
focused on technical, procurement, organization and project management issues. Bank
financial/economic staff were not scheduled to participate in the majority of the supervision
effort. As a result, the development impact of the project was not reassessed during
implementation. Such a development impact assessment would have assisted to focus the
Bank and the Borrower on the accumulating loss of financial and economic benefits and
the importance of avoiding further delays during project implementation.
8.4          Closing of the loan account at end-1993 (after only one extension of 6
months and a further extension of 12 months) prior to completion of construction and due
to the poor history of project implementation, may not have been in the best interests of
the project. Although the original implementation period was long by any industry project
standard and implementation delays were many and varied, the benefits of a joint
Borrower/Bank commitment to complete large, issue-oriented, industry projects would



- 10 -
mitigate project start-up delays and ensure that financial and economic benefits are
maximized.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         The main weaknesses in the performance of Luan CIC, the Borrower and
project implementing agency, were (a) its lack of assumption of ownership of the project,
(compounded by the lack of accountability of MOCI-appointed construction contractors to
Luan CIC); (b) its inexperience in project construction management and thus, inherent
project management deficiencies; and (c) its reluctance to utilize international expertise in
construction management, scheduling, monitoring and cost control. After various Bank
staff discussions and appeals to MOCI, provision was made for contractors to be
responsible and accountable to Luan CIC.  However, because of the traditional
independence of the contractors and their historic arms-length position in relation to CICs,
the limited interest of Luan CIC to assume project ownership was rather overpowered by
the presence of the contractors. Because of its traditional assumption of coal mine
responsibility only after completion of construction, Luan CIC failed in the early years of
implementation to mobilize an effective construction management team or personnel that
could direct contractor operations. As a result, Luan CIC was not able to resolve or to
seek resolution of the human, physical and financial resource deficiencies of the
contractors. In addition, basic project (construction) management concepts were not
understood or appreciated. Bank-financed technical assistance consultants appointed at the
outset of the project to assist to develop project scheduling, monitoring and cost control
techniques were not well received or understood by the Chinese counterparts and the
consultant input failed to achieve its objective to transfer, effectively, modern project
management scheduling, monitoring and cost control techniques.
9.2         In the preparation of Part II of the PCR, neither Luan CIC nor MOCI have
indicated the capability to assess or quantify the economic or financial benefits likely to
accrue from the project. Indeed there appears still a complacency and even an indifference
regarding the impact of the project on both the country's economy and the financial affairs
of Luan CIC. There appears to remain in the coal sector a lack of appreciation of the
time, value of money, the cost of capital and the effect of implementation delays on the
accrual of project benefits. These factors which have contributed to an element of
disinterest in the speed of project implementation.
9.3         In general terms, Luan CIC did not take advantage fully of the many areas
of technical assistance provided. Project management assistance was not understood or
accepted, design follow-up technical assistance was often considered an unnecessary
interference and expense, and assistance introduced in the later stages of project
implementation to develop a project master schedule and mechanisms to monitor this, were
slow to be accepted.
9.4          Another weak area of the Borrower's performance was the lack of attention
and interest to the development of the project training center and interest in training. A
teaching center was developed and equipped at Changcun, but although a number of



- 11 -
teachers were successfully trained in German training facilities, Luan CIC's interest in
utilizing the center facilities and the imported training items and equipment, was
indifferent. The original concept that engineers also from the Chengzhuang mine and of
neighboring CICs would utilize the facilities was not taken up by the Borrower.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1        The main strength of the Bank-Borrower relationship was the jointly shared
commitment to identify action plans to resolve project implementation issues.
Unfortunately, because of the extent of project implementation issues, the commitment
tended to focus on technical, contracting and procurement issues, rather than on
development impact and the quantification of the impact of delays on originally projected
benefit streams.
10.2        The Bank's relationship with government was channelled primarily through
MOCI and yielded some support and assistance to key issues during the early years of
project implementation, However, in the late-1980s and with the dissolution of MOCI and
the formation of the China National Coal Corporation (CNCC) with a much reduced staff
and a focus restricted more towards policy initiatives in the coal sector, the relationship
could not be maintained with the same level of focus, although CNCC did try to resolve
key project management deficiencies in the latter stages of project implementation.
10.3        The relationship of Luan CIC to MOCI and MOCI-appointed contractors was
weak. Until the last year of the project implementation, Luan CIC did not display any
interest in assuming project ownership and there seemed to be no clear view between
MOCI and Luan CIC, in relation to the important question of project ownership.
10.4        The main lesson to be learnt from the Bank-Borrower relationship is the
importance of project ownership and that all construction contractors must be directly
accountable and responsible to, and paid by, the project owner.  With the difficult
experience of implementation of the Changcun project, Chinese agencies now appreciate
better this lesson.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        Extensive consulting services were provided throughout project preparation
and appraisal, through the initial development of project management arrangements and
follow-up design assistance to equipment commissioning and scheduling and monitoring
assistance. Generally speaking, the consultant input was satisfactory, although in many
cases, Luan CIC neither understood nor committed itself to the consultant inputs. As a
result and particularly in relation to project management, scheduling, and monitoring
services provided, the impact on the project was not satisfactory.
11.2        Many foreign suppliers were involved in project implementation; a key
activity being the supply, erection and commissioning of the three mine shafts. Suppliers
generally did not seem to exhibit a very positive attitude towards the Chinese counterparts



- 12 -
and relationships were frequently strained. In part, this was due to the long delay between
equipment supply and erection, and the indifferent attitude of certain suppliers, but also
due to the discomfort of Chinese counterparts in recognizing the need for foreign supplier
assistance, and the poor performance and cooperation of local (MOCI-appointed) contractor
counterparts. Local suppliers of underground and coal preparation equipment generally
did not perforrm as well as the foreign suppliers in terms of equipment fabrication and
delivery schedules.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        Legal agreements for the project were adequate throughout the project
implementation and no particular lesson can be learnt from this aspect of the project.
There was generally a lack of commitment by Luan CIC to the importance of loan
covenants and particular confusion occurred in complying with the methane gas monitoring
and environmental (waste heap reclamation) covenants. Project reporting was also an area
of persistent disinterest and weakness.
12.2        The Bank's Staff Appraisal Report proved to be a good framework for
project implementation, for the Borrower and for Bank supervision missions. Data
relevant to the Project Completion Report were readily available. However, with project
preparation, appraisal and implementation spanning nearly 13 years and with a variety of
Bank Task Managers involved, considerable time was necessary to assimilate the historical
data (particularly financial), to reconstruct the appraisal financial evaluation and to
document key project implementation issues. With the Bank's ongoing development of key
industry project performance criteria to assist supervision of future Bank projects, the
collation would improve.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
FACSIMILE
Date: March 14, 1994                                            No. of pages: 6
To:   Name: Mr. Christopher Wardell, Principal Mining Engineer
Dept: Industry and Energy
Div.: Industry and Mining, 613/10
Rm No. G-2-039
Fax: 001-202-477-6619
From: Liu Xinzhong, Deputy Manager, World Bank Projects Dept. CNCDC
Re: CHINA - Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project (Loan 2501-CHA)
Dear Mr. Wardell:
Please find the attached Project Completion Report, Part II for your review
and reference. Project Completion Report (Chinese version) was submitted to CNCDC
on the end of February 1994, but the content of the report is not as required by the Bank
and it describes more about the history of the project. It has to be rewritten and translated
by CNCDC.
Please advise your travel plan to China for Changcun Project.
Your sincerely,
Liu Xinzhong
(signed)



- 14 -
LUAN COAL INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MNING PROJECT
(LOAN 2501-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
This report is Part II of Project Completion Report for Changcun (Luan)
Coal Mining Project (2501-CHA). The report was compiled by Luan CIC and CNCDC;
and it includes the evaluation of Luan CIC's performance and the World Bank's
performance during the implementation of the Changcun Project.
A. INltODUCTION
1.          Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project under Luan Coal Industries
Corporation (Borrower) is located in southeast part of Shanxi Province. The initial
preparation for the project financed by the World Bank started from November 1981 and
actual implementation of the project started in July 1985 with development of underground
and surface construction.
2.          The project comprises the construction and provision of equipment for an
underground mine with a design capacity of 4 million tons per year, consisting of three
vertical shafts, 46.37 km  underground roadways with 90,177 m3 waste and five
mechanized longwall faces; construction and provision of equipment for a coal washery
with a capacity of 2 million ton per year of clean coal; provision of surface infrastructure
including a railway spur line, electrical substation, water supply lines workshops,
warehouse, offices, a hospital and schools with 8,796 m2 building/residential area; the
establishment of mine training centers.
3.          The project is expected to be completed in September 1994 and the coal
production of Luan CIC will be increased to 14 million ton per year. Changcun Coal
Mine is one of the largest underground coal mines with the most advanced equipment
imported in China. The project is the first coal project financed by the World Bank; and
the consultant and the suppliers of equipment provided the training to management and
engineers for the project construction management and electrical/mechanical maintenance
and operations. The training center was established, and it can provide the training to
miners before they work for the mine.
4.          Now the project development components are nearly completed and the
project objectives are basically reached. It will be an initial model for the utilization of
the loan from the World Bank in coal sector.



- 15 -
B. LUAN CIC's PERFORMANCE
5.          Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project seems to be an unsuccessful project
in China since the project completion is seriously delayed for three years against the
appraisal target. The reasons for delay for the project related to all kinds of problems, but
the following issues were recognized as main issues of the project
The Uncontrolled Main Contractor of Construction
6.          The First Construction Company under the Ministry of Coal Industry was
assigned to be one of the main contracts for the underground development and construction
with electricallmechanical installation by MOCI without any competition. Before 1991,
Luan CIC was not able to control the contracts, and all contractors were controlled by
MOCI. The major problems about construction could not be solved at the site but could
be finalized in Beijing. From 1991 to now, all the power for the control of contractors
was given to Luan CIC, but they could not control the contractors very well since the
limitation exists.
The Unforeseen Geological Issue
7.          The result of geological drill holes for water outflow indicated that the water
outflow for three shafts was not much, 10-13 m3 per hour in September 1984. But during
the three shafts sinking, the actual water outflow was from 40-280 m3 per hour and the
development had to stop for the grounding (the urgent method to reduce the water outflow)
since the special shafts sinking method was selected before the start of development
because of the loss water outflow considered. The three shafts sinking took 6 to 10 months
more than the predetermined plan.
The Lack of Construction Management Experience
8.          Before the start of construction, the senior management comprising director
and project manager was not trained for the computerized construction management
technique, and no one knew the advance scheduling and monitoring mechanism. The
consultant provided the training for the construction management in 1986, but the main
management shown little interest in the project management toll because of the limitation
and the real power for labor force and other resources not in their hand. Some junior
engineers could develop the master schedule, but they did not know how to estimate and
monitor the progress of each activity.
The Bankruptcy of Main Supplier for Service Shaft Equipment
9.          All equipment for service shaft should be provided no later than October
1987, but actual delivery was finished in December 1989 since the main supplier was
bankrupt in 1987. Under the assistance of the World Bank, the subsuppliers took over the
full responsibility for the supervision of installation and commissioning, but the service
they provided was not ideal and sufficient since the engineering work of service shaft was



- 16 -
done by main supplier. The installation and commission of the service shaft equipment
took 40 months, 24 months more than the predetermined target.
The Interference from Authorities of Upper Levels
10.         Luan Coal Industries Corporation is a state-owned coal company and the
appointment of management, with resources allocation such as investments, etc., should
be decided and approved by Ministry of Coal Industry of Shanxi Provincial Coal Board.
The management structure and political system were not reformed in the initial years of
the project and the western management concept was not accepted by coal sector at that
time. Some interference from authorities of upper levels involved the management of the
project implementation. The procurement of longwall face equipment took nearly three
years since the authorities involved the bid evaluation.
C. THE WORLD BANKS PERFORMANCE
11.        In the past 10 years, the World Bank made a great effort to Changcun
(Luan) Coal Mining Project, especially the Bank's missions which tried to change the
situation of the project and mobilize the interests of the management from all levels of the
project to speed up the progress of the project. Generally speaking, what the Bank's
missions have done is alright and the actions that the Bank's missions took is suitable to
the project. The completion of the project would have been postponed if the project was
implemented without the assistance and supervision from the World Bank. The relations
between the Bank and Luan CIC is good and the cooperation between two sides is
satisfactory. We have the following comments except the satisfaction.
12.         Montan Consultant was invited by Luan CIC to provide consulting service
to Changcun Coal Mining Project for construction management. Montan Consultant has
the experience in worldwide management and engineering; and the cooperation between
to parties is OK. but sometimes Montan could not provide the real story to the World
Bank since Montan wanted to find more jobs to do on the site. During the bid evaluation
of Safety Monitoring and Production Control System, Montan was invited to provide the
evaluation for technical aspects, but Montan considered only German systems were
qualified since one engineer from Montan who involved the bid evaluation was a consultant
to German bidders. Finally, an independent consultant was invited to provide further
evaluation by the World Bank under the pressure of Luan CIC. It took 12 months from
the submission of bid evaluation report before the evaluation report was approved by the
World Bank.



- 17 -
FACSIMLE
Date: April 27, 1994                                          No. of pages: 3
To:   Name: Principal Mining Engineer
Dept: Industry and Energy
Div.: Industry and Mining, 613/10
Rm No. G-2-039
Fax: 001-202-477-6619
From: Liu Xinzhong, Deputy Manager, World Bank Projects Dept. CNCDC
Re: CHINA - Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project (Loan 2501-CHA)
Dear Mr. Wardell:
Thank you for fax dated April 21, 1994 with a copy of draft PCR, and the
translation version has been forwarded to Luan CIC. Attached is a revised draft of Part
II of PCR prepared by CNCDC and Luan CIC. Please advise your comments for it.
Mr. Zou Jucheng will escort your mission to Luan by air via Taiyuan and
please advise the name of hotel booked for Mr. Sadhan and his group mater, in Beijing.
Best regards,
Liu Xinzhong
(signed)



- 18 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13.   Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual in Part m
13.1    ,   The factual date of the project presented in the tables of Part III, prepared
by the Bank and Luan CIC, was reviewed and cross-checked thoroughly with the Bank's
mission in May 1994. It is adequate and accurate.
Comments on the Analysis by the Bank in Part I
14.   Comments on the Analysis by the Bank in Part I
14.1        The analysis and comments made by the Bank are basically comprehensive
and objective with candid views.
15.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance
15.1        Throughout project implementation, the World Bank maintained a good
cooperative relationship with Luan CIC and coal sector (Borrower/Beneficiary) except it
is advised to CNCDC for loan close only one week before the close date required by the
World Bank. The World Bank regularly sent supervision missions to supervise, inspect
and direct all phases of project to reduce further delays' performance of the project.
15.2        The World Bank's staff assisted Borrower with greater effort for negotiations
with the German cofinancing agency for design follow-up (detailed engineering) and the
establishment of training center and in resolving the issue for all service shaft equipment
supply, erection and commissioning after lead supplier declared bankruptcy.
16.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
16.1        The project was implemented with serious delays but the main objectives of
project for initial stage are to be met by September 1994. The project was the first World
Bank project in coal sector and it was unfamiliar with the Bank's regulation and procedures
and project management control technique in initial years, but all kinds of problems were
experienced and lessons were gotten for the implementation of the Bank project in later
years of the project.
16.2        The Borrower/Beneficiary introduced and absorbed basically the advanced
technology on design, procurement, construction management and operation. ICB and
LCB procedures were mastered by CNCDC and more than $20 million was saved in the
procurement.
16.3        The training center was established and teachers' training was done. It is
a good foundation for the future operation.



- 19 -
16.4        In the process of project implementation, the Borrower/Beneficiary carefully
followed the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement and met all the covenants, and also
strictly respected relevant Bank's guidelines for procurement, use of consultants and the
disbursement handbook.
17.         Lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   The training of the managerial staff including project manager, activities
managers, estimators and progress inspectors and cost controller for
construction management should be carried out before the start of
implementation.
(b)   The contractors for construction should be appointed by national limited
bidding procedures and totally controlled by the owner of project.
(c)   The adequate ground investigations should be required before the start of the
implementation of project for the shaft sinking.



- 20 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
None
2.     Project Timetable
Item                                        Date               Date               Date
Planned            Revised             Actual
Identification/preparation                09,11/81              n/a             09/11/81
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                  09/83                 -                09/83
Postappraisal                               12/83              11/83
02/84              03/84              08/84
Loan negotiations                          05/84             07/08/84             01/85
Board Approval                             07/84             08,10/84             03/85
Loan signing                               05/85                n/a               05/85
Loan effectiveness                         08/85               09/85              10/85
Loan closing                               06/92               12/92              12/93
Loan completion                            09/92               03/93              05/94
3.     Loan Disbursements
Financial year            1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Appraisal estimate         4.8  24.6  48.6  79.5  102.8  116.6  126.0      -      -     -
Actual /a /b                 0   2.6   5.8  12.6  20.8  21.6  32.9  41.9  63.1  74.9
Actual as % estimate /c      0    2.1   4.8  10.5  17.3  27.2  41.4  52.7  79.4  100.0
Date of final disbursement (refund for Special Account full recovery): 05/04/94
/a $5.5 million cancelled 05/87; $41.0 million cancelled 06/90.
/b $4.6 million cancelled at loan closing 05/04/94.
/c Percentage of revised loan amounts, following cancellations.



- 21 -
4.    Project Completion
Indicators                             Appraisal estimate    Actual/PCR estimate
Overall status                                1                    3
Project development objectives                1                    3
Compliance with loan covenants                1                    2
Project management performance                1                    3
Availability of funds                         1                    2
Procurement progress                          1                    2
Training progress                             1                    1



- 22 -
5.    Project Costs and Flnancing
A. PRoJEcr Coms
($ million)
Appraisal estimate          Actual
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
costs   costs          costs  costs
Mine development               22.9    11.1   34.0   55.0        -   55.0
Civil works                    19.2      5.5   24.7   36.2       -    36.2
Equipment                      39.7    93.0  132.7   56.8    60.8 117.6
Preproduction works            11.9      -      11.9   29.6      1.1  30.7
Technical assistance             -       -       -      -        -     -
Training and engineering         -       7.5    7.5    0.3      7.6   7.9
Base Cost                   93.7   117.1  210.8  177.9    69.5 247.4
Physical contingencies         14.1    12.4   26.5      -        -     -
Price contingencies            49.7    25.3   75.0      -
Installed C=                  157.5   154.8  3123   1L77.9    695 247.4
Working capital                 8.0      0.2    8.2    6.1       -     6.1
3roiect Co                    165.    155 0 205  184.    .69.5 253.
Int. during constr.              -      36.5   36.5   12.9      8.2  21.1
Total Financing Required   165.    191.5  357.Q  1962       77.7 274.6
B. PRoJEcr FINANCING
($ million)
Planned
loan
Sources            Items to be financed              agreement       Final
IBRD               Imported equipment and
technical assistance                 126.0       74.9
Germany            Technical assistance                    1.9        2.3
UNDP               Technical assistance                    0.4        0.4
GOC                Local and indirect foreign
cost and interest during construction  220.5    190.9
People's Bank      Working capital                         8.2        6.1
Total Financing                                       357 0       24A



- 23 -
6.     Project Results
A. DIRECT RESULTS
Indicators                        Unit       Appraisal  Revised target   Actual achievement
target          at closing
Land acquisition/
site preparation                  116 ha     III Qtr/85       -             Completed
Rail line/siding                  17 km      IV Qtr/88    IV Qtr/93         Completed
Shaft construction: 1,358 m
Sinking/fitting                 IV Qtr/89  IV Qtr/93    Completed
Perm. hoists                    IV Qtr/89  IV Qtr 93    Completed
Underground mine
development                    44.3 km    I Qtr/90      I Qtr 94        Completed for
first 3 longwalls
Longwall face
commissioning                  5          I Qtr/90      I Qtr/94          Schedule:
LW1 - 08/94
LW2 - 09/94
LW3 - 11/95
LW4 - 01/97
LW5 (Standby) - N/A
Longwall coal output              4.5 mt     1994           1998          Scheduled 1998
Coal preparation plant            HI Qtr 89  IV Qtr 93    Completed
Residential housing               10,142 m   IV Qtr/92    IV Qtr/92         Completed



- 24 -
B. ECONOMIC IMACT
Appraisal   Estimate at
estimate    completion
Economic rate of return                                   21.0         10.8
Assumptions
Incremental basis                                       Yes           Yes
Same cost streams used for financial rate of return     Yes          Yes
Shadow pricing for rail transport                     Yes (2.2)    Yes (2.1)
Benefit stream based on net back FOB export prices       Yes          Yes
Exclusion of transfers and duties                       Yes           Yes
Life of mine projection                                  No           Yes
Base year                                               1984         1994
C. FINANCIAL IMPACr
Appraisal   Estimate at
estimate    completion
Financial Rate of Return                                  8.7          2.8
Other Financial Indicators
Coal Sales at peak production (mt)                        4.2          4.2
Date of commercial production                            1991         1995
FY94 domestic coal price (yuan/ton)                        66          109
Commercial tax on revenue (%)                               3           13
Ratio of revenue to cash costs at steady state            2.8          1.8
Nominal capital cost to completion ($ million)            357          275



- 25 -
7.    Status of Covenants
Covenant                       Subject                            Status
Loan Agr.
2.02(b)       Government to open and thereafter maintain in dol-   In compliance
lars a Special Account in a bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank
3.01          Government to carry out Part B(2) of the project by   Bank agreed to
strengthening the technical capability of the Jincheng   government
CIC in project management, design and mine opera-  request to
tion; training of personnel and establishment of a  delete Part B(2)
training center                                  of the project
3.05          Part B(2) of the project to be carried out in accor-  Bank agreed to
dance with a program acceptable to the Bank      government
request to
delete Part B(2)
of the project
Project Agr.
2.05(a)       Luan CIC to furnish the Bank plans, construction  In compliance
and (b)(iii)    and procurement schedules and periodic progress
reports as requested
4.02          Luan CIC to furnish to the Bank, not later than June   In compliance
30, annual financial statements, audited by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank (including the
Special Account)
4.03          Luan CIC to take, or cause to be taken, measures as  In compliance
shall be required to produce for each of its fiscal
years after december 31, 1984, gross revenues from
all sources equivalent to not less than its total operat-
ing revenues
4.04          Luan CIC not to incur any long-term debt if the debt  In compliance
service coverage is projected to be less than 1.2
times



- 26 -
Covenant                       Subject                           Status
4.05          Luan CIC to furnish to the bank by October 31 of    In compliance
each year, for its comment, (a) a financial plan for
the next fiscal years, and (b) an investment plan for
the next five fiscal years
Part A2       Project management consultants to be employed by    Delayed, but in
May 31, 1985                                     compliance
Part A3       After the development tunnels first reach the coal  In compliance
seam, the Luan company shall promptly measure the
gas emission in a manner acceptable to the Bank and
take all reasonable and appropriate steps to prevent
any ignition or explosion of gas.
Part A5       Luan CIC shall furnish to the Bank by December 31,  Delayed, but
1986, for its comments, a comprehensive reclama-    now under
uon plan for waste dumps and subsidence areas in    implementation
the project, and implement the plan taking into  in acceptable
account the Bank's comments                      manner
Part A6       Commencing January 1, 1986, Luan CIC will make   Statistics and
available to the Bank (a) once every 6 months cur-    diseases
rent accident statistics, and (b) annually a report on    reviewed by
the occurrence of silicosis and occupational diseases   successive SPN
SPN missions                                     missions
Part A7       Luan CIC, from time to time, to monitor effluent  Only applicable
from the projects to determine whether water quality  from the start
meets standards acceptable to the Bank, and to take    of coal produc-
all necessary steps to ensure that such effluent meet   tion, now sche-
these standards.                                 duled late-1994



- 27 -
8.     Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUTS
Task   FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94  Total
LENP   46.8  29.2  10.3        -     -      -        -     -      -     -     -     -    86.3
LENA    -    -   104.3  31.8   -        -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -   136.1
LENN    -    -    14.1   -        -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     14.1
LOP      4.0   1.2   5.1   8.3   -      -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     18.5
SPN       -    -      -    15.2  36.4  20.7  27.9  12.6  15.8  17.2   9.8  18.8   3.8  178.2
PCR       -    -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -    9.5    9.5
Total 50.8  30.4 1197  69.4  36.4  20.7  27.9  12.6  1.0  M2.   9.8  18.8  13.3  442.7



- 28 -
B. MISSIONS
Stage of                    No. of     Specialists    Performance
Project Cycle    Month/Year  Persons   Represented a/    Rating/Status b/  Types of Problems c/
Through Appraisal     09/81        4    M(2),F,E                -        DO
11/81       4    M(2),F,E,P             -         DO, F/E,R,SD
10/82       2    M,F                    -         TA,PM,P,SD
04/83       3    M,F,OA
06/83       4    M(3),F                  -
Appraisal through     09/83        4    M(2),F(2)
Board Approval         12/83       2    M(2)                   -         F,FS
08/84       5    M(2),F,E,OA             -        F,P,OL,L
Board Approval        03/85        5    M(2),F(2),OA    2/2/1/2          F,PM,P,T
through Effectiveness  06/85       3    M,F(2)          2/1/1/1          PM,T
Supervision
Mission
1   11/85       4    M,F(3)          1/1/1/1          PM,TE
2   03/86       3    M,F,OA          1/2/1/2          PM,TE
3   01/87       2    M,F             1/2/1/2          PM,P,T,TE
4   04/87       2    M,F              1/2/1/2         PM, P,T
5   01/88       1    M               1/2/1/2          PM,P,T,TE
6   03/88       2    M,F             1/2/1/2          PM,P,T
7   11/88       1    M               1/2/1/2          PM,P,T
8   04/89       1    M               2/3/2/3          PM,TE
9   12/89       2    M,F             2/2//1/2/2/2/3   F,PM,P,TE
10   11/90        2    M,F            2/2/1/3/2/2/3    F,PM,P,T
11   04/91        2    M(2)           2/2/1/3/1/2/3    PM,P
12   03/92       2    M(2)            2/2/1/3/1/2/3    PM,P,R
13   08/92        2    M(2)           3/2/2/2/1/2/2    F,E,R
14   02/93       2    M(2)            4/3/3/4/2/3/2    PM,E,R,LA
15   08/93        1    M              3/3/2/3/2/2/1    P,TE
16   05/94       2    M,F             PCR Mission      F/E, F,R
a/ M - Mining Engineer; F - FinancialAnalyst; E - Economist
OA - Operations Assistant; P - Power Engineer
b/ Through 04/89, performance rating is Available Funds/Project Management
Management/Development Impact/Overall Status, starting 1 2/89,
performance rating is Overall Status/Project Development
Objectives/Compliance with Loan Covenants/Project Management
Performance/Availability of Funds/Procurement Progress/Training Progress
Procurement Progress/Trainng Progress
c/ DO - Design Optimization; F/E - Financial/Economic
Evaluation; R - Railway; SD - Sector Data; F - Funds allocation/financial;
FS - Feasibility Study Schedule; P - Procurement; OL - On-lending
arrangement; L - Legal; PM - Project Management, T - Training
TE - Technical; E - Environment; LA - Loan Agreement/Compliance
with Covenants



