Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprl No. P-3950-CTA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $126.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MTNING PROJECT
February 21, 1985
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
Calendar 1983    January 1985
$1.00  =        Y 1.98            Y 2.80
Y 1.00 =         $0.51             $0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
BTU       -  British Thermal Unit (= 0.252 kilocalories)
GWh       -  Gigawatt hour (= 1 million kilowatt hours)
kcal      -  Kilocalorie (= 3.97 British Thermal Units)
kcal/kg   -  Kilocalorie per kilogram (= 1.805 British Thermal Units
per pound)
kgce      -  Kilogram of coal equivalent (= 0.641 kilogram of oil
equivalent)
MW        -  Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
km2       -  Square kilometer (= 247.1 acre or 0.3861 square mile)
t         -  Tonne (metric tone) (1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds)
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CCD       -  Capital Construction Department
CCDCC     -  China Coal Mine Design and Consulting Company
CIC       -  Coal Industrial Company
CMA       -  Coal Mine Administration
CNCDC     -  China National Coal Deve!.opment Corporation
CNCEIC    -  China National Coal Expc.t and Import Corporation
rNTIC     -  China National Technical Import Corporation
GVIAO     -  Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
LRMC      -  Long Run Marginal Cost
mtpy      - million tonnes per year
PCB       -  Provincial Coal Industry Board
PPCC      -  Priority Project Coordination Committee
ROM       -  run-of-mine
SAA       -  State Audit Agency
SPC       -  State Planning Commission
t/ms      -  tonne per manshift
toe       -  tonnes of oil equivalent



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:              The Luan Coal Industrial Company (Luan CIC)
Amount:                   $126.0 million
Terms:                    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:          The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the
Government to Luan CIC, with a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace and an interest rate of
8.0% p.a. The Luan CIC will bear the foreign
exchange risk (between the dollar and the Borrower's
currency).
Project Description:      The project is an important element in the Govern-
ment's policy to double coal output to 1,200 million
tonnes per year (mtpy) by the year 2000. The project
is the first of a series of large-scale, fully
mechanized coal mining operations in the country. It
will contribute to: (a) increasing coal production
by about 4.5 mtpy by the early 1990s; (b) transferr-
ing technclogy in mine design, engineering and
construction (especially the highly productive,
mechanized longwall exploitation technology);
(c) introducing modern coal washing technology; and
(d) fostering improved management techniques for
project scheduling, monitoring and cost control.
The project will finance construction of the Changcun
mine, including vertical shafts, underground
roadways, and longwall faces; construction of a coal
preparation plant; equipment for coal extraction,
washery and loadout operations; and surface
infrastructure including a railway spur line, an
electrical substation, water supply lines, workshops,
and warehouses. Risks are normal for a major coal
mining project of this type. The project's technical
assistance and training program will assure adequate
support for project implementation and facilitate
development of technical and managerial skills of
local staff. The Government is planning to raise
coal prices to approach the long run marginal cost of
production within the Seventh Five-year Plan (1986-
90) and maintain that level in real terms thereafter.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of tl-eir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cofinancing (grant aid) has been secured from the
Federal Republic of Germany ($1.9 million) and UNDP
($384,000) for project preparation and technical
assistance.
Estimated Costs:                                    Local     Foreign    Total
…($ million)…
Mine development                            22.9        11.1       34.0
Civil works                                 19.2         5.5       24.7
Equipment                                   39.7        93.0      132.7
Pre-production works                        11.9          -        11.9
Technical assistance,
training and engineering                    -          7.5        7.5
Base Cost (Jan.-1985 prices)            93.T        117.1      210.8
Physical contingencies                      14.1        12.4       26.5
Price contingencies                        49.7         25.3       75.0
Installed Cost                         157.5        154.8     312.3
Working capital                              8.0         0.2        8.2
Total Project Cost /a                    165.5       155.0      320.5
Interest during construction                 _          36.5       36.5
Total Financing Required                 165.5       191.5      357.0
/a The project is exempted from import taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Foreign    Total
…($ million) ------
IBRD loan                                     -        126.0      126.0
FR Germany grant                              -          1.9        1.9
UNDP grant                                    -          O.4        0.4
Government contributions                   157.5        63.0      220.5
Local bank loans                             8.0         0.2        8.2
Total                                      165.5       191.5      357.0



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY            1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991
---------------------($ million)…------------------
Annual             4.8    19.8    24.0    30.9    23.3    13.8    9.4
Cumulative         4.8    24.6    48.6    79.5   102.8   116.6  126.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                 21%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  No. 5127-CHA, dated February 12, 1985



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Changcun (Luan) Coal
Mining Project. The loan for $126.0 million equivalent would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government would onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Luan Coal
Industrial Company (Luan CIC), with a 20-year term including five years of
grace and an interest rate of 8.0% p.a. The Luan CIC would bear the foreign
exchange risk (between the dollar and the Borrower's currency). Cofinancing
has been secured from the Federal Republic of Germany ($1.9 million grant) and
from UNDP ($384,000 grant) for project preparation and technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic m'.ssion that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by
May 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural
imbalances, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in
1979. Reform implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culmi-
nated with the introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in
various forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production
and investment decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after
contracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless signifi-
cant systemic changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experi-
mental basis); fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to
share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly
manufactured exports), and relatively mcdest (in relation to past trends) GDP
growth.



-2-
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, a deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980,
inflationary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive invest-
ment demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1% of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5
billion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has continued to be strong since then, and real GDP growth averaged over 8%
p.a. from 1981 to 1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and con-
struction materials were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price
increases were limited by further strengthening of administrative price
controls (particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly
in 1982 (1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%),
due to a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of
Government organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures
on investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84) and maintaining
annual crude oil output at over 100 million tons, along with improvements in
the efficiency of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption
grew only 60% as fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very
strong performance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in
1981-84 and grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in
1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry have also grown very rapidly,
stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment



- 3 -
continued to inorease sharply in 1982, far exoeeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in effioiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in the first 11 months of 1984, exports rose by 18%
and imports by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84 than in
1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the face of
worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983);
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7
months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since then.
The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. A salient trend has been the spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one type of pursuit - often cash crops,
animal husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by
small groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increas-
ingly common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on a number of fronts.  Since early 1984, a main focus has been further
broadening and clearer delineation of the decisionmaking authority of urban
enterprises. Profit retention now extends almost universally to state-owned
industrial enterprises and in nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce,
construction, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enter-
prises as well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enter-
prises have grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises
rose from 150,000 in 1978 to 2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implemer.tation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances to the
Government budget by state enterprises. Though most enterprises have switched



- 4 -
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of net. fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discioline at the enterprise
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply.  In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were



- 5 -
given to the newly-established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also being widened,
with enterprises investing in each other and in joint ventures and in some
cases purchases of stocks by individuals occurring. Though restrictions on
secondary trading remain, Government bonds purchased by individuals now can be
sold to banks or used as collateral for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirmed and consolidated
recent reforms and gives some general guidelines for the direction of future
reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in the following areas:
(a) enlivening and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating
Government and enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by
Government organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming
the price system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system;
(e) establishing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on
the market mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) up-
grading managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed
economy; (g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting
cooperation and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utiliza-
tion of foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of Income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjustments in
administratively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises,
however, will still be appointed by Government organizations; a few key
products will still be subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the
Government; state ownership and control over certain institutions like banks
and railways will not be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing
product lines, mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to
Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required wili be very difficult. particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated. and th.us appro-
priate sequencing and coordination become essential.  For example, price
reform in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will
have limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result
from tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of



- 6 -
distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be
incomplete without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enter-
prises (which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their
workers and in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and
replacing them with Government supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with the developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial
improvements in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a
constraint on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In
energy, shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to
constrain growth as they do now. Transport and commercial infrastructure will
become increasing drags on the economy without large new investments (as well
as improvements in efficiency). In mobilizing resources in all these areas,
China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally, the rising
share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown in popu-
lation growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to main--
taining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are a major problem which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient utilization of existing technology must be
dealt with by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is one of the most important ones. In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for
the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical
downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of
living for the population and an appropriate level of social services will
become a major challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in
these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various
parts of the country will continue to require attention. Redistribution of



-7-
financial resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migra-
tion out of the poorest areas, and lower nonagricultural wages to make invest-
ment in them more attractive are among the options for alleviating poverty in
these areas.
23.       The Government is now in the process of Uinali7ing its Seventh Five
Year Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of'
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task a
difficult one. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for
rapid, sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in
part on foreign borrowing. This is recognized by the Government, which plans
to gradually draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to
attract foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of
the world. But its access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a
significant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan
and a few other bilateral donors and will probably average t.o more than $500-
600 million p.a. during the rest of toe 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
tion, will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are
compounded by China's large investment requirements and the difficulties
associated with its efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of
this, there are several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its
relationship with China. First, the Bank can offer China its development
experience and institutional knowledge as well as the opportunity for
interaction with the Bank's other me.iber countries. Second, the Bank can
assist China in removing major constraints on development and in improving
investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors - particu-
larly energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in its efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy,
therefore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial
demonstration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so that they can be repeated by
iocal authorities within their existing resources. Some of the agriculture
projects and the rural health projects are examples of this approach. The
introduction of international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first
to finance goods, and later civil works) is now being adopted by the
Government for most local purchases and many domestic construction projects.



-8-
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI sponsored
programs, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health,
education and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project
proposals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff
training, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions,
and improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a
number of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several
education aad petroleum projects. Specific sector work in enterprise manage-
ment, urban development, health and industry has also provided assistance for
improvement of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional
development options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, prcvision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and Dromotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has allowed economic and sector work to be particularly relevant to the



- 9 -
problems of adjustment and reform which have been in the forefront for the
Government. Followup to the first economic report emphasized technical
assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection techniques
and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program has been
directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China Invest-
ment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are among examples
of the links between economic and sector work and the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research into the problems of enterprise management
is now nearing completion in collaboration with Chinese economio research
institutions. It has yielded insights into the thinking and reaction of
enterprise managers to system reform and led to better understanding of h_-.
policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000 and a comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy
- its structure, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the function-
ing of the economic management system. Collaboration on issues of institu-
tional and policy change with Chinese research institutions will continue.
Review of the investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year
Plan (1986-90) is finalized will help develop the next generation of projects
for the lending program.
Lending Opera',ions
35.       Si-ce China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 20 projects involving lending of $2.0 billion to China have been ap-
proved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of September 30, 1984. For this fiscal year we hope to present a total of
eleven projects to the Board. These include the already approved Second
Agricultural Research Project and the Second Power Project and the proposed
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project and projects in education, seeds develop-
ment, forestry, rural water supply, railways, roads, fertilizer production,
and irrigation.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       In the energy sector, lending has included five projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, civil works, technical studies, training and consultant



- 10 -
assistance. The Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's
extensive use of competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power
Project placed particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alter-
natives for electricity generation, power plant location and interconnection
of power grids will be the subject of future work. For development of China's
petroleum and coal resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition
of appropriate technologies, least cost planning of investment and related
transport investment programs. Particular attention will also be paid to
improvement of management efficiency, financial independence of project
entities, and staff training.
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road tapacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost opera-
tions, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a theme in the
sector and this shoula provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
involvement. Improved management and information systems and analytical tech-
niques for better cost control will be encouraged under the projects, which,
once pruven, will be suitable for wider use throughout transport enterprises.
Inter-modal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative investment
choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and sector work.
39.       In agriculture, five projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agricultural credit system. Future projects in seeds
development, forestry and agricultural credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support on-going structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional
production-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and
cement, to expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector
analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by four education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring



- 11 -
procedures and greater decentralization). Future projects in health, urban
development and water supply will assist the Government in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. While there were some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, it has since estab-
lished a specialized central procurement agency and has largely overcome this
problem. Most project agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the
State Planning Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank
Group projects. To support further expansion of the lending program,
accelerate project preparation, improve project implementation, and facilitate
further economic and sector work, the Bank Group is planning to open a
resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE COAL SUBSECTOR
The Energy Sector
43.       China is well endowed with primary energy; its coal resources are
particularly large. Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at 640 billion
tonnes, against 1983 production of some 715 million tonnes. Exploitable
hydropower potential is estimated at 1.9 million GWh per year, against 1983
generation of some 86,450 GWh. Recoverable reserves of oil in the onshore
regions are estimated at 1.8-2.5 billion tonnes and 4 to 8 billion tonnes
offshore. Associated and non-associated gas are estimated at about
130 billion cu m (equivalent to over 110 million tons of oil). From the
review of the sedimentary basins, the ultimate recoverable reserves of oil are
estimated to be in the range of 12 to 20 billion tonnes, and those of oil
shales in the order of 400 billion tonnes. Production in 1983 was about
106 million tonnes of oil and over 10 billion cu m of gas. About 70% of
current primary energy production is provided by coal, 5% by hydropower and
about 25% by oil and gas combined.
44.       The counttry's achievement in developing its energy resources over
the last few decades has been impressive. Total production of primary
commercial energy increased by 9% p.a. on average between 1952 and 1983.
During the same period, production of coal increased from slightly over 60
million tonnes to 715 million tonnes (or at an average rate of about 8.3%
p.a.) and power generating capacity increased from less than 2,000 MW to
76,440 MW; oil production increased from about 0.1 to 106 million tonnes.
This pushed China into the rank of the third largest consumer of commercial
energy in the world, behind USA and the Soviet Union, but ahead of Japan.
45.       China's total energy consumption per capita is about 650 kg of coal
equivalent (kgce), which is slightly above the average for developing
countries (620 kgce). Energy consumption grew faster than GDP in the past,
but there is considerable potential for improvement in industrial energy
efficiency. Despite the Government's determined efforts in promoting energy
savings and the shift of emphasis to less energy intensive sectors (in fact,



- 12 -
the Chinese target is for energy consumption to double while the gross value
of industrial and agricultural output (GVIAO) is to quadruple by the year
2000), economic growth is still expected to be constrained by the shortage of
energy. The energy sector faces little chance of repeating the past
development performance: major oilfields have peaked and the development of
offshore oilfields would require much time and investment; rapid expansion of
the coal industry is difficult due to the transportation constraints and the
extent of technological improvements required; and the remoteness of major
hydro sites and long gestation period precludes hydropower's share from
increasing much within this decade.
46.       Aside from coal, hydropower, oil and gas, there is some potential in
oil shale and geothermal energy. Non-commercial energy sources are also
important, corresponding to almost one half of the total commercial energy
production. Traditional fuels such as wood play a smaller role in China than
in most other countries with similar income levels because of smaller forest
resources. However, China is a leader in biogas.
47.       China's energy resources are not evenly distributed.  The northeast
and north, with only 30% of China's population and 45% of the gross industrial
output, have as much as 75% of the known commercial energy resources and
sustain the bulk of the country's energy production. The east, with one-fifth
of the total population and 30% of the industrial output, is almost devoid of
energy resources and so is the central-south. The southwest has a huge hydro-
power potential, but the western regions are inaccessible and sparsely popu-
lated. China is thus increasingly fostering: (a) the development of coal in
Shanxi province, which among northern provinces is relatively well situated
vis a vis the large southern and eastern consumption centers; and (b) its oil
potential in the offshore areas, especially in the southeastern continental
shelf.
The Coal Sub-Sector
48.       China's proven coal reserves (640 billion tonnes) rank first in the
world.  Its economically-mineabl; reserves are sufficient to sustain
production at the current level for well over 100 years. About 86% of
reserves are hard coal (17% anthracite and 69% bituminous) and only 14%
lignite. Hard coal reserves are of good to medium quality with ash content in
the 10-25% range, sulphur generally less than 1%, and calorific value
generally over 6,000 kcal/kg. Coal production reached about 715 million
tonnes in 1983 and expanded at an averaga rate of about 8.3% p.a. during the
last 30 years. More than 95% of production is obtained by underground mining.
149.      China is a low-cost coal producer.  Operating costs are typically
under $7 per tonne, while capital costs average between $40-45 per tonne p.a.
capacity (including mine-related infrastructure and welfare facilities, but
excluding other infrastructure such as rail trunk lines). Geological and
mining conditions are very favorable and wages are low. which compensates for
low labor productivity. There is considerable variation in mining conditions
and costs among regions. The North and Northwest, which contribute a large
part of the production. enjoy the lowest costs, as reserves lie in thick,
gently-dipping coal seams about 300 meters deep. Costs in other regions are



- 13 -
normally higher as mining conditions are less favorable. Overall, onily South
Afrioa, India and Western US mines are competitive with China in the cost of
coal production.
50.       Coal in China is mined from some 20,000 mines; 580 of which are
centrally controlled by the Ministry of Coal Industry (MOCI) and they produced
53% of total production in 1982. The rest are local mines run either by the
state through local governments at the provincial or county level or by
collective enterprises belonging to communes and brigades. The MOCI mines are
locally grouped into 84 Coal Mine Administrations (CMAs) or Coal Industrial
Companies (CICs). CMAs and CICs report to Provincial Coal Industry Boards
(PCBs), which in turn report to MOCI as well as to provincial governments. In
general, local mines produce less than 600,000 tpy each; a large number of
collective mines are small scale and part-time producers.
51.       The coal industry in China is a major employer.  Over 4.7 million
workers or about 1% of the labor force are involved. About a third of these
are engaged in mining activities; the rest are in various related services
such as education, housing, health, etc. MOCI mines employ about 2.6 million
workers. In 1982, overall productivity of MOCI mines was only about
0.9 tonnes per manshift Ct/ms).  This reflects a low degree of mechanization,
which is sometimes economically Justified due to abundance of labor.
52.       Among coal consuming sectors, industry stands out with about 50% of
total consumption. In chemical industry, for example, coal meets 45% of total
energy requirements (fuel and feedstock), as compared to about 5-6% in the
Federal Republic of Germany and about 1S in Japan, Canada and Italy. The
share of the power sector, which worldwide uses almost two thirds of coal
produced, is only about 20% in China. However, consumption of coal by the
power sector in China has grown at almost 7% p.a. on average between 1970 and
1982, and it is expected to remain the fastest growing coal consumer.
Noteworthy is the rapid growth in residential and commercial consumption of
coal over the last few years, but it still represents only about 23% of the
total.  Coal has lost ground in t:ansportation (less than 4% of the total), as
the railways rely increasingly on diesel and electric locomotives. Exports
only represent about 1% of total cc::sumption.
53.       The Government plans to increase coal production to 1,200 million
tonnes p.a. by the year 2000. However, despite energy conservation measures,
the planned economic growth is expected to generate a domestic demand for at
least 1,400 million tonnes p.a. by then (implying an average growth rate of 4%
p.a.). The official production target is likely to be surpassed since it
assumes no expansion of collective mines, which should contribute at least 100
mtpy to the overall coal production by the year 2000. However, attaining
1,400 million tonnes by the year 2000 will depend on overcoming certain
critical constraints: shortages of investment funds; nonremunerative coal
prices; inadequate project planning, design and management; and insufficient
intersectoral coordination.
54.       The preliminary program under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90)
calls for annual investments of about $2 billion (in 1984 prices) to build new
production capacity by 35-40 mtpy. However, the allocation for investment has



- 14 -
consistently been less than $2 billion per year lately. In 1983 there was an
increase in the investment budget ($1.8 billion in 1983 as compared to
$1.2 billion in 1981) and in the capacity of mines under construction. To
supplcment domestic funding, efforts are now being made to mobilize foreign
investments mostly for the development of open pit mines. However, an even
more important step in mobilizing investment funds would be coal price
increases resulting from thc Government's new policy to move prices within the
coming plan period to approach the long-run marginal cost of production.
55.       In China, there is still considerable room for mine design
improvement and shortening of mine construction time. The Chinese system of
mine development is constrained by design norms which leave little flexibility
for specific geological conditions. Also, there are a large number of
government entities involved during project execution, and coordination of
their activities is often quite inadequate. In view of these problems, the
Bank, with grants from UNDP and the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany, provided technical assistance to improve the feasibility study and
optimize the design for the Changcun mine. The Bank will continue to prnvide
technical assistance under the proposed project.
56.       Also, the Chinese face a number of options regarding the manner of
coal development. The wide variety of geological, geographical and socio-
economic conditions of China's coal subsector suggest that optimum investment
programs should include: both large and small mines; both labor intensive and
mechanized mines; both local and central government mines; mainly underground
but also a few large open pit mines; and largely mines located in the Shanxi
province for the short to medium term.
57.       Until recently, MOCI emphasized development of centrally-controlled
mines over local mines because the former could have a larger impact on coal
production and increase productivity, reserve recovery rates and mine
safety. Smaller local mines were regarded as generally of short life and
wasteful in use of reserves, poorly managed and generally unsafe; and by
indiscriminately excavating for coal, many small mines preempted large-scale
developments in deposits capable of yielding high production rates. However,
the realization that smaller mines under local control also had advantages
(such as lower investment costs, shorter construction period, and ability to
serve local ma'kets with minimum transport effort and to mobilize local
financial and management resources) brought about a well-conceived plan for
more balanced development of large and small mines.
58.       About a third of MOCI controlled coal is traded interprovincially.
Increasingly in the future coal production by MOCI will be concentrated on the
North, mainly in Shanxi. since this region has the bulk of economically-
recoverable reserves. Transport of coal in China entails a massive effort,
exerting great pressure on various transport modes. In 1980, coal used about
a third of the country's total transport capacity. The railways move about
400 mtpy of coal, or more than 50  of coal transported.  Highways and water
transport move the rest. Transport capacity for years has not been able to
cope with coal transport demand. Therefore, large investments are currently
being made in railways and ports to provide outlets for northern coal.



- 15 -
59.       Modern mining technology and the most rudimentary methods of
production coexist in China. The choice of technology is intrinsically tied
to the scale of mines, and this in turn to the size, depth, and mineability of
coal deposits. For an economy with a large, under-utilized labor force and
scarce capital, the issue of mechanization deserves careful attention. In the
case of small deposits or the peripheral areas of larger deposits lying close
to the surface (such as small outcrops), small-scale mining using traditional
technology makes economic sense. But in deeper deposits, requiring costly
shafts, small mines are not viable. For depths of 300 m or more, large-scale
mechanized mines generally make economic sense.
60.       Open pit coal mining in China represents less than 5% of total
production; most deposits amenable to this mining method (which in essence are
mechanized) are located in remote areas of western Shanxi and Inner Mongolia.
Although the unit cost of open pit mining could be lower than the average for
underground mines, much of the edge is lost by higher transport costs. As a
consequence, open pit mines are likely to be developed very selectively in
China.
Coal Prices
61.       Coal prices in China are currently very low.  The national average
mine-mouth price is only about $10 per tonne at an average calorific value of
5,400 kcal/kg, or only about 60% of estimated long-run marginal cost (LRMC)
and less than 50% of quality-adJusted international thermal coal prices. Coal
prices are quoted at the mine with transport cost being borne by the consumer.
Due to low prices, coal mines a-e in a weak financial position; subsidies from
the central or local governments are frequently required. Some mines show
profits, but usually prices cover only operating costs (including mainte-
nance). Also, the current price structure does not reflect the relative value
of coal to consumers. Noteworthy is the fact that the coal price formula does
not discriminate by calorific value, although it does by ash content.
62.       China's low coal prices encourage waste among consumers and adver-
sely affect production. Lack of funds at the mine level adversely affects
replacement of equipment and development work. Local mines suffer even more,
as resources available to local governments and collective enterprises are
even more limited. Given the importance of coal in the economy, the Bank has
pursued a long dialogue with the Government on the need to raise coal
prices. The Government has recently announced its intention to implement
major price adjustments under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) as part of
its program for fundamental reform of economic management and urban economic
system. Specifically for coal, the Government has adopted a policy to
increase coal prices to approach LRMC within the plan period and to maintain
this level in real terms thereafter. The Government has already taken initial
steps in this direction, including some changes to the price structure. These
and other changes planned for 1985 have been designed to provide substantial
incentives for production increases and energy conservation. They include a
virtual elimination of price controls over coal produced by collective mines
(about 25% of total production), 25-50% increases for above quota production,
and 5-10% increases for overall production in high-cost areas. Also, MOCI is
carrying out a series of studies on production costs in various regions and of



- 16 -
various coal grades and on the relative value to consumers of those grades.
The objective is to determine a more rational coal price structure. In line
with MOCI requests, the Bank is planning to continue providing assistance for
these studies. The progress and findings of the studies will be discussed
with the Bank from time to time.
Luan Coal Industrial Company
63.       The Luan CIC is located 20 km north of Changzhi city in southeast
Shanxi province. It operates four coal mines, some small industries, several
educational institutions and a variety of social services. Coal production
from Luan mines has increased from 3.6 million tonnes in 1978 to 5.6 million
tonnes in 1983. Coal is semi-anthracite with very low sulphur content (0.3%);
run-of-mine (ROM) coal has an ash content of 20-22% and a calorific value of
6,000 kcal/kg. The Luan CIC provides employment to about 17,000 persons
including 2,470 in non-mining activities. It is adequately staffed with
experienced personnel. Pursuant to its Charter, the Luan CIC is an autonomous
entity, under the leadership of MOCI. It has independent accounting with
responsibility for its profits and losses.
64.       Luan's financial performance is good by Chinese coal industry
standards. Since the last price increase in 1979, Luan has been generating
operating profits of around $20 million equivalent p.a. In 1983, Luan's
profit retention rate was over 15%, one of the highest in the coal
subsector. Since 1979 it has earned rates of return on net fixed assets in
service of over 20%. Fixed assets are not revalued, but given China's low
level of inflation over the last 30 years (averaging about 1-2% p.a.),
revaluation would have little impact on the rate. The Government's
contribution to Luan's fixed assets and working capital totalled Y 250 million
up to 1983. Remittances by Luan to the Government (commercial tax plus profit
remittances) totalled Y 230 million during the 1978-1983 period. This
indicates that Luan's investments were profitable to the State.
The Role of the Bank
65.       With energy expected to remain a major constraint to economic
growth, the Bank is placing a particular emphasis on financing key projects in
the energy sector. In the case of coal, which is to contribute at least 70%
of incremental commercial primary energy up to the year 2000, the Bank will
focus on the transfer of advanced mining technology, mine design optimization
and efficient project management, and definition of policies that would
address the subsector's long-term issues and constraints. Thus, a series of
coal projects will be included in the lending program, of which the proposed
project is the first.
66.       Among the various actions needed for expanding the coal subsector,
rapid development of large mines using modern technology is critical. The
proposed project will provide a model for such development, which will have an
important demonstration effect. The Bank has been involved since the con-
ceptual stage of this project and has already made a significant impact on
design optimization and organizational arrangements for p,roject construc-
tion. The project will utilize modern mining systems, which, although



- 17 -
individually not unknown to the Chinese, will be fully integrated for the
first time in a single mine In China. Sinoe the implementation of a highly
mechanized project requires special skills in technology, planning and
management, extensive technical assistance will, be provided under the
project. Moreover, a good dialogue has already been established with the
Government on matters such as coal pricing and intersectoral coordination.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
67.       The projeot was identified in September 1981 and prepared by MOCI.
It was appraised in September 1983 and August/September 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 14 to 18, 1985, with a Chinese delegation
headed by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director of External Finance, Ministry of
Finance. A staff appraisal report (No. 5127-CHA, dated February 12, 1985), is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project ObJectives
68.       The principal ob;ectives of the project are:  (a) to increase
China's coal production by about 4.5 mtpy by the middle of 1990s; (b) to
transfer technology in mine design, engineering and construction (specifically
the highly productive mechanized longwall exploitation technology); (c) to
introduce modern coal washing technology; and (d) to foster improved manage-
ment techniques for project scheduling, monitoring and cost control, thereby
reducing construction cost and time.
Project Description
69.       The project includes development of an underground mine with a
production capacity of about 4.5 mtpy ROM coal, a coal preparation plant (2
mtpy), and all surface infrastructure including a railway spur line,
electrical substation, water supply lines, workshops, warehouses, offices, a
hospital, schools, etc. Mine construction will involve sinking of three
vertical shafts, construction of 48 km of underground roadways and development
of six longwall faces. The project also includes a technical assistance and
training program.
70.       Geological exploration has proven sufficient mineable reserves to
ensure a mine life exceeding 80 years. The coal quality is similar to other
mines of the Luan CIC.  Coal prod.ction is expected to start in '990 and
gradually build up to about 4.5 million tonnes by 1993.  Although Chinese
design parameters are based on 300 operating days per year, which would result
in a nominal design capacity of 4.0 mtpy, actual production capacity will be
4.5 mtpy, considering that 350 mine-working days are normal in the Chinese
coal industry.  Since most consumers are located nearby, transport is not
expected to pose a problem. Power will be provided from the nearby power
stations and grid. Assurances have been obtained that the Luan CIC would be
provided with adequate electric power for constructing and operating the
project facilities (draft Loan Agreement. Section 3.01(a)(ii)).



- 18 -
71.       The manpower requirement at full production is estimated to be about
4,050, of which 320 are managerial and supervisory staff. The overall produc-
tivity is planned to be 4.8 t/ms, commensurate with the high level of mecha-
nization. Though the manpower planning has been done carefully, the deploy-
ment of some additional workers. as per Chinese practice, cannot be ruled
out. In order to ensure the level of operational efficiency commensurate with
the highly productive equipment deployed, assurances have been obtained that
after 1994 the Changcun mine will operate with production targets of not less
than 4.0 mtpy, and an overall productivity of no less than 4.0 t/ms, (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.02 and Part B of the Schedule thereto).
Project Management and Implementation
72.       The Luan CIC has created a Construction Department with adequate
staff for implementation. The Provincial Coal Industry Board (PCB) is respon-
sible for supervising the project construction on behalf of MOCI. Since a
number of government agencies are involved in providing input to the project
construction, MOCI has established a special committee for interagency
coordination. The committee will continuously review the work in progress and
take timely action to remove any constraints affecting project implementa-
tion. It will also be responsible for liaison with the Bank.
73.       Formal SPC approval of the proposed project was given ii. November
1983. The basic engineering was done by the China Coal Mine Design and
Consulting Corporation (CCDCC) (assisted by consultants from the Federal
Republic of Germany, financed first by a UNDP technical assistance program--
with the Bank acting as Executing Agency--and subsequently by the Government
of FR Germany). Detailed design and engineering for bid specifications are
under way, also assisted by FR Germany. During the detailed engineering phase
of the project, the Litan CIC will carry out a geotechnical study to increase
the length of the longwall faces to more than 185 m and to optimize the mine
layout accordingly. Assurances to this effect have been obtained (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b) and the Schedule, Part A, para. 8). Pilot
holes for shaft locations have been completed and site preparation works have
started. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1991.
Safety and Environment
74.       Over the last 5 years, the Luan CIC has reduced the fatal accident
rate by an impressive 75% through improved safety management and training and
a higher degree of mechanization (which will be further advanced with the
project). However, the occurrence of fatal and severe accidents is still
relatively high by standards of the industrialized world. Although no
immediate dangers are foreseen, the rate of gas emission from the mine, as
well as its hydrological characteristics, require further investigation during
project implementation. Main environmental hazards are water effluents, waste
rock disposal and ground subsidence. These issues will be addressed by the
safety and environmental components of the technical assistance program. To
maintain a continuous vigil on mine safety and environment, assurances have
been obtained that Luan CiC will: (a) make available current statistics on
accidents and occupational diseases to the Bank for review on a regular basis;
(b) determine gas emissions as soon as mine workings encounter the first seam



- 19 -
and take appropriate steps to prevent explosions; (c) undertake hydro-
geological studies and appropriate steps to prevent any accidental inrush of
water; (d) draw up a comprehensive reclamation plan for waste dumps and
subsidence areas and present it to the Bank for its comments by the end of
1986 and implement it thereafter; and (e) monitor water effluents and take
corrective action, if necessary, so they meet water quality standards
acceptable to the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b) and the
Schedule, Part A, paras. 3-7).
Technical Assistance and Training
75.       Despite the fact that the Luan CIC has many good and experienced
engineers and planners, their expertise in various aspects of project manage-
ment, such as project scheduling, monitoring and cost control is relatively
weak. It has therefore been decided to strengthen these skills and train
Chinese managers with the assistance of foreign management consultants. The
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) is providing assistance to the
local design institute for improved design and technical control. Assistance
will also be provided during the construction phase in mine development tech-
nology and organization for rapid underground excavation. Assurances have
been obtained that consultants for project management would be employed by May
31, 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b) and the Schedule, Part A,
para 2). A new training center will be established and integrated with the
Luan CIC's existing training facilities. The center will focus on the applic-
ation of modern mining techniques and will train operating, technical and
managerial staff. Strong mine safety and environmental control components
will be built into all phases of technical assistance. A similar training
program, including the establishment of a new training center, will be provi-
ded for the Jincheng Coal Industrial Company. Assurances have been obtained
that training for the Luan and Jincheng CICs would be carried out in accor-
dance with1 a program acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.05; draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b) and the Schedule, Part A,
para. 1).
Marketing
76.       The Luan CIC's principal consumers of fine coals and washery
middlings would be power stations located in the vicinity of the mine. A
large nearby fertilizer plant and household consumers in neighboring provinces
would use the lump coals. Considering that coal demand in the country exceeds
supply, and that the project is conveniently located to meet the demand of
priority consumers both inside and outside Shanxi province, marketing of
Changcun coal is not expected to constitute a problem.
Costs and Financing
77.       The cost estimates are based on January 1985 price levels and
summarized in the table at the beginning of this report. They include an
overall physical contingency of 10% for foreign nosts and 15% for local
2osts.   For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that
'exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain "purchasing
power parity". On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and local



- 20 -
costs: (a) when expressed in US dollars, is based on expected international
inflation rate of 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986-1988, 7.5% in 1989 and 6% in 1990 and
thereafter; and (b) when expressed in Yuan, is based on expected domestic
inflation rate of 3% p.a. from 1985 onwards. The total financing required for
the project is $357.0 million, including interest during construction. The
project is exempted from import taxes and duties. The proposed Bank loan of
$126.0 million would cover 35% of total project cost or 66% of the foreign
exchange requirements. It would be used to finance the direct foreign costs
of plant, equipment and technical assistance and training.
78.       The foreign exchange requirement of $191.5 million is expected to be
met by the proposed Bank loan ($126.0 million), German grant ($1.9 million),
UNDP grant ($0.4 million - already approved and spent), and government contri-
butions ($63.2 million). The local cost ($165.5 million equivalent) is to be
financed by government contributions and local bank loans.
79.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to China at the standard
variable interest rate for a 20-year term including five years of grace. The
Government would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the Luan CIC under a
subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term including five years of grace
and an interest rate of 8.0% p.a. The Luan CIC would bear the foreign
exchange risk (between the dollar and the Borrower's currency) (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). A Project Agreement will be concluded between
the Bank and the Luan CIC. Execution of an acceptable subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the Luan CIC and approval of the Loan
Agreement by the State Council would be conditions of loan effectiveness
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Procurement and Disbursement
80.       SuppLy of local construction materials, plant and equipment is regu-
lated by an allocation system administered by central and state government
agencies. Procurement of imported equipment and materials is handled
centrally through the China National Coal Development Corporation (CNCDC) and
the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC). Equipment and
materials to be financed by the Bank will be procured through ICB in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines, except for packages not exceeding $350,000 and up
to an aggregate value of $6.7 million. which will be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids invited from at least four
eligible suppliers from at least three countries. Certain critical items of
imported equipment will be needed by early 1985 prior to commencement of shaft
sinking and bids for these items have been invited.   It is anticipated that
some construction equipment and consulting services will have to be procured
prior to loan signing. Retroactive financing not exceeding an aggregate
amount of $6.0 million of expenditures between December 1, i984 and the loan
signature date, is proposed. All consulting services wili be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The proposed Bank loan would finance 100% of
the foreign cost of directly imported goods or 100% of locally supplied items
exfactory, and 100% of technical assistance and training costs.  A special
account will be established under the project with an authorized allocation of
$2 million. Disbursement would be made against full documentation except for
contracts valued at less than $50,000 and overseas training which would be



- 21 -
against statements of expenditures. Documentation supporting the statements
of expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank, but should be retained by
MOCI in Beijing and made available for inspection by the Bank's supervision
missions.
81.       Details of procurement of goods and services are shown in the table
below:
Changcun Pro,lect - Procurement Arrangements
(installed c03t; $ million)
Project Element                              Procurement Method      Total cost
ICB    LIB   Others /b
1.  Mine development                      -       -         54.5          54.5
2.  Civil works                           -       -         39.7           39.7
3.  Plant and equipment                111.2     6.7        73.1          191.0
(111.2)/a (6.7)
4.  Services:  technical
assistance, training, etc.          -       -          8.1           8.1
(8.1)
5.  Pre-production works                  -       -         19.0           19.0
Total                      111.2      6.7      194.4          312.3
(111.2)   (6.7)       (8.1)       (126.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
/b   "Others" include procurement of goods through governmental allocation,
and mine development and civil works being executed by various
construction companies operating under MOCI.
Future Financial Performance and Covenants
82.       Financial projections were prepared for the Luan CIC, absuming that
the average coal price would be gradually raised to the level of LRMC by 1990
in line with the Government's coal price policies, entailing an approximately
86% increase over the current level in real terms. For the first few years,
the price projection reflects the adjustment measures taken recently (or
planned to be taken in 1985), and later an approximation to LRMC. From 1991
onwards, prices are assumed to increase by 3% per annum in current terms to
offset inflation. Financial projections also assume that Luan's production
would increase from 5.8 mtpy in 1984 to 11.7 mtpy in 1994 to account for the
expansion of existing operations and for the proposed project. The projec-
tions show that Luan would continue to achieve a reasonable rate of return on
assets (around 20%), indicating that the assumed increase in coal price is
necessary for Luan to maintain its current financial profitability. The



- 22 -
projections also show that, despite the heavy construction program undertaken
by Luan, the net flow of funds from Luan to the State becomes positive in 1989
on an annual basis, and in 1990 on a cumulative basis; total transfer of funds
to the State for 1985-91 is estimated at Y 929 million, as compared with
State-financed investments of Y 603 million, which leaves a cash balance of
Y 326 million in favor of the State. The financial rate of return in real
terms would be about 9%.
83.       While it is reasonable to project a satisfactory financial perfor-
mance for Luan, there are several uncertainties that could reflect adversely
on its performa.nce. Therefore, the following covenants have been incorporated
in the legal documents relating to financial performance and debt limitation:
(a) the Luan CIC will take or shall cause to be taken all measures to
maintain its gross revenues at least equivalent to its total
operating expenses (including maintenance and administration,
replacement fee, interest and other charges on debt, repayment of
loans, all taxes, allocations to special funds and other cash
distributions of surplus and any other cash outflows) in each fiscal
year starting 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03); and
(b) the Luan CIC will not incur any long-term debt unless its projected
internal cash generation for each year would exceed 1.2 times its
projected total debt service requirement in such year (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.04).
84.       In conjunction with these covenants, assurances have been obtained
that Luan will furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, annual financial statements for the CIC and the project,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.02)- Assurances have also been obtained that the Luan
CIC will review with the Bank by October 31 of each year, commencing October
31, 1985, its 5-year rolling investment plan and financial plan for the next
year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.05).
Benefits and Risks
85.       The project is an important element in the Government's policy to
achieve a production level of 1,200 mtpy by the year 2000, entailing a massive
expansion over the 715 million tonnes produced in 1983. Various actions are
needed to attain this goal, among which the rapid development of modern large-
scale mining units, wherever favorable geological conditions permit, will be
critical. The Changcun Project will provide a model for such development by
introducing advanced technoloc; in a balanced manner, by strengthening
institutional capabilities of the Luan CIC, as well as making a sizeable
contribution to production (about 4.5 mtpy of ROM coal).
86.       The project is well located vis-a-vis China's major consumption
centers. The country's largest and lowest-cost extractable coal deposits lie
in the north, while the largest consumption centers lie in the east, with the
south being particularly deficient in coal. Despite costly transportation
from Shanxi and other northern provinces to eastern and southern China, coal



- 23 -
development plans rightly oall for Shanxi to beoome a major pole of expansion
in ooal mining. In the context of Shanxi's ocal expanaion plans, the proposed
projeot standa out beoause (a) Luan is olose to the south-east edge of Shanxi,
thus relatively olose to the most ooal defioient regiona of the oountry; (b)
the projeot's coal quality is well above average in the oountry and is of a
type (low volatl,e, smokeless fuel) whioh is in short supply nationally; and
(c) the projeot's mining costs are favorable (estimated average annual cost of
$14 per tonne, as compared to LRMC of about $14-18 per tonne).  The projeot is
therefore deemed to be part of a least oost development program nationally.
87.       The economic rate of return of the project would le about 21%.
Capital and operating costs were shadow-priced. With ooal ;:ains a traded
commodity, benefits were estimated on the basis of proje^tzd mine mouth FOB
export prices of Changcun coal reflecting the latest Bank projections.
88.       The project faces no technical risks other than thos" normally asso-
ciated with major underground coal mines, including the safety and environ-
mental aspects. All project activities involve proven technology that has
been in regular use in other parts of the world as well as in China. Although
the country has successfully developed many large mines, the main risks lie in
the possibility of time and cost overruns, ane shortfall in overall produc-
tivity. These risks are being minimized by the training and technical assist-
ance programs to strengthen project management, including scheduling and
monitoring and cost control capabilities. The financial viability of the
project entity depends to a large extent on future increases in coal prices.
The Bank will closely monitor the Government's implementation of its policy to
move coal prices to approach LRMC by the year 1990.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Luan Coal
Industrial Company, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreemen. of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
90.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council shall
have approved the T.oan Agreement and that a satisfactory subsidiary loan
agreement shall have been signed between the Government and the Luan CIC
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
91.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
* Februry 21, 1985
Washington, DC



*            -  25-                                             ANNEX  I
Page I of 6
C 0;E'S mip. -o - SOCS'L TIDtCAT  DA SE
PAY. or                  INC COUP  (UICStD  V3AUCE) 
MOST                 (MM  MCC=   STDIAZ) /b
1940L&      a,iatk                      LW INCUM            k nel t i .rc
*sa  as sq. W)                                            iumutk    ASI                  a            -ACMC
TOtL                                sa1.0       936L.0       9561.0
flIULSIIS                           3237.6      3882.0       2865.9
Em CAPIna (0f                           40.0 /a      80.0        310.0           276.6                   109L.2
(ILCAN  OIF O0L  QUhVALUI)          191.0       250.0        41L20           272.0                    567l.
NN*TO   -  YIT*WL SZTUTIS 
PCMLATZOU.CD-TEZA  (TeUSDso )   6700.O    645700.0   1O00175.0
03M 11 PU1 AION (2 OF TOTAL)          13.4 d        ..         20.6            21.7                     347
* ~~~~nunou auEnauDaOX) lU
VOPUATIOE IN lERU 2000 (lULL)                              1196.3
STATIUO1A  POPULATON (DULL)                                1461.0
rnPOPATII 30350                                               1.7
POPUUTIOU DUNSITY
Pt sq. IN.                           t.9        u.n          xo0.a          166.6                    261.9
S  SQ. IN. "at. LAND              211.1        217.9        256.8           343.5                   1735.1
POPUATION ME STMCUR  (I)
0-14 .RS                           38.9        37.7         30.9            35.8                     39.0
13-64 13S                          56.3         57.2         63.3            59.6                     57.6
65 AND ARM                           4.8         5.1          5.5             4.3                      3.3
POPUMATION GCWVE RATE (I)
TOTS                                 1.2         2.1          1.5             1.9                      2.3
Ulmm                                  ..          ..           ..             4.1                      4.3
CRUDE 3r=  an  (PMM 2300)             39.2 /a     34.0         13.3            27.7                     30.1
CUERIDR RATE (PE T0W3)                23.5        10.1          6.6            10.1                      9.5
IONS aoWacoo. R                       2.8 76       2.3          1.2             1.6                      2.0
1*AN= PLAUKIEC
*ACCORS. ANNUAL (30US)                ..
RS ( o0  IMD  WM)                     ..          ..         69.4  f           ..                     52.7
wO os mmo g
INDE  Of FOOD 11OD. R  CAPrTA
(196-71-100)                            ..       100.0        12A.0           112.8                    123.0
PER APT  SPLT OF
CALORIES (2 oF rUISIENTS)           93.0        a8S.        107.0            97.7                    114.4
PROINS (CRAS PE  DAS)              56.0         53.0         66.0            56.3                     57.0
OF 031CR AIIDAL SAD PUlE.S        16.0        16.0         17.0 1j 14.9                             14.1
CRL8D (ACES 1-4) DEATR RAT            26.0        14.0          7.0             9.8                      7.2
LI! MECT. AT B313R  (TEARS)           41.0 lb     52.3         66.5            60.0                     60.4
IVANr MORE. RATE (U TR0S) *         165.077      109.0         67.0           83.8                      66.3
ACESS TO SArE AMA  (DrO?)
TOL                                   ..          ..         41-0            32.9                     37.0
U..N                                  ..                     SS              70.9                     54.8
UAL                                   .. ..300                             2  .1                      26.4
ESS TO  WETA DISPOSAL
Or POPULATION)
50zAL                                 ' '         ' '          ' *           18.1                     41.3
S                                     ..          ..           ..            72.8                     47.4
REVAL..                                           ..           ..            4.6                      33.3
POPUAZIOM    PRSCL4                6390.0 IL   3830.0 i1   151.O Il        346.2                     7749.4
POI. PER  RSUC PERSON              4050.0       2570.0       1790.0         4793.1                    2460.4
POP. PE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1040.0       760.0        490.0          1066.3                   1044.2
CREA                               210.0          ..        160.0           298.0                    651.2
RURAL                            10140.0          ..       1020.0          5993.4                   2594.6
ARMSSIOuS I       ITnAL                 ..          ..           ..              ..                     27.0
s    v  s   orawsao
AVERaSEIZE2 OP DOUSESOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..          5.2
R;                                    ..          ..          4.2
3.OIA' L                                                      5.5,
AVERSE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
SE.                                  ..           .....
m.                                    ..          .....
CCSS TO LECT. CZ OF WELLIC)
TOML                                 ..           ..
MA                                    ..          ..
ZmA                                   ..          ..           .                ..



ANNEX I
- 26-                                         Page 2 of 6
CHINA. PEOPLE'S RZP. OF - SOC7AL INDICATORS DATA SIm
CBLSA  PEOPLES REP. oF *              SE C GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV9RAG1S) /a
NOST                 (KOST RECEN  ESTINATE) /b
196aLb      197__b    RECEN             LOIW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
ZSTIHATE,0 C   ASIA A PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
RUCTIOR
AWDLSTED LMIOLLMENT RATIOS
fl.U!UY:  TOTAL                    109.0        LL.Q0        ll8.O            97.4                     102.0
HALE                       ..           ..         130.0          110.5                     105.9
rALE                       ..           ..        106.0            83.7                      9.2
SECONDART: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0        '4.0             35.9                      46.0
MALE                       ..           ..         53.0            44. b                     48.7
FNALE                      ..           ..         35.0            26.8                      43.1
VOCATIOKAL (C OF SECONDARY)              ..          ..          2.2             2.2                      17.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..           ..         26.0            38.5                      31.8
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         17.0            18.7                      23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)               43.0 /d        *-          59.0           53.4                      72.9
coMEmwToI
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             ..           ..          0.2             0.9                      10.1
LRADO  RECEIVERSITIOUSAND POP           ..         14.2        183.3           112.1                     113.6
TV IIECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP              ..           0.b         Z7.4           15.7                      50.
NEWSPAPER (DLXLY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCUATION
PER TIOUSAND POPUATION                ..           ..           ..            16.2                      53.9
CIEIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..           ..             3.6                       3.4
LANC     I WON
TOTAL LAIBOR FORCE tTHOUS)        321646.0    380555.0    473468.0
FMAL  (PERCENT)                     38.3         38.0         37.2            33.3                      33.5
A3ICULTURE (PERCENT)                  ..           ..         68.9            69.6                      52.2
INUSmR (PERCENT)                      ..           ..         18.7            15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PZRCZNT)
TOTAL                               46.8         45.0         47.0            42.6                      38.7
nALL                                55.9         54.5         57.2            54.7                      50.9
FERALE                              37.0         35.0         36.0            29.8                     2f66
CODN0!tC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9          t.0          0.8             1.0                       1.1
iMc DImSTRIBIOS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS                                      12. 5                                     22.2
DIGHEST 20. OF EOUSEIOLDS             ..                                o        .                      48.0
LIEST 201 OF HOUSEBOLDS                                        6.8 a                                     6 .4
LOWEST IOX OF DUSEIIOLDS            -                         IS   1                                    15.5
PO_W!           OS
ESTIIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URtz"                                                                        133.9                     188.S
RlUAL                                                                        111.6                     132.0
ZSTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICOME
LEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN.                                ..           ..           ..              ..                     177.9
RDDAL                                                                                                  164.6
ESTDIMAED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (C)
URBA                                                                          43.8                     23.4
ECRAL                                                                         51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APLICABLE
NaO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indlcator are population-elighced aritbmtic  _mes. Coaerag, of countries REg the
indicators depends on availability of data and in not unifom.
/b  Unless othervis- noted. 0Daca fo: 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961  -Data for 1970- between 1969 ed
1971; and data for -Moat Recenc Zetliate' beteen, 1980 and 1982.
ic  Inceepolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964   le 1955-1965 average: If Percatage of all mrried womn of cbhLd beartaz
age practicing contraception;    19 77;  /h 1955-64 avterage;  I Senior doctor of western madlica-;
.1 D1atr:.buciou of people rankeby boae -olde per capita income. 1979 data.
All ponulation and vital statiarics are Bank estimates which differ fro Chinese official atatiatica.
*' Forml edu caion only; non-foreal enrollsent is subetatial.
^e DefiLition and coverage dlffer from COse of COiinea official statistics.
JUNE. 19M



-27-                                                                                             ANNEX 
Page 3 of 6
tees.  ilhehthe des. *e desse  It. .ee....  .e..ee Ilean   h   e   ems.'erltegN   dilll. -t *ts1d ste. Is eeedte tMl  Du                              s e.g ttit  tssessss
d....hl od   sss. es#  t   let 1steeIle    eiilIseea  sset  eedI dfestacssseeSeslltle   heasc   Se.sa.s.    segel..e.ct5
the. seesse  se.  ee  l   these          ..melr  asses m   eh  eehjssi_ se deip se   i .  -aNme' Onso tIl         -Ol es leh t hge  eset     l-sm   Sse shemalr  ive  F5 lt.
*eJe  lnnIesp   s   fgltd*  Ieesa 55          ...sst   at-s whet  'eldale  esse  WWI%t Sit.. et  SiddIe t5, Isshe.  teaseo,  .-     c  usae  cse-tese
e'llle.S  h el           cvte   twdeessh  esesefes se  poesslals  nIghotS4 scIWlls.                    Is. e.s  ltdlles, ad eh         -I aIr Lee:   go,er do 0. h  e-.e,s- I.
ase    e  gsinIe  ISIs.f-M.   .... &     eseh  eseee  9  sgere   We  ehe I           edIsSess  Steds e5 Om Ceel.tetlp .1 bles    Se me cels..%  -,tl- ese  he
Ijtl.es   eqt.       . ...Tbd                                                         .l . 1.tnnJijh .          Id.0g1  III, Pesese let deIde   w  meWsN 0.5pe stg
Wsttletl - trmee   glssslessa   ssssseslt  se... peettefel.tee   saetssss.  ae..ese  stsspelseseee S
teIsalesdt.                                                                           Psetlste. e-     q on.       4-tap .ice-p,see -P.-..tI,Itset
tWISTCPSt!lflSt1e  CMt5 -   .etd elitetl'eagle  ci- tt.0-lela sl  esessee  -I N see Pseeel tets  t5phteaeietf" le
5Id-iile'..iT  ITeUet.s-es.   saste    t  ede.see.                                                   sles.see.edge._.e.   asssee  l-set.   ses1 aStla1 se
tee. sea meet aete.  ~ ~    ~    ~       Iist.a -I...                                               tlit Aed   -te            sa   thtem   5-   dltto        sgee
-.9  .5  me.        slt I. ...   eeAe                   I
___________________I_NJ _______i_ 'm~saue1 F ht.healses   .   e.ted.es.eI.  e   ee
INesPesete   se       ..cc     .ml-tat ..  sts5.t.e........-s.    es  lese   e   smttesds   heelimd.etlr
a  555ad  -ead  Sems aeellt  adFt.t lt                              delIteg,tsstmnp   ttlg   seec eacl 6-sesscee -Lr.mcre  se
psceeteg retteracee.  Watt tasette  Is thee eseleted en el  these sees.1-
teshseesee  i amelet sa Sttltat.teeds  et sl -t '                                                                                                  -st.:"e
lttItlt!LNEtitlttttta  It  tlet  at- ea seesp.ettt esestIt            i*12Iq,1 eldijl4Ij.   teI¶d55j                   tcetea,al            -e Isnt
.s.eellestlmsjsd   ns    seg  mtes,stIl  eg-pslsittml                                 esaee                                     et-ssees   sss-te
temes te   eteeltacesctr sesmeed e  teeseesst leninlest                   cre s.   eeS-S   s.tt...sc.l  tesc  ssmn .....d  ..i
1.epsasto   etcsmP lesI..s .  ......les  th..s.               ees   teeeess  i   aetdltdiisb   eees5   re                                                  drtm    s
seIed       etedahse,msse  cemt   ssseete.edes                                                   emetsee   ecse   esle  tese    s   ssalS  eee
avst  sesistae.Th   te  ces  ieesesseseasse lme   -te                     eee      e  eetsse  Ite   -eW    hicitesmetse  se
Isesetth  Mslee5tieete   t   iteppltat  h   etgedrehs      ee.st   e   ml      egld-sis   ssds
sen   e  tett t   c in1e_et II.reeer5ttmtlet...clsstste   mtests  ns   resdsasrsv   esttte
tne.tstse    eet  - s me  sases i. ss.,sess gavecc eemtee              snlde  aeens  etstlesl, e  lstbs  estelI   ms t-temes  te
Ietate mie thttraae-ev    etlt   c    e   rIss    e.cmi_ **l   im   .'et    lsc   eveeaeseeese
15, ene esmet tee sst seprsdste ses sees i   tnttle.l selts.  tPe esLssIs-sse, ttiIt
ret c. st-lI-tet  5ee .sear    es..t-tc                Z_et  .stse......sees   mces
cem-  .te   ee    tc.sLt  e.,t...ntrs   eelsrvttteessase sesm   vJas   t   es
Petse  S. et!,et.st  ee   -tessed  e   ls  C'.. s -t...e   lee. ..s.t..s   es   detttltesee   bsencde.
-t.   let, tes se  itet as's.t-                                                                                                                                  I
ree.tlsts.se sas tl~~~5~t~t 5t~~tetj - tellttes t,-lt testes.- seshlersIt t C1Letee                                 I l  a
....e,   e     .....   .....ea.n Ineteese  tea-n                                      eseas   ae  .bs.s  pelele     Pae.ets.eess  e-
reenettetra t.Welseet et t                  _sIs  eselsn_ttstet-eltrtntl.
I-s  etmlcs  e  sissaPee-f,ee   tn-e. :ashi.tee  te    hised  sstt cd     seseseetsdeesere  td
resete  eae   e  lenst-  re.-tesm   rssste-sts hdese c...eesehl.se .e.d  Sseest...slse
sceele sses  .t 550-50.  ets-t. ssa  et LdeI.       teleedsels   steste   e   btaetisrftse   me   c
Ifsa  elect  estsesl Ae.5 tsbrh   e   tet    eat.                                           etteI   tse    eeStstnvsem    eh   eeet   tt    e



- 283-                                                  ANlM=  I
pow   of 6
Popul-tlon    i  1.008 milllon (mld-182)
cUP per Capitat 036310 (1932)
CUIWA - UCCogolU I1IDICAYONS
Annual Crouthi () *t Constant Price
Indicator                                     1957-70   1970-77   1978       1979       1080      1931       1982      19Q3       lqa
eettimate)
Production
Gross output
Agrlculture                                 2.2       1.4        9.0      8.6        3.9      64 .        1.fl      9.5
Llht industry                              R.3       7.8       10.8      9.6       18.4      14.1        5.7       R.7
Heavy Industry                             11.6       9.3       15.6      7.7        1.4      -4.7        9.9      12.4
?it Material Product (NMi)                    5.2       4.R       12.4      7.0        6.1       4.R        7.4       4.1
1957      1970      1977       1978      1q79       1980      19a1       19R2       1983
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)   92.2       100.0     102.7      103.3     105.4      111.7     114.6      116.6    l1R.3lb
NMP deflttor        (1970-100)   90.7      100.0      q9.1      100.5     104.5      108.4     110.5      110.. i i. sT
fxehange rate       MY/USS)       2.46       2.46      1.86       1.6R      1.55       1.50      1.71       I.R9      1.9ij
Amount                                                            Average Annual Crowth
1982                  Shares of CDP (Z)                         (2) at Constant Prices
National Accounkt           (S bin)      1957     1979     19RZ      1q95     1990      1457-70   1970-7q   1979-82   1982-90
CDP                          264.5       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           .   5.8              .1 Sl    6.5
Agriculture                 q7.5          ..    32.5     36.q      34.0     29.4         1.6       3.2        5.1       3.2
Industry                   107.0          ..    43.5     40.4      43.0     45.7        12.1       R.9        7.4       R.2
Other                       60.0          ..    24.0     22.7      23.0     24.9         3.5       4.3        0.3       7.R
Consumption                  184.4        76.4    6R.4     69.7      7n.0     71.0         2.7       5.4        5.R       h.8
Investment                    76.0        23.2    32.5     28.7      30.1     29.8         9.8       6.R        n.9       7.0
Exports CUNS                  23.5         3.7/b   6.0      R.9       9.0      9.6         1.61h    R8.Oh    19.          7.s
Imports CNPS                  19.4         3.5OK   6.8      7.1       9.3     10.4         2.A7W     9. 4Th     7.7      11.3
Wational savings              80.1        23.6/c  31.9     30.3      3n.0     29.0
Am 01 O(MP
Public rinance                                                       1957            1979           1981            198)
Current revenues (excluding foreign borrowing)                     28.7           3U.5            31.9            29.1
Current expenditures                                               16.1           22.8            23.3            21.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                       +12.6           +11.7            84.6            47.R
Capital expenditures                                               11.9           16.q             9.9             9.4
Toreign borrowing /d                                                0.7            0.9             1.              0.7
Other Indicators                                                   1957-79         1979-82        19R2-90
CDP growth rate (2)                                                 5.A            5.1             6.5
CDP per capita growth rate (Z)                                      3.8            3.9             5.3
Energy consumptlon growth rate (2)                                  8.5            1.9
ICDR                                                                5.4
Marginal savings rate                                               0.42
Import elasticity                                                   1.6            1.5
/a  NIY basis.
W7 Goods only.
7T  CDS.
7T1  Groso.



ANNEX I
-29 -                                                    Page 5of 6
Population    m  1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capitat USS310 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
(million USS at                Annual trovth rates (Z) (at constant 1980 prices)
current prices)                     Actual                                 Pro ectad
Indicator                               1983         I98O        1981        1982        1983       1984         1985         1986
External Trade
Merchandise export.                22,223           17          16           6          10         14            4             4
Energy                            4,466                      ..                       ..
Other primary                     4,947                                  ..                 ..
Manufactureo                     12,557           .            ..
Other                                253                      ..
Merchandise Imports                18,970           17         -9           10          29        20            10            10
Food                              2,735          ..
Energy                                99                                              ..
Machinery and equipment           3,537           .                       ..
Other                            12,599
Prices
Export price Index (1980-100)                      100         103         99           89        92            96           100
Import price index (1980-100)                      100         105          91          79        82           86             90
Tern of trade index (1980-100)                     100          98         108         113        112          l1            111
Composition of merchandime trade (Z)                      Average annuaL increase (2)
(at current prices )                                  (at constant pries)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1985     1990      I935-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         1.6      8.0      12.9       9.3       4.0
Energy                 25.1      22.9      23.8      20.1        11        0           ..       ..
Other primry            28.4     24.1      22.8      22.3        24       24           .        ..
Manufactures           46.5      47.8      50.5      56.5        60       71                         ..        ..
other                   0.0       5.2       2.9       1.1         5         5          .
Toports                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         2.3      9.4       5.4      19.4      10.0
Food                             19.6      22 5      14 A        16        17
Energy                   0.0      0 0       0.0       0.5         0         8
Machinery and
equipment            27.5      24.2      19.1      18.7        24       25
Other                            56.2      58.5      66.4        60       50
Share of trade with           Share of trade with         Share of trade with countries with
industrial countries (C)       developing countries (1)    centrally planned economies (X) /a
1978    1981    1983          1978    #981    1983               1978       1981      1983
Direction of Trade lb
Exports                        37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1               11.1        3.9        4.7
Imports                        73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2                9.2        4.5        6.4
/.  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.
/b  based on IMF:  "China - Recent Econosie nevelopments," October 1984, p. 90b.



- 30-                                          AMNEX I
FS26 of 6
Population        1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Captta:  US$310  (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYKENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST
(Millions USS at current prices)
Actual                                    PVe5ted
Indicator                                            1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1          17f
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                    15,351    20,901    25,157    25,989    26,389    30.610    33,100    53,300
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  13,656    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    26,180    28,400    45,700
Imports of goods and services                    18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22,448    28,280    32,500    62.600.
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23,620    27.300    52.600
Net transfers                                       596        500        680        412       511        600        600        800
Current account balance                          -2.257    -3,351       1.457      5.60B     4,442      2,930      1.200    -8.500
Foreign direct investment (net)                       -         57        265        359       478        670        750      1,500
MLT Loans (net)                                     800      1,130        416        426       899      1,000      1,200     4,000
Official                                          350        446        479        557       789
Private                                           450        684       -63       -131        110
Other c.pital                                     2,054      2.555        365       -102    -2,481    -2,000    -1,500        1,000
ahange in net reserves C"-" - increase)            -597       -391    -2.503    -6,291    -3,338    -2.600    -1.600         2.000
International reserves                            7,274      7,665    10.168    16,459    19.797    22,400    24,000
of which:  gold                                 5.120      5,120     5,120      5.120      5,120
Reserves am months imports                          4.8        3.7        5.0        9.4       10.6       9.5        7.4
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                                  ..         ..         .
Concessional Loans                                   ..         ..
DAC
OPEC                                               ..         ..
IDA
Other                                              ..         ..
;onconce.ssional Loans                               ..         ..         .          .
Official export credits                            ..         ..
I BRD
Other multilateral                                 ..         ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed                       ..      5,433     5,785      6,058      6,397
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                                   ..         .          .
a   Debt service
Total service payments                             ..         ..         .
Interest                                         ..         ..        .          .
Payments as I exports GNFS                         ..        5.8       8.6/a    10.91a       5.5/a
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)               ..         ..
Average maturity of new loans (years)                ..         ..
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



- 3 -                                  MAN l l
ITATUE Or AMNR ORUP OPKRAITONI  TX THi  PEOPLE'S REPIMZO 0 LIISNA
A,  ITATUNUT 01 BANK LOA   AND IDA CUDITI
(as of leptember 30, 19Ig)
Loan or                                                       US1  million
Credit                                                  Amount  (lae  cancellation)
Number   Year   Borrower               Purpoe           Bank     IDA    Undisbursmd
2021/    1981   People's Republic   Univ. 0ev.          100.0   100.0        84.9
1167             of China
1261     1982   Peopla's Republic   Agric. Dev.            -      60.0       33.9
of China
2207      1982   People's Republic   Parts               69.0       -        65.1
(                                            of China
1297     1982   People's Rapublic   AS. Ed. and            -      75.4       40.2
of China              Research
2226/    1982   People's Republic   Industrial           40.6    30.0        64.3
1313             of China              Credit
2231      1983   People's Republic   Daqing             162.4       -       155.4
of China              Petroleum
2252      1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan          100.8       -       100.0
of China              Petroleum
2261/    1983   People's Republic   Heilongjiang    35.3    45.0             51.0
1347             of China              Land Recla-
mation
1411     1983   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -          85.0        79.5
of China              University
1412     1983   People's Republic   Technical              -      10.0        8.9
of China              Cooperation
1417     1984   People's Republic   Rubber                 -    100.0        89.3
of China              Development
2382      1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Hydro-  145.4           -       142.7
of China              electric
2394     1984   People's Republic   Railway 1           220.0       -       219.5
of Clina
1462     1984   People's Republic   Rural Credit           -     50.0        47.2
of China
1472     1984   People's Republic   Rural Health 5    -           B5.0       78.3
of China              Med. Educ.
2426      1984/a People's Republic   Karamay            100.3       -       100.3
of China              Petroleum
2434/    1984/b People's Republic   Industrial          105.0    70.0       170.8
1491             of China              Credit II
2444/    1984/c People's Republic   Second Agri-    45.3    23.5             68.8
1500             of China              cultural Educ.
1516     1985/d People's Republic   Second Agri-           -      25.0       25.0
of China              cultural Research
Total                               1,124.1   758.9   1,625.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA              1,124.1   758.9
Total undisbursed                           1,087.8   537.3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
None
/a  Became effective on October 9, 1984
/b Became effective on October 9. 1984
7W  Became effective on October 17, 1984
/d  Signed on December 3. 1984; not yet effective.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A Is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is up-
dated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



-32 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
CHANGCUN (LUAN) COAL MINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project  : 3 years
(b)  The project was prepared by                          : MOCI
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank               : November 1981
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project        : November 1981
(e)  Appraisal mission                                    : September 1983
and August/
September 1984
(f)  Completion of negotiations                           : January 1985
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness                           : May 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The project will operate at a production level of not less than 4.0
mtpy and an overall productivity of not less than 4.0 t/ms
(para. 71).
(b) The Luan CIC will carry ouc a geotechnical study with a view to
increasing the length of the longwall faces beyond 185 m and optimiz-
ing the mine layout accordingly (para. 73).
(c) The Luan CIC will maintain a continuous vigil on mine safety and
environment, in the areas of accident statistics, the occurrence of
occupational diseases, gas emission, accidental water inrush, water
effluents, and reclamation of waste dump and subsidence areas
(para. 74).
(d) Training will be carried out for the Luan and Jincheng CICs in
accordance with a program acceptable to the Ban!: (para. 75).
(e) The Luan CIC will take all measures to maintain its gross revenues at
least equivalent to its total operating expenses for each year and
restrict long-term borrowing if the projected debt service coverage
for each year would be less than 1.2 times (para. 83).



- 33 -                          ANNEX I[I
Page 2 of 2
(f) The Luan CIC will review annually with the Bank its five-year rolling
investment plai and financial plan for the next year (para. 84).



Li  5    S   R                                  .                       f             1
¢~  ~ \<)  U"terr^|   S///h8A//AAM  O  N 1                           C)  L I 
N ~         ~           ~ 
-L       "k:                                                                                        M > N . -              A
\   ,     o                              ,               "~~I  /.                  I...'                                 /               orr 
d-  -It              :   ----I;.
A     F      G 1                                                                                                                ^ r 415 tAIr     -.4  _ I
PGH rA9 fI                                                                                                                                     t     Vyer r l  * *    H _o4C  H I/N A
r- If   I _r  
~~~~~COAL FIEfLDSb.le|I!J_
r ~ ~ mo Prdcto  Arrrs                            Naioa    Ccpi;
r Mi wrn ror Pouton Ae                   ;        R.iv.er.s
{MefRod                                           Prvnca   Bourndaries- s--                        *      >                    _ 
~Dobe Gt_ige R oilrod                              nernatinal Banoies-  /'~
?-n onrw*.-gpl*rw^,a                                                                         \                             JJ          z N
*  Th *1.0'1                250        500         750        1000 lURAAA
*   bn  l_4D'Xn *1. n.o0'    oP 9                                                                                               .00
CO    f o ds-norn.wo.,.                                                                                  L        !  iP    S   ..
''~L _ -~1 ""0 dl' 00                                                                                                          v in' 
CHANGCU W OM ota N.  I!                                  *,.*,i*. 
Coo               200           400 Areo 6l                                  | 04 0EAC ATC
Roods1~0,0                                 Prvnco   Bonois7.e                                               , . ..  
M ILOETS                                                                  REP     VIC
0   250   500   750      1000                       |' bUR~~~~MAII-Ar4D
C0ANGOUN 200AN) COAL MINE PROJECT                                       i,  ,. :L
~~ii/l ~ ~                I                                                      - -           



PUOPL S                     JAA
4m    AC4). PORT              \                       55R 
o_--  {,,s.\  H  )  -s?                                                                        .~~--
,,,,, .      ,P..H ILIPP eINE S
_.- 9 | *_ 5 DEhOCRATAC
z                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA PAN
l,,                 ,1}                          B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I.
vo. /"rnk  ~~~
.   >;1  \  i  \  j  .g Stid~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GH/ S5t~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Dw?   e>@ti N/                            yl>N
_e  X ,,_ /  /    fSti°gsp; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                               3r
0          I ' _          -         f            )
;,                                                                     PH.ILIPPINES'S  H        H J   ' 
;;______________________                 __________           I                                                       FE RU      1 8



