Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4623-GE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(First Development Policy Operation) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 3, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4623-GE 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 3, 2009, entered into between GEORGIA (“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose 
of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter 
alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and 
the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty 
seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 57,200,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
16 Gorgasali Street 
Tbilisi 0114 
Georgia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+99532-262422 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Kakha Baindurashvili 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Asad Alam 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has developed a strategy on public finances, which provides a 
framework for the coordination of reforms and an integrated approach to improving the 
public finance system. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has piloted results-oriented budgets, including strategic directions, 
costing, and performance indicators for at least one program, in three ministries. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has taken preparatory steps to develop a multi-year public 
investment program by: (a) revising the budget circular to include proposals on non-
financial assets; (b) introducing a training program in capital budgeting principles in 
budget departments to prepare, assess, and manage public investment projects; and (c) 
piloting preparation of the public investment program summary for two first-level 
spending units based on the 2009 budget. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has transferred administration of IDP benefits and child welfare 
allowances to the Social Services Agency and integrated their budgets into the MoLHSA. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has improved the effectiveness of targeted social assistance (TSA) 
by:  
(a) increasing the amount of the TSA benefit and securing adequate budgetary funding; 
and (b) preparing a monitoring report on the performance of the TSA program. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has expanded coverage of medical insurance program (MIP) 
targeted to the poor from 750,000 to 900,000 beneficiaries and adopted publicly co-
financed health insurance for population not covered by MIP. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has strengthened public stewardship of health sector by 
establishing a stakeholder forum to oversee implementation of state-funded programs by 
health insurance companies and developing a draft standardized classification system for 
reporting. 
 
8. 
The Recipient has introduced an e-filing system covering all taxes and available 
to all taxpayers, as part of a program to streamline the tax payment system. 
 
9. 
The Recipient has developed selection criteria and tested software for a risk-
based tax audit system. 
 
Page  7
6
10. 
The Recipient has introduced the risk management system at customs, including 
yellow and red corridors for all declarations and green and blue corridors for firms on the 
Gold List. 
 
11. 
The Recipient has: (a) adopted a concept of reform of the statistics system, 
including principles of independence, professionalism, technical capacity of staff, 
integrity and accuracy of statistics; and (b) submitted to Parliament the new draft law on 
state statistics, including provisions for an independent statistics office governed by a 
supervisory board, the adoption of internationally recognized statistical methods, and 
improved skills of staff. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
57,200,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
57,200,000 
 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  8
7
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2019 to and including March 15, 2029 
 
5% 
__________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
Page  11
10 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Gold List” means the list of importing entities with a sound established 
track record of customs compliance as defined by the Ministry of Finance. 
 
4. 
“IDP” means the persons internally displaced as a result of the August 2008 
conflict as well as previous conflicts. 
 
5. 
“Ministry of Finance” the ministry of finance of the Recipient, or any 
successor thereof. 
 
6. 
“MoLHSA” means the ministry of labor, health and social affairs of the 
Recipient, or any successor thereof. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 28, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association 
Page  12
11 
 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
8. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Social Services Agency” means the social services agency of MoLHSA. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  13
12 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
Page  14
13 
 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
