Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4834 
Project Name 
Georgia: First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%); General industry and 
trade sector (35%); Other social services (15%); Health (15%) 
Project ID 
P112700 
Borrower(s) 
Georgia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
June 1, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 2, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Georgia implemented far-reaching reforms with impressive results from 2004 through mid-2008.  
Reforms were undertaken to strengthen public finances, improve the business environment, upgrade 
infrastructure services, and improve social services.  As a result, economic growth averaged in excess of 
9
percent per year during this period.  At the same time, significant challenges remained in creating the 
conditions to continue along a trajectory of sustained economic growth with an effective social safety 
net. 
 
The double shocks resulting from the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis 
have resulted in deterioration in investor and consumer confidence, contraction of liquidity in the 
banking system, infrastructure damage, and increased numbers of internally displaced persons (IDPs).  
The impact has been a downturn in investment and economic growth, stress on public finances from 
revenue shortfalls and increased expenditure needs, and stress on balance of payments due to a 
slowdown in FDI and other private capital inflows.  Economic growth, at 2.1 percent in 2008, represents 
a
sharp slowdown from rapid growth in excess of 9 percent during the preceding four years. 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The proposed First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1) is the first in a proposed series of three 
programmatic development policy operations intended to support the Gover
nment of Georgia’s policy 
reform program to (i) mitigate the impact of the economic downturn in the short-term; and (ii) facilitate 
recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium-term.  Toward addressing these dual 
challenges facing Georgia, in addition to a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework, the main 
policy areas supported are: (i) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public finances; (ii) 
improving the effectiveness of the social safety net; and (iii) improving external competitiveness. 
 
The macroeconomic and fiscal framework includes a scaling up and reallocation of public expenditures 
to implement a countercyclical fiscal response to the downturn.  Improved efficiency and effectiveness 
of public finances are directed at ensuring that public expenditures are most effectively stimulating 
economic recovery and creating the conditions for growth in the medium term.  Improved effectiveness 
of the social safety net is directed at cushioning the impact of the downturn and ensuring that the 
Page  2
benefits of post-crisis growth are broadly shared.  Improved external competitiveness is directed at 
ensuring that a vibrant and competitive private sector supports economic recovery and serves as the 
engine of post-crisis growth in the medium term. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed DPO is anchored in a strong Government program to respond to the crisis in the short 
term and implement key structural reforms in the medium term.  In response to the double shocks of the 
August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis, the authorities have adopted a number 
of sound measures to address the fallout and mitigate the impact of the downturn.  These include scaling 
up of public expenditures, reallocating expenditures toward social and infrastructure investments, 
providing liquidity and regulatory support to the banking sector, and working with the international 
community to secure donor assistance. 
 
The Government’s response to the crisis has received broad support from the international community.  
Following the crisis, in 2008, the Government received international financial support from an IMF 
Stand-By Program for $750 million, and general budgetary support from the World Bank ($40 million), 
the Asian Development Bank ($70 million), and the US Treasury ($250 million).  In October 2008, 
following a “Joint Needs Assessment” led by the World Bank and the United Nations (with the 
collaboration of ADB, EC, EBRD, EIB, and IFC) and an International Donor Conference in Brussels, 
Georgia received financial pledges from the international community of $4.5 billion over three years, 
including $850 million for the banking sector.  The IMF program is on track with all performance 
criteria and benchmarks met: the Second Review was approved on March 23, 2009 and a Third Review 
is now in progress.  Financial pledges by the international community are on track to being delivered. 
 
The Government’s medium term structural reform program includes addressing key development 
challenges, including: (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) strengthening the social safety net, 
by expanding coverage of the targeted social assistance program and expanding access to health care 
financing for the poor and vulnerable; (iii) continuing to reduce the burden of the state on the economy 
and improve public service delivery; (iv) upgrading infrastructure, transport and trade logistics services; 
(v) continuing to upgrade skills of the labor force; and (vi) upgrading institutions by implementing 
reforms aimed at strengthening the rule of law, modernizing the enforcement system, and by improving 
mechanisms to protect property rights. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Amount: SDR 57.2 million (US$85 million equivalent), single tranche, disbursed upon effectiveness. 
IDA terms: 20-year maturity including a 10-year grace period 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will act as the main coordinator for managing the overall implementation of the 
DPO program.  The Ministry also actively participates in implementing the overall strategic goals of the 
Government’s “United Georgia without Poverty” reform program.  The primary implementing line 
agencies for the DPO program are: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development, 
and the Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social Affairs. 
 
The monitoring of the reform program will be carried out through regular reviews and in the context of 
the supervision of this operation.  Progress in the implementation of policy measures will be further 
monitored through other Bank financed projects, including those that complement actions supported 
Page  3
under the DPO program.  The monitoring of public sector reforms as well as public expenditures in 
social sectors is of particular importance to the Government. 
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
In order to mitigate the impact of the downturn in the short term, the proposed DPO is supporting a 
number of objectives.  First, the macroeconomic and fiscal framework has scaled up public expenditures 
and reallocated expenditures toward social and infrastructure investments to implement a 
countercyclical fiscal response to the economic downturn.  Second, the amount of the targeted social 
assistance (TSA) benefit has been increased, the coverage of the targeted medical insurance program 
(MIP) has been expanded, and a new publicly co-financed health insurance program has been introduced 
for those not covered by MIP. 
 
In order to facilitate recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium term, first, 
improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures are directed at ensuring that the higher and better 
allocated public expenditures are most effectively stimulating economic recovery and creating the 
conditions for growth in the medium term.  Second, the effectiveness of public investment is being 
enhanced to create the infrastructure necessary for sustained economic growth in the medium term.  
Third, tax and customs reforms are improving external competitiveness by further reducing the burden 
of tax payment and streamlining customs procedures.  Fourth, the effectiveness of the social safety net is 
being improved to ensure that the benefits of growth in the medium term are broadly shared. 
 
Georgia faces a number of significant but manageable risks and vulnerabilities, including: (i) a sharper 
decline in capital inflows and exports than currently projected resulting from the uncertain global 
economic outlook; (ii) possible shortfalls of planned donor assistance due to the effects of the global 
economic downturn on donor countries; (iii) financial sector vulnerabilities; and (iv) a rise in domestic 
or regional political tensions further undermining investor confidence and affecting implementation of 
reforms.  Should these risks be realized, they would increase the depth and duration of the economic 
downturn and require greater external adjustment, a possible downscaling of expenditure plans, and 
additional donor assistance.  At this time, most pledges of donor assistance are on track to being 
delivered.  Structural reforms to address fina
ncial sector vulnerabilities are part of Georgia’s SBA 
program with the IMF.  On mitigating regional tensions, mediation efforts are ongoing, with support 
from the international community and bilateral partners. Domestically, while the opposition has been 
increasingly vocal in disagreeing with the current administration, the protests have been largely 
peaceful. The Government’s efforts to respond quickly to the needs of IDPs and others affected by the 
August conflict and the global economic crisis has helped to mitigate political tensions which might 
otherwise have risen on those counts. 
 
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The DPO program is designed to mitigate the impact of the current economic downturn on the poor and 
to improve living standards in Georgia over the medium term.  First, the overall macroeconomic and 
fiscal framework includes significant reallocation of expenditures, which is creating fiscal space for 
increased social protection and health expenditures.  Second, reforms to scale up the social safety net 
while maintaining targeting efficiency are expected to have the greatest immediate effect in supporting 
incomes of the poor during the economic downturn.  Third, in the medium term, reforms to facilitate 
economic recovery and post-crisis growth are expected to be the driving force behind improved living 
standards. 
 
Page  4
This operation does not require an environmental assessment, as the DPO supported reforms are not 
expected to have either a direct or an indirect significant negative impact on the environment.  The 
reforms to the business environment supported by the DPO program focus on further streamlining tax 
administration to reduce the burden on the economy and improving customs administration 
infrastructure and hence do not weaken the institutions and regulations with respect to environmental 
protection.  In general, experts observe that while the regulatory framework on the environment in 
Georgia is broadly aligned with international standards for the level of economic development of 
Georgia, the implementation of this framework can be strengthened.  Strategic priorities in 
environmental protection for a three year period are explicitly stated in the Basic Data and Directions 
(BDD) document of the Government of Georgia comprising strategic objectives and budgeted activities 
for all sectors. 
 
7. Contact point 
 
Faruk Khan 
Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4764 
Email: 
fkhan5@worldbank.org
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
