                                            Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                             Report No. 48437-GE



                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                     PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                FOR A

                                        PROPOSED CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 57.2 MILLION
                                (US$85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                                             GEORGIA

                                                FOR A

                         FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION


                                             June 3, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

           GEORGIA - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 ­ December 31

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 3, 2009)

             Currency Unit               Lari
               US$1.00                 1.6407

                   Weights and Measures
                        Metric System


           ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
EC         European Commission
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB        European Investment Bank
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GNP        Gross National Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
JSAN       Joint Staff Advisory Note
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MoE        Ministry of Economic Development
MoES       Ministry of Education and Science
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MoLHSA     Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social Affairs
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PER        Public Expenditure Review
ROSC       Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
UNDP       United Nations Development Program




               Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
            Country Director: Asad Alam
              Sector Director: Luca Barbone
              Sector Manager: Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin
           Task Team Leader: Faruk Khan

                                                        GEORGIA

                                 FIRSTDEVELOPMENTPOLICY OPERATION

                                            TABLEOFCONTENTS


   OPERATION AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ............................................................................................ 1
   I.        INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................................ 3
   II.       COUNTRY CONTEXT................................................................................................................... 5
                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS............................................................................................... 5
                MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................... 9
                POVERTY DEVELOPMENTS.................................................................................................. 11
   III.      THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES........................ 12
   IV.       BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM..................................................... 13
                LINK TO CPS AND OTHER BANK TASKS ........................................................................... 13
                COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS.............................................. 14
                LESSONS LEARNED................................................................................................................ 15
   V.        THE PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION................ 16
                PILLAR 1: IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF PUBLIC
                            FINANCES........................................................................................................... 17
                PILLAR 2: IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET... 24
                PILLAR 3: IMPROVING EXTERNAL COMPETITIVENESS......................................... 31
   VI.       OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION............................................................................................. 38
                IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ................................................. 38
                POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS ....................................................................................... 38
                ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................................................................ 39
                FIDUCIARY ASPECTS............................................................................................................. 40
                DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ........................................................................................ 41
                RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION............................................................................................. 41


                                                           ANNEXES

   ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY................................................................................ 43
   ANNEX 2: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX............................................................................................. 48
   ANNEX 3: MATRIX OF OUTCOMES / MONITORABLE INDICATORS............................................ 53
   ANNEX 4: IMF ASSESSMENT LETTER (as updated on June 24, 2009) ............................................... 55
   ANNEX 5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE....................................................................................................... 58




The proposed First Development Policy Operation was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Arman Vatyan, Aleksandra
Posarac, Owen Smith, Nino Moroshkina, Jaanus Pikani, Nino Kutateladze, Tatyana Kandelaki, Mariam Dolidze, Martin
Darcy, Bernard Myers, Hannah Koilpillai, Ghada Youness, Rosalinda Quintanilla, and Faruk Khan. The team gratefully
acknowledges the excellent collaboration of the Georgian authorities, development partners, as well as the support and
guidance of Asad Alam, Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, Van Roy Southworth, Anthony Cholst, Luca Barbone, Kazi Mahbub-Al
Matin, Ronald Myers, Erika Jorgensen, and Saumya Mitra. Sarah Babirye, Militsa Khoshtaria, and Lela Ghongadze
assisted the team.

                   OPERATION AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
                                         GEORGIA
                   FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION

Recipient           Georgia
Implementing Agency Ministry of Finance
Financing Data      IDA terms: 20-year maturity including a 10-year grace period
                    Amount: SDR 57.2 million (US$85 million equivalent)
Operation Type      Programmatic Development Policy Operation (DPO)
Main Policy Areas   The First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1) is the first in a
                    proposed series of three programmatic development policy operations
                    intended to support the Government of Georgia's policy reform program
                    to (i) mitigate the impact of the economic downturn in the short-term;
                    and (ii) facilitate recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in
                    the medium-term. In addition to a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal
                    framework, the main policy areas supported are: (i) improving the
                    efficiency and effectiveness of public finances; (ii) improving the
                    effectiveness of the social safety net; and (iii) improving external
                    competitiveness.
Key Outcome         The macroeconomic and fiscal framework includes a scaling up and
Indicators          reallocation of public expenditures to implement a countercyclical fiscal
                    response to the downturn. Improved efficiency and effectiveness of
                    public finances are directed at ensuring that public expenditures are most
                    effectively stimulating economic recovery and creating the conditions for
                    growth in the medium term. Improved effectiveness of the social safety
                    net is directed at cushioning the impact of the downturn and ensuring that
                    the benefits of post-crisis growth are broadly shared. Improved external
                    competitiveness is directed at ensuring that a vibrant and competitive
                    private sector supports economic recovery and serves as the engine of
                    post-crisis growth in the medium term.
Program Development The proposed operation supports the objectives of the Government's
Objective(s) and    policy reform program, which are to mitigate the impact of the downturn
Contribution to CAS in the short-term and facilitate recovery and prepare Georgia for post-
                    crisis growth in the medium term. These development objectives are
                    central to the 2010-2013 Country Partnership Strategy currently under
                    preparation and are consistent with the 2006-2009 CPS (and with the
                    CPS Progress Report approved in May 2008).
Risks and Risk      Georgia faces a number of significant but manageable risks and
Mitigation          vulnerabilities, including: (i) a sharper decline in capital inflows and
                    exports than currently projected resulting from the uncertain global
                    economic outlook; (ii) possible shortfalls of planned donor assistance due
                    to the effects of the global economic downturn on donor countries; (iii)
                    financial sector vulnerabilities; and (iv) a rise in domestic or regional
                    political tensions further undermining investor confidence and affecting
                    implementation of reforms. Should these risks be realized, they would
                    increase the depth and duration of the economic downturn and require
                    greater external adjustment, a possible downscaling of expenditure plans,
                    and additional donor assistance. At this time, most pledges of donor
                    assistance are on track to being delivered. Structural reforms to address
                    financial sector vulnerabilities are part of Georgia's SBA program with

               the IMF. On mitigating regional tensions, mediation efforts are ongoing,
               with support from the international community and bilateral partners.
               Domestically, while the opposition has been increasingly vocal in
               disagreeing with the current administration, the protests have been
               largely peaceful. The Government's efforts to respond quickly to the
               needs of IDPs and others affected by the August conflict and the global
               economic crisis has helped to mitigate political tensions which might
               otherwise have risen on those counts.
Operation ID   P112700




                                       2

                           IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A
              PROPOSED FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION
                                          TO GEORGIA


                                    I.      INTRODUCTION

1.      The First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1) is the first in a proposed series
of three programmatic development policy operations for Georgia. This follows
successful completion in 2008 of the PRSO series which supported far-reaching reforms over
the past four years with impressive results. The proposed Development Policy Operation
(DPO) series is the central component supporting structural reforms in Georgia of the
upcoming Country Partnership Strategy covering 2010-13.1 The proposed first DPO, in the
amount of $85 million equivalent, supports the strategic developmental objectives of the
Government's medium term reform program described in the poverty reduction strategy
entitled United Georgia without Poverty, supplemented by the document Program of the
Government of Georgia presented to the Parliament in December 2008, and the document
Basic Data and Directions 2010-2013.

2.      The proposed DPO is directed at supporting reforms to (i) mitigate the impact of
the economic downturn in the short-term; and (ii) facilitate recovery and prepare
Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium-term. Strong reforms following the Rose
Revolution in 2003 led to four years of rapid economic growth during 2004 through mid-
2008, although significant challenges remained in creating the conditions to continue along a
trajectory of sustained economic growth with an effective social safety net. Furthermore, the
growth momentum over the last four years has been interrupted by the severe double shocks to
the economy from the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis. This
has led to the dual challenge of mitigating the impact of the downturn in the short term and
facilitating recovery and creating the conditions for post-crisis growth with an effective social
safety net in the medium term.

3.      Toward addressing the dual challenges facing Georgia, the proposed DPO
program supports a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework and key reforms
in three policy areas. For operational purposes, in addition to a satisfactory macro-fiscal
framework, the program is organized into three reform pillars: (i) improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of public finances; (ii) improving the effectiveness of the social safety net;
and (iii) improving external competitiveness.

4.      In order to mitigate the impact of the downturn in the short term, the proposed
DPO is supporting a number of objectives. First, under the macroeconomic and fiscal
framework, public expenditures have been scaled up and reallocated toward social and
infrastructure investments to implement a countercyclical fiscal response to the economic
downturn. Second, the amount of the targeted social assistance (TSA) benefit has been
increased, the coverage of the targeted medical insurance program (MIP) has been expanded,



1See Georgia--Country Partnership Strategy: Upstream Review Note, March 20, 2009, the World Bank.

                                                   3

and a new publicly co-financed health insurance program has been introduced for those not
covered by MIP.

5.      In order to facilitate recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in the
medium term, the proposed DPO is supporting another set of important objectives.
First, improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures are directed at ensuring that the
higher and better allocated public expenditures are most effectively stimulating economic
recovery and creating the conditions for growth in the medium term. This will also free up
resources to finance private sector growth in an environment where foreign capital inflows are
expected to remain scarce. Second, the effectiveness of public investment is being enhanced
to create the infrastructure necessary for sustained economic growth in the medium term.
Third, tax and customs reforms are improving external competitiveness by further reducing
the burden of tax payment and streamlining customs procedures. Fourth, the effectiveness of
the social safety net is being improved to ensure that the benefits of growth in the medium
term are broadly shared.

6.      The proposed DPO is anchored in a strong Government program to respond to
the crisis in the short term and implement key structural reforms in the medium term.
In response to the double shocks of the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global
economic crisis, the authorities have adopted a number of sound measures to address the
fallout and mitigate the impact of the downturn. These include scaling up of public
expenditures, reallocating expenditures toward social and infrastructure investments,
providing liquidity and regulatory support to the banking sector, and working with the
international community to secure donor assistance.

7.      The Government's response to the crisis has received broad support from the
international community. In September 2008, the Government received international
financial support from an IMF Stand-By Program for $750 million, and general budgetary
support from the World Bank ($40 million) and the Asian Development Bank ($70 million).
By end-2008, the US Treasury provided additional budgetary support ($250 million). In
October 2008, following a Joint Needs Assessment led by the World Bank and the United
Nations (with the collaboration of ADB, EC, EBRD, EIB, and IFC) and an International
Donor Conference in Brussels, Georgia received financial pledges from the international
community of $4.5 billion over three years, including $850 million for the banking sector.
The IMF program is on track with all performance criteria and benchmarks met: the Second
Review was approved on March 23, 2009 and a Third Review is now in progress. Financial
pledges by the international community are on track to being delivered.

8.      The Government's medium term structural reform program addresses key
development challenges (see Section IV). The areas of the Government's reform program
include: (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) strengthening the social safety net
particularly expanding coverage of the extreme poor by the Targeted Social Assistance
program and expanding access to health care financing of the poor; (iii) continuing to reduce
the burden of the state on the economy and improve public service delivery; (iv) upgrading
infrastructure, transport and trade logistics services; (v) continuing to upgrade skills of the
labor force; and (vi) upgrading institutions by implementing reforms aimed at strengthening
the rule of law, modernizing the enforcement system, and by improving mechanisms to
protect property rights. The Government's reform program also includes measures to advance

                                               4

on Georgia's NATO membership aspirations, territorial and civil reintegration, and deepening
EU integration.

9.      The Government's medium-term structural reform program is being supported
by many development partners including the European Commission, USAID, the US
Treasury, ADB, SIDA, Japan, the Netherlands, and others. The Dutch Government has
confirmed its intention to co-finance the proposed first DPO in an amount to be defined. The
Asian Development Bank is committed to providing budgetary support, as is the European
Commission. The Bank is focusing the DPO on areas where it has comparative advantage and
by working closely with other development partners, is leveraging resources, expertise, and
technical support. With the Government having strong ownership of the reforms supported by
the DPO (which are part of a broader Government reform program) with close collaboration
of development partners, the Government of Georgia is in the driver's seat in these reforms
efforts. This strong ownership ensures implementation and safeguards sustainability of the
reforms supported by the DPO.


                               II.    COUNTRY CONTEXT

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
10.     During much of the first decade of transition after the break-up of the former
Soviet Union, Georgia was one of the poorest performing economies in the Europe and
Central Asia region. In 2003, real GDP was at about 40% of its 1989 level and Georgia was
a weak state, with accumulating unpaid pensions and wages, electricity service limited to a
few hours per day and mostly to the capital city, weak public finances, and pervasive
corruption.

11.     From 2004 through mid-2008, Georgia implemented far-reaching reforms with
impressive results. Significant reforms were undertaken to strengthen public finances,
improve the business environment, upgrade infrastructure services, and improve social
services. As a result, economic growth averaged in excess of 9 percent per year during 2004
through mid-2008. A key driver of this growth was substantial inflows of foreign direct
investment (FDI), which increased from $542 million (8.5 percent of GDP) in 2005 to $1.67
billion (16.4 percent of GDP) in 2007, and continued to remain strong through mid-2008.
This was made possible by strengthening investor confidence resulting from improvements to
the business environment, with Georgia's rank among the World Bank's Doing Business
indicators improving from 112th place in 2005 to 15th place in 2008. In addition, far-reaching
trade liberalization was implemented in 2007, which made Georgia one of the most open
trading regimes in the world, with a very low average tariff and with 91 percent of product
lines subject to a zero tariff.

12.     A key pillar of growth and stability in Georgia from 2004 through mid-2008 was
its strengthening public finances. As a result of tax reform and effective anti-corruption
measures, tax revenues increased from 14.6 percent of GDP in 2003 to 25.8 percent of GDP in
2007. This major achievement allowed the government to increase social spending by more
than 5 percent of GDP and undertake strategic infrastructure investments which in turn
contributed to the strong growth performance of the private sector. Budget execution and
public financial management systems improved significantly during this period, particularly

                                              5

through the implementation of the Treasury Single Account. Effective public debt
management led to steady improvement in debt burden indicators, with external public debt
declining from 45 percent of GDP in 2003 to 17.6 percent of GDP in 2007.

Crisis and Short-Term Response to Mitigate Impact

13.       The double shocks resulting from the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent
global economic crisis have resulted in a sharp downturn in growth. The conflict of
August 2008 in Georgia and the subsequent global economic crisis resulted in a number of
significant shocks to growth and stability, including a deterioration in investor and consumer
confidence, contraction of liquidity in the banking system, infrastructure damage, and
increased numbers of internally displaced persons (IDPs). The impact of these shocks has
been a significant decline in investment and economic growth, stress on public finances from
revenue shortfalls and increased expenditure needs, and stress on balance of payments due to a
sharp slowdown in FDI and other private capital inflows. Economic growth, at 2.1 percent in
2008 and projected at -1.5 percent in 2009, represents a sharp slowdown from rapid growth in
excess of 9 percent during the preceding four years. The economy contracted by 4 percent and
2.5 percent during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The downturn is expected to ease in
2010, although this is associated with increased uncertainty due to the deteriorating external
environment. Inflation (end-of-period), at 5.5 percent for 2008 and projected 3.5 percent for
2009, is down significantly from higher inflation before the August conflict.

14.       The Georgian authorities responded swiftly to the shocks with a macroeconomic
policy mix directed at mitigating the economic downturn, restoring investor confidence
and economic growth, and maintaining macroeconomic stability in the medium term. In
particular, the authorities relaxed the fiscal stance to implement a countercyclical response to
the shocks, provided immediate liquidity and regulatory support to the banking sector, and

                        TABLE 1. GEORGIA: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2003-2012
                                                  2003            2006       2007      2008p      2009z   2010z 2011z 2012z

 GNI per capita (US$, atlas method)                 860           1,670      2,090      2,480      2,610  2,750 2,850 2,920
 Unemployment Rate                                 11.5            13.6       13.3       14.0       16.5   16.0  15.0  14.0
 GDP Growth Rate                                   11.1              9.4      12.3        2.1        -1.5   2.0   5.0   5.0
 CPI (e.o.p.)                                        7.0             8.8      11.0        5.5         3.5   4.5   6.0   6.0
                                                                     percent of GDP, except where noted
 Revenues and Grants                               16.0            26.8       29.3       30.7       28.0   26.9  26.2  26.0
 Tax Revenues                                      14.6            22.8       25.8       24.9       23.6   23.0  22.5  23.0
 Expenditure and Net Lending                       17.5            29.8       34.0       37.0       36.3   32.7  30.1  28.7
 Current Expenditure                               14.7            22.2       25.0       28.5       28.7   26.0  24.5  23.5
 Capital Expenditure and Net Lending                 2.8             7.6        9.0       8.6         7.6   6.7   5.7   5.1
 Overall Fiscal Balance                             -1.5            -3.0       -4.7      -6.3        -8.2  -5.8  -3.9  -2.7
 Privatization Receipts                              0.4             5.2        5.2       3.7         2.3   1.0   0.7   0.4
 External Current Account Balance                   -9.6          -15.1      -19.7      -22.2      -16.1  -15.5 -13.6 -13.2
 Exports of Goods and Services                     32.3            32.9       31.3       28.7       25.6   29.3  30.7  31.6
 Imports of Goods and Services                     46.7            56.9       58.1       58.3       48.2   51.5  50.4  50.6
 FDI Inflows                                         8.3           15.3       16.4        9.6         8.3   9.7  10.9  11.9
 FDI Inflows (M US$)                                331           1,186      1,667      1,239        935  1,077 1,326 1,563
 Intl Reserves (Mo of Impts of G&S)                  1.2             2.4        2.8       2.4         3.6   3.7   3.7   3.5
 Intl Reserves (M US$)                              191             881      1,361      1,481      1,641  1,781 1,868 1,944
 External Public Debt 1/                           44.9            21.9       17.6       20.9       30.9   35.9  34.8  32.7


 Notes: p=preliminary; z=projections; 1/ public and publicly guaranteed
 Source: Georgian authorities and World Bank staff estimates


                                                                       6

worked with the international community to arrange swift donor support. Public expenditures
increased from 34 percent of GDP in 2007 to 37 percent in 2008 while revenue collection
suffered, with tax revenues falling from 25.8 percent of GDP in 2007 to 24.9 percent in 2008.
As a result, the overall fiscal deficit widened to 6.3 percent of GDP in 2008 and was financed
through a mix of privatization proceeds and donor support. In recognition of the
government's swift and effective post-conflict recovery program, the international community
has pledged significant budgetary and investment support to meet Georgia's financing needs
over the next three years. The EBRD and the IFC have also pledged support to meet the
liquidity needs of the banking sector.

15.     The fiscal stimulus has been associated with a marked reallocation in
expenditures; and the authorities remain committed to their medium term vision of a
smaller government. Public expenditures on defense have been cut back since the second
half of 2008, thus freeing up resources for priority social and infrastructure investments. The
authorities remain committed to a conservative fiscal stance in the medium term. Public
expenditures as a share of GDP are expected to decline when a resumption of capital inflows
and a pick up in investor sentiment allow growth to recover. Reforms to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures are also expected to help in facilitating
fiscal adjustment.

16.     As private inflows have fallen, official transfers have increasingly financed
external balances, and a significant IMF program was initiated to bolster investor
confidence and support international reserves. Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows
fell from more than 16 percent of GDP in 2007 to about 10 percent of GDP in 2008.
Following the August conflict, an IMF mission prepared a Standby Arrangement (SBA) for
$750 million over 18 months which was approved by its Board on September 15, 2008. The
First Review of the SBA was completed on December 15, 2008, the Second Review was
completed on March 23, 2009, and a Third Review is currently in progress. In the immediate
aftermath of the August 2008 conflict, in response to weakening investor and consumer
confidence, the authorities took effective measures to stabilize the payments system, including
through supporting the exchange rate. Subsequently, the authorities implemented a step
depreciation to 1.65 Lari per dollar in November 2008, but continued to intervene to support
the exchange rate over the following months. In March 2009, the authorities introduced an
auction based system for the foreign exchange market to reinforce their commitment to a
flexible exchange rate to support external sustainability.

Medium-term reform challenges for recovery and post-crisis growth

17.     Although strong reforms over the last four years have improved Georgia's long
run growth potential, significant challenges remain. The level of real GDP in Georgia is
significantly below levels in the new EU member states. In addition, while social services and
non-income dimensions of poverty have improved, strong growth has not yet been
accompanied by net job creation or a sustained reduction of consumption-based poverty.
Strong growth has also not yet been accompanied by rapid growth of exports that would signal
a significant improvement in Georgia's external competitiveness. Furthermore, the double
shocks of the August 2008 conflict and the global economic crisis have undermined investor
confidence and capital inflows in Georgia. Beyond the immediate mitigating measures,


                                                 7

facilitating recovery and creating the conditions for post-crisis growth in the medium term
will require structural reforms to achieve a number of key objectives.

18.     First, Georgia will need to improve the effectiveness with which its higher and
better allocated public expenditures are stimulating economic recovery and creating the
conditions for growth in the medium term. Given the scaling up and reallocation of public
expenditures, the priority at this point is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness with
which these inputs generate the necessary outputs to support economic recovery and to create
the conditions for growth in the medium term. Greater efficiency will also allow public
expenditures to be reduced over time and thereby free up resources for private investment to
again become the primary engine of economic growth.

19.     Second, Georgia will need to improve its external competitiveness, to facilitate
recovery and to ensure that post-crisis growth increasingly comes from the tradable
sectors, which is necessary for sustained growth over time. Georgia's export share of GDP
has remained relatively stable at about 31-34 percent during 2004 to mid-2008, with growth
driven primarily by non-tradables, including construction, telecommunications, finance, and
other services. While this is not uncommon in a transition economy beginning a period of
sustained economic growth, in order for growth to be sustained, Georgia needs to further
diversify economic activity into the tradable sector. This will require sufficient exchange rate
flexibility and further structural reforms to address impediments to external competitiveness.
A quick diagnosis of the business environment in Georgia indicates that two dimensions along
which Georgia lags its overall rating are the ease of paying taxes and the costs of trading
across borders.2 The DPO, therefore, supports reforms to reduce the administrative burden of
paying taxes on the private sector and to streamline customs procedures to reduce the costs
associated with importing and exporting.

20.     Third, Georgia will need to improve the effectiveness of its public investment
program aimed at developing the infrastructure necessary for sustained post-crisis
growth in the medium term. Georgia lags comparator countries in the EU-10 new member
states with regard to both the quantity and quality of infrastructure. Continuing to develop the
necessary infrastructure is also critical to improving external competitiveness. Public
investment currently plays a central role in developing infrastructure in Georgia--public
investment of 8.6 percent of GDP in 2008 exceeds that in most comparator countries and 40
percent of public investment is allocated to the new Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure in the 2009 budget. The DPO, therefore, supports improvements in the
efficiency and effectiveness of the public investment program in Georgia. The objective is to
develop a multi-year public investment program which will allow Georgia to prepare,
prioritize, select, and monitor implementation of public investment projects.

21.     Finally, Georgia will need to continue improving the effectiveness of its social
safety net to protect the vulnerable and ensure that the benefits of growth in the medium
term are broadly shared. This will require both continued improvement in effectiveness of
social transfers, as well as improved access to health care through a strengthening of the
health care financing system. In the area of social transfers, the reforms support a two-
pronged strategy of continuing to improve the effectiveness of the targeted social assistance


2See the World Bank's Doing Business report.

                                                8

program and to adopt a Strategy on the Social Safety Net which includes measures to
consolidate untargeted social transfers into the TSA program. In the area of health care as
well, the reforms support a two-pronged strategy to improve coverage of the medical
insurance program for the poor and the new publicly co-financed health insurance and to
strengthen public stewardship of the health insurance sector.

MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

22.     The global economic crisis is having a significant impact on Georgia's outlook for
recovery and growth, which was already weakened following the August conflict. The
baseline projection for the economy is a contraction of 1.5 percent in 2009, followed by an
easing of the downturn in 2010 and a pick up of growth in 2011-2012. Given increased
uncertainty regarding Georgia's external environment, as well as deteriorating domestic
investor sentiment exacerbated by recent political protests, the growth outlook is associated
with a preponderance of risks to the downside. At the same time, the projected contraction is
less severe than in some other CIS economies, due in part to Georgia's strong pre-crisis
fundamentals, as well as the fact that the Georgian economy is considerably less inter-linked
with that of Russia (so that the impact of developments in Russia is less severe for Georgia
than, say, for Armenia). There is uncertainty associated with growth projections, given the
unclear global economic outlook.

23.     Georgia's overall macroeconomic policy framework is adequate for this
operation. The elements of this framework include: (i) a countercyclical fiscal stimulus in
the short term and fiscal adjustment in the medium term as investor confidence and capital
inflows recover; (ii) maintaining a sustainable level of external public debt; (iii) a flexible
exchange rate consistent with external sustainability; (iv) maintaining low to moderate
inflation; and (v) addressing financial sector vulnerabilities. The macroeconomic policy
framework is supported by an IMF SBA program for which all structural benchmarks and
performance criteria have been met.

24.     The authorities have adopted a fiscal stance which includes a stimulus to mitigate
the downturn in the short term and fiscal adjustment as investor sentiment and capital
inflows recover in the medium term. The overall fiscal deficit is projected to widen to 8.2
percent of GDP in 2009 before narrowing to 2.7 percent by 2012. Public expenditures are
projected to remain high at 36.3 percent of GDP in 2009 before moderating to about 28.7
percent by 2012. The fiscal stance also includes a significant reallocation away from defense
toward social and infrastructure expenditures. Tax revenues are projected to decline from 25
percent of GDP in 2008 to 23.6 percent in 2009 and remain in the range of 23 percent in the
medium term. Revenues and grants are expected to decline from 30.7 percent of GDP in 2008
to 28 percent in 2009 and 26 percent in the medium term. As the downturn leads to increased
pressure on public finances, the authorities are prepared to undertake a fiscal adjustment in
2009. Furthermore, the authorities are committed to reducing public expenditures as a share
of GDP in the medium term as capital inflows and investor confidence recover.

25.     Georgia's debt burden indicators are below relevant thresholds and external debt
is expected to remain sustainable in the medium term, although Georgia will require
significant external financing during 2009-2012. As a result of strong debt management
and effective macroeconomic policies, Georgia had a low level of indebtedness prior to the

                                               9

economic downturn, with external public debt declining from 44.9 percent of GDP in 2003 to
17.6 percent in 2007. Following the August 2008 conflict, Georgia has been receiving
significant foreign financing for post-conflict rehabilitation and economic recovery, with
much of the assistance in the form of grants and concessional loans. Debt ratios are projected
to rise over the next two years (with external public debt projected to increase from 20.9
percent of GDP in 2008 to 30.9 percent in 2009 and 34.8 percent by 2011). With several large
repayments due in 2012-2013, the external public debt service to exports ratio is projected to
peak at 23 percent in 2013. Private debt almost doubled during the last two years, but is
projected to decline in the near term as the private sector makes large repayments in 2009.
Georgia's debt burden indicators are expected to remain significantly below relevant
performance thresholds in the medium term, even under alternative scenarios associated with
greater economic shocks. Fiscal adjustment in the medium term is an important component of
the macroeconomic policy stance in safeguarding Georgia's external debt sustainability.

26.     The macroeconomic policy stance also includes measures to allow for a flexible
exchange rate to support external sustainability. In March 2009, the authorities introduced
an auction based system for the foreign exchange market to reinforce their commitment to a
flexible exchange rate to support external sustainability. The auction based system has
become the only mechanism of foreign exchange intervention by the central bank as of May
25, 2009. As a result of the lower capital inflows (and assisted by an exchange rate policy
consistent with external competitiveness), the external current account deficit is expected to
narrow significantly from 22 percent of GDP in 2008 to 16 percent in 2009 and 13 percent in
the medium term. Exports are projected at 25.6 percent of GDP in 2009, while imports are
projected to decline sharply to 48.2 percent of GDP in 2009, resulting from import
compression as well as a shift of fiscal expenditures away from import-intensive defense
expenditures.

27.     Georgia's overall macroeconomic policy framework is supported by an IMF SBA
program. The Second Review of the SBA program was completed on March 23, 2009, and a
Third Review is currently in progress. All performance criteria and structural benchmarks
have been met and the assessment of the IMF is consistent with that of Bank staff.

28.     Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows are projected to fall in 2009 before
recovering gradually in the medium term. Although existing foreign investors have not
pulled out of Georgia and a survey of enterprises conducted in December revealed continued
interest in FDI for the medium term, projected FDI inflows are down to $935 million
(8.3 percent of GDP) in 2009. This is expected to include several large-scale, lumpy
investment projects in real estate, transportation, communications, and other sectors. FDI
inflows are projected to recover to about 12 percent of GDP by 2012.

29.     Inflation is expected to remain moderate in the medium term. Inflation reached
5.5 percent at end-2008, down significantly from 11 percent at end-2007 due to sharp declines
in capital inflows, credit from the banking sector, and global commodity prices in the second
half of 2008. Inflation is projected to remain moderate at 3-6 percent in the medium term.

30.     Georgia faces a number of significant but manageable macroeconomic risks and
vulnerabilities. First, given the uncertain global economic outlook, the decline in capital
inflows and exports could be sharper than currently projected, which would increase the depth

                                               10

and duration of the economic downturn. Second, with the global economic downturn
affecting donor countries and given the increased demand for funds in other countries, actual
disbursement of donor assistance could fall short of pledges made at the October 2008 donor
conference. Both of these scenarios would require greater external adjustment, including
greater adjustment of the exchange rate and additional external financing, and possible
additional downscaling of planned expenditures. On the flip side, because the Georgian
economy has become considerably less inter-linked with that of Russia, the impact of
developments in Russia is less severe for Georgia than for other CIS economies. Furthermore,
most pledges of donor assistance are on track to being delivered.

31.     The financial sector has been under stress and remains vulnerable as a result of
the significant shocks to the economy. The financial sector is dominated by banks.
Although the banking sector suffered a decline of deposits (by 14 percent of total deposits) in
the immediate aftermath of the August 2008 conflict, the deposit base stabilized by
September. The banking sector is highly dollarized, with 75 percent of both deposits and
loans denominated in foreign currency as of end-December 2008. Given that similar shares of
assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currency, the direct risk to balance sheets
from exchange rate depreciation is limited, although the indirect risk through balance sheets of
borrowers is significant.

32.     A range of measures have been adopted to address vulnerabilities and financing
needs of the banking sector. The share of non-performing loans increased from 3.5 percent
in July 2008 to 11.1 percent in October 2008, 12.8 percent in December 2008, and 15.2
percent in March 2009 using the Financial Supervisory Agency's broad classification of
NPLs.3 At the same time, banks have increased provisioning to deal with the increased risks
and in spite of the severe double shocks to the economy, there have been no bank failures.
The capital adequacy ratio at 15 percent remains above prudential thresholds. Banks faced
large maturing external obligations during 2009 for which they have secured adequate
financing from international financial institutions, including the IFC and EBRD. An IMF
mission in April 2009 provided technical assistance in conducting stress tests of the banking
sector and structural reforms to address financial sector vulnerabilities are part of Georgia's
SBA program with the IMF.

POVERTY DEVELOPMENTS

33.     Growth during 2004-07 was associated with improvements in several indicators
of well-being of the poor. Estimates based on a Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS) indicate that the incidence of poverty in Georgia in 2007 was 23.6 percent, while the
incidence of extreme poverty was 9.3 percent.4 The measurement of poverty trends during the
four years of strong growth in Georgia (2004-07) is complicated by questions about the
reliability of the annual national Household Surveys. Still, a look at monetary incomes shows
that the poor experienced an increase in their monetary purchasing power during this time.
Furthermore, important non-income dimensions of welfare improved for those in the bottom
30 percent of the population, including significantly improved access to electricity, natural
gas, safe water, health, and higher education. Finally, during this period, Georgia put in place


3According to IMF standard classification, the NPL ratio was 3.7 percent in March 2009.
4Georgia Poverty Assessment, April 2009.

                                                     11

an effective social safety net which, simulations indicate, had a very significant impact in
mitigating the incidence of poverty.

34.     The economic downturn is having a significant impact in increasing poverty. The
double shocks of the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis have led
to large numbers of new IDPs, higher unemployment, and significant numbers of people
whose livelihoods have been adversely impacted by the downturn. As a result, the incidence
of poverty is projected to increase from 23.7 percent in 2007 to 27.1 percent in 2009, with the
incidence of extreme poverty projected to increase from 9.3 percent in 2007 to 11.9 percent in
2009. Without the economic downturn, parallel simulations indicate that poverty could have
been expected to decline from 23.7 percent in 2007 to 19.2 percent in 2009. The 2009 gap in
the crisis poverty headcount versus no crisis poverty headcount represents about 350,000
poor people in absolute terms.


  III.    THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES

35.     The Government's medium term reform program is described in its poverty
reduction strategy document entitled United Georgia without Poverty, which was
approved on January 31, 2008, and thus predates the significant changes to the economic
environment following the August conflict and the global economic crisis. While this strategy
still provides the main directions of the Government's reform program, the pace and emphasis
of reforms have necessarily adjusted to reflect the impact of the double shocks to the economy
and the subsequent policy response.

36.     The Government prepares an annual strategy document titled Basic Data and
Directions, which outlines the medium term reform program and its objectives, provides the
medium-term macroeconomic framework, including the fiscal resource envelope and fiscal
allocations, and includes detailed descriptions of the individual sectoral strategies for
achieving these objectives. The Basic Data and Directions 2010-13 has been prepared and
submitted to Parliament as of May 2009.

37.     The Government's response to the August conflict and the global economic crisis
has included: implementing counter-cyclical fiscal and monetary measures; safeguarding the
stability of the banking sector; addressing the needs of internally displaced people and others
affected by the conflict (including providing temporary shelter, food, medical attention, cash
support, and durable housing); swiftly repairing and rehabilitating damaged infrastructure, and
seeking and obtaining international support. In October 2008, a team led by the World Bank
and the United Nations (and including the collaboration of the ADB, EBRD, EC, EIB, and
IFC) prepared a Joint Needs Assessment (JNA), which led up to an International Donor
Conference in Brussels where Georgia received financial pledges from the international
community of $4.5 billion over three years, including $850 million for the banking sector.
These pledges have enabled Georgia to significantly scale up and reallocate public
expenditures toward addressing critical social and infrastructure investment needs.

38.     The overall strategic directions of the Government's medium-term structural
reform program include:


                                              12

     Economic, Fiscal, and Monetary Policy, with the objectives of (i) returning to a
        trajectory of sustained economic growth; (ii) maintaining macroeconomic stability
        (and safeguarding the financial sector) with low to moderate inflation over the medium
        term; (iii) continuing to reduce the burden of the state on the economy and improve
        public service delivery by reducing tax rates, reducing the share of state budgetary
        expenditure as a share of GDP, and improving the efficiency of public finances.

     Population's Welfare, which is aimed at strengthening the social safety net,
        particularly expanding coverage of the extreme poor by the Targeted Social Assistance
        program and expanding access to health care financing of the poor.

     Logistics, Transport, and Infrastructure, which includes upgrading infrastructure,
        transport and trade logistics services.

     Education, which includes upgrading the skills of the labor force.

     Law enforcement, which includes upgrading institutions by implementing reforms
        aimed at further strengthening the rule of law, modernizing the enforcement system,
        and by improving mechanisms to protect property rights.

     National Security, which includes measures to advance on Georgia's NATO
        membership aspirations, territorial and civil reintegration, and deepening EU
        integration.


            IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

LINK TO CPS AND OTHER BANK TASKS
39.     Link to the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The proposed DPO series is the
central component supporting structural reforms in Georgia of the upcoming Country
Partnership Strategy covering 2010-13.5 The CPS is expected to propose a two-pillar
approach to the Bank's engagement with Georgia, including (i) mitigating the economic and
social impacts of the current economic crisis; and (ii) laying the foundations for post-crisis
recovery and growth. These overarching objectives in the proposed CPS reflect the objectives
of the Government's reform program under the current economic environment. The proposed
DPO is expected to cover the core sectors targeted for Bank Group support, while the CPS in
turn is expected to leverage the reforms supported by the DPO program through investments
in essential infrastructure and service delivery, and technical assistance in public sector reform
and in energy. The development objectives supported by the DPO are consistent with the
2006-09 Country Partnership Strategy (and with the CPS Progress Report approved in May
2008).

40.     Link to AAA.       The reforms supported by the DPO program have built upon a
foundation of extensive Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) by the Bank, including the
Public Expenditure Review (PER) in 2003; the Integrated Trade Development Study (2003);
Pension and Social Assistance Note (2005), various Doing Business Reports, the Financial


5See Georgia--Country Partnership Strategy: Upstream Review Note, March 20, 2009, the World Bank.

                                                  13

Sector Assessment Program Update (2006), the draft Country Procurement Assessment
(2007), and the Programmatic Poverty Assessment (2008), and the Bank-EC Joint PEFA
(2008).     Earlier Programmatic Poverty Assessment activities (FY05, 06, 07) have
concentrated on building capacity to track poverty and Programmatic Public Finance
activities (FY05, 06, 07) have covered recent developments and issues in public finance and
challenges in intergovernmental finances.         Ongoing work on a Country Economic
Memorandum seeks to identify challenges and solutions to sustaining growth and improving
competitiveness in Georgia, including other actions and measures that maybe needed for that
purpose. Once the findings are available and there is agreement with the Government on the
actions that maybe most effective, some of the actions could then be incorporated into the
DPO in later years.

41.     Link to Other Bank Operations. The Public Sector Financial Management Reform
Support Project which is directed at assisting the Government in addressing the capacity
constraints of key public sector agencies will also support DPO reforms. In the context of
improving public finances, the strengthening of local governance and intergovernmental fiscal
relations is being supported by the Second Municipal Development and Decentralization
Project. In the education sector, reforms support and strengthen the Government's program
under the Education System Realignment and Strengthening Project, emphasizing the need for
accountability in service delivery and providing information to enable the system to monitor
educational outcomes, especially for the poorest. Similarly, the health sector reforms
supported in the DPO program have a direct link with the ongoing Primary Health Care
Development Project. In the energy sector, reforms are being supported by the Electricity
Market Support Project and its Supplemental Credit.

COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
42.     The Government has maintained satisfactory macroeconomic performance in
line with the IMF Standby Arrangement (SBA) and the proposed DPO program. In the
aftermath of the August 2008 conflict, an IMF mission from August 23 ­ September 3
prepared a Standby Arrangement (SBA) for $750 million over 18 months to bolster investor
confidence and support international reserves, which was approved by its Board on
September 15. The First Review of the SBA was completed on December 15, the Second
Review was completed on March 23, 2009, and a Third Review is currently in progress. The
IMF notes that the Georgian economy faces a challenging external environment and a serious
downturn following the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global financial crisis. The
government's strategy to use fiscal policy aligned with official external financing to support
demand, with a flexible exchange rate to ensure external sustainability, is appropriate. The
financial sector has been sound, but remains vulnerable, with the SBA program's structural
performance criteria focused on strengthening banking supervision. Key downside risks to the
economy include a worsening of the external environment, shortfalls in official financial
assistance, and rising domestic or regional political tensions.

43.     The proposed DPO program has been designed in close coordination with other
donors and with the private sector and NGOs in Georgia. The Netherlands Government
supports Georgia in several areas, including governance, and oversight institutions. The
program of the European Commission includes support in intergovernmental fiscal relations,
auditing, and administrative reform. The Bank and the EC have recently completed the joint

                                              14

Bank-EC PEFA of Georgia. In February 2007, Georgia became the 67th member of the ADB,
which provided budgetary support in the aftermath of the crisis and is expected to provide
further budgetary support in 2009. The ADB has also been supporting the banking sector and
infrastructure projects.

44.     The programs of other development partners are as follows. The program of
USAID includes support in the areas of budgeting, Treasury management, governance, anti-
corruption, private sector development, agriculture, sanitary/food safety, energy, and
education. The program of SIDA includes support in public sector, governance reform,
agriculture, natural resources, the environment, health, and education. The program of the
UNDP includes support in the areas of administrative/civil service reform, customs reform,
and poverty monitoring. The program of DFID has included support in MTEF, and health
sector budget management and is now being phased out. The EBRD focuses on investment
promotion, municipal development and energy. GTZ support is in the areas of legal and
judiciary system, land management, and private sector development, while the KfW focuses
on energy. The MCC program includes rehabilitation of key regional infrastructure, delivery
of regional and municipal services, tourism and agribusiness.

45.     The Bank also consults with the private sector in Georgia and civil society and
these consultations have influenced design and preparation of the DPO program.
Private sector organizations consulted include the Georgian Business Confederation, the
American Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Georgian Exporters, and others. Civil
society organizations consulted include the Young Economists' Association, Transparency
International, and the Open Society Georgia Foundation.

LESSONS LEARNED
46.     The formulation of the DPO program draws on the lessons learned from
successful implementation of the PRSO program, previous development policy operations,
as well as overall IDA support to the reform process in Georgia. The policy dialogue between
IDA and the Government of Georgia has had a strong focus on public sector reform, anti-
corruption and governance issues.

47.     Specifically, design and preparation of the DPO program has taken on board the
following factors which underpinned the success of the PRSO program. First, the
Government had strong ownership of the reform program and led the reforms, with IDA
playing a catalytic and supportive role (see Box 1). Second, the operation was well defined
and focused on priority issues where the medium-term strategy is well understood and
accepted by the Government. Third, any reform program was grounded in a realistic
assessment of the Government's implementation capacity. Careful balancing of these three
factors resulted in a well-focused and sequenced program, supported by well-coordinated
donor technical assistance. Increasing the Government's implementation capacity and
leveraging World Bank Group resources through other donors are critical elements in the
design of IDA's assistance program in Georgia.




                                             15

                                Box 1. Good Practice Principles for Conditionality
  Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
  The Government has strong ownership of the proposed DPO, which supports several dimensions of the
  Government's reform agenda where the Bank has comparative advantage and complements the work being
  supported by other development partners. Furthermore, the proposed operation is in line with Georgia's medium
  term structural reform program. The proposed DPO follows successful in implementation of the PRSO program,
  which demonstrates Georgia's track record of significant Government ownership and strong commitment to the
  reform process. The Bank's analytic work has contributed to the formulation and implementation of selected
  aspects of the Government's reform program.

  Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
  accountability framework
  At the core of the accountability framework is the operations policy matrix outlining actions over the medium-
  term with clear and monitorable outcome indicators developed jointly with the Georgian government during
  preparation of the DPO program. Lessons from the PRSO program show that the policy matrix may evolve over
  time to reflect that reforms exceed program expectations so that the program is able to adjust to the emerging
  reform priorities. The reform program is closely coordinated with other development partners including the
  Netherlands Government, the European Commission, the Japanese Government, IMF, ADB, DfID, USAID,
  SIDA, KfW, GTZ, and EBRD (see Section IV). The program supports important features of Georgia's Action
  Plan under the European Neighborhood Policy (ENP). The EC plans to provide financing under its
  Macroeconomic Financial Agreement. The ADB is expected to provide budgetary support.

  Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
  circumstances
  The DPO team works closely with Government counterparts from various ministries in designing and monitoring
  reform implementation. The agreed accountability framework is fully consistent with the Government's
  expressed policy intentions and internal accountability mechanisms. Further, the program focuses on outcome-
  oriented actions, since that is the best way to calibrate the series of reforms that are necessary to achieve program
  objectives.

  Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
  The DPO program focuses on actions that are critical for the success of the reform which it supports. All
  triggers take the form of prior actions agreed upon with full participation of the Government and reflect the
  reform priorities of the Georgian Government which are supported by the Bank in the CPS.

  Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based financial
  support
  Progress made with the implementation of reforms and achievement of outcome goals is monitored on a regular
  basis: a progress matrix, which outlines the status of reforms and outcome indicators, is updated and reviewed
  periodically. The DPO program's financial support is expected to provide predictable budget support to the
  Government on a timely basis which is allowing its inclusion in the annual budget. As such, the proposed DPO
  support is fully consistent with the Government's 2009 macroeconomic framework and the 2009 budget.




        V.         THE PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                                        OPERATION

48.      The proposed DPO is directed at (i) mitigating the impact of the economic
downturn in the short-term; and (ii) facilitating recovery and preparing Georgia for
post-crisis growth in the medium-term. Toward addressing these dual challenges, the DPO
program supports a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework and key reforms in
three policy areas: (i) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public finances; (ii)
improving the effectiveness of the social safety net; and (iii) improving external
competitiveness.

                                                            16

49.     The reforms supported by the DPO program contribute to mitigating the impact
of the downturn in the short term in a number of ways. First, under the macroeconomic
and fiscal framework, public expenditures have been scaled up and reallocated toward social
and infrastructure investments to implement a countercyclical fiscal response to the economic
downturn. Second, the amount of the targeted social assistance (TSA) benefit has been
increased, the coverage of the targeted medical insurance program (MIP) has been expanded,
and a new publicly co-financed health insurance program has been introduced for those not
covered by MIP.

50.     The reforms supported by the DPO program facilitate recovery and prepare
Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium term through a number of additional
channels. First, improvements in the efficiency of public expenditures are directed at
ensuring that the higher and better allocated public expenditures are most effectively
stimulating economic recovery and creating the conditions for growth in the medium term.
This will also free up resources to finance private sector growth in an environment where
foreign capital inflows are expected to remain scarce. Second, the effectiveness of public
investment is being enhanced to create the infrastructure necessary for sustained economic
growth in the medium term. Third, tax and customs reforms are improving external
competitiveness by streamlining tax administration and customs procedures. Fourth, the
effectiveness of the social safety net is being improved to ensure that the benefits of growth in
the medium term are broadly shared.


PILLAR 1: IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF PUBLIC
FINANCES

51.     Public expenditures have increased substantially in Georgia in recent years,
supported by impressive improvements in revenue collection. The level of expenditures
increased by almost five times between 2003 and 2007, rising from 17.5 percent of GDP
($700 million) in 2003 to 34 percent of GDP ($3.4 billion) in 2007. This was supported by an
increase in tax revenues from 14.6 percent of GDP in 2003 to 25.8 percent of GDP in 2007.
Although the overall fiscal deficit widened from 1.8 percent of GDP in 2003 to 4.7 percent in
2007, this was more than fully financed by increases in privatization proceeds from 0.4
percent of GDP in 2003 to 5.2 percent of GDP in 2007. Thus, the fiscal deficit has been
financed in a non-inflationary manner and without crowding out private investment.

52.     Higher public expenditures in the social sectors and infrastructure investment in
recent years have contributed to growth and poverty reduction. Public expenditures in
health, education, and social protection increased from 4 percent of GDP in 2003 to 8 percent
of GDP in 2007.6 At the same time, capital expenditures increased from 2.8 percent of GDP
($110 million) in 2003 to 9.0 percent of GDP ($900 million) in 2007. The composition of
public expenditures has, therefore, been supportive of growth and poverty reduction.

53.     In order to mitigate the impact of the downturn in the short term through a
countercyclical fiscal response, public expenditures were scaled up in 2008 and have


6The figures for social expenditures are from the state budget only, whereas the figures for capital expenditures
are from the consolidated budget.

                                                      17

been budgeted to remain high in 2009, before moderating in the medium term. Public
expenditures increased from 34 percent of GDP in 2007 to 37 percent of GDP in 2008.
Revenue collection suffered from the economic downturn, with tax revenues falling from 25.8
percent of GDP in 2007 to 24.9 percent of GDP in 2008. As a result, increased expenditures
in 2008 were financed by higher grants and other budgetary support, as the overall fiscal
deficit increased to 6.3 percent of GDP and privatization proceeds fell to 3.7 percent of GDP.
Public expenditures have been budgeted to remain high in 2009 to continue to provide a fiscal
stimulus in the face of the economic downturn.

54.     Another important component of the countercyclical fiscal response has been the
marked shift in the composition of expenditures away from defense and toward social
and basic infrastructure investments since the second half of 2008 and in the 2009
budget. Health, education, and social protection expenditures increased from 8.2 percent of
GDP in 2007 to 9.5 percent in 2008 and have been budgeted to increase further to 10.2
percent in 2009. The share of the state budget going to such expenditures is projected to
increase from 28 percent in 2008 to 35 percent in 2009. At the same time, defense and
internal security expenditures are projected to decline sharply from 13.2 percent of GDP in
2008 to 8.3 percent in 2009, which reflects a decline from 24 percent of the state budget in
2008 to 15 percent in 2009. Thus, spending has shifted from defense and election related
outlays toward reconstruction, social expenditures (including addressing the needs of
internally displaced people), and infrastructure investments.

55.     In order to support economic recovery and create the conditions for post-crisis
growth in the medium term, improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of public
finances are a critical priority for Georgia. Given the scaling up of public expenditures and
the important shifts in composition of expenditures that have already taken place, the priority
at this point is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness with which these higher and better
allocated inputs generate the necessary outputs to support economic recovery and to create the
conditions for sustained growth in the medium term. First, the higher level of expenditures
implies the need to ensure that the expenditures are contributing effectively to Georgia's
growth and poverty reduction priorities. Second, in the current economic environment,
greater efficiency in public finances will ensure that the countercyclical fiscal response is
more effective in supporting economic recovery. Third, greater efficiency will allow the level
of public expenditures to be reduced over time and thereby expedite the process of re-
establishing private investment as the engine for accelerating economic growth in the medium
term.

56.     In order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public finances, the DPO
proposes to support reforms in the areas of (i) improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of public expenditures; and (ii) increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the public
investment program.

Improve efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures

Strategy on Public Finances
57.     The Georgian authorities have prepared a Strategy on Public Finance Reform to
provide an integrated approach for coordinating the substantial agenda for reforms in
this area. The Strategy is intended to coordinate reforms in the following areas: strategic

                                               18

budgeting, budget preparation and approval, resource management, internal control,
accounting and reporting, and external audit and accountability. The reform agenda going
forward in some of these areas (such as resource management, internal control, accounting
and reporting, and external audit) require technical assistance and capacity building and are
being supported by the Public Sector Financial Management Reforms Support Project. The
DPO, therefore, focuses on supporting policy reforms in the areas of results-oriented
budgeting, the public investment program, and tax and customs. Beyond supporting the
necessary specific policy reforms in these areas, it is important for Georgia to have a
framework for the coordination of reforms and an integrated approach to improving the public
finance system. Thus, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior action in this
area:

     Developed a strategy on public finances, which provides a framework for the
       coordination of reforms and an integrated approach to improving the public finance
       system.

58.    Under the support of DPO-2 and DPO-3, the Strategy on Public Finances would be
adopted and the associated action plan would be implemented; subsequently, the strategy
would be updated to incorporate lessons learned on the coordination of reforms and
implementation of the updated action plan would continue. The updates would include any
necessary rebalancing in the prioritization and coordination of public finance reforms.

Improved results-orientation of the budget
59.    Georgia has made significant progress in recent years in aligning public
expenditures with national development priorities, although there is room for
improvement in better formulating sector strategies and monitoring progress. Until
recently, Georgia had neither a systematic approach to budget planning nor a statement of
national objectives, with the result that there were no links between budgetary allocations and
development priorities. The public finance policy reforms initiated in 2004 have made
progress in this area. Budget planning is now done on a four year cycle through a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The starting point is the Basic Data and Directions
(BDD) document which outlines national development objectives and shows the links to the
budget. The MTEF has included all spending units since 2006, although the quality of
sectoral strategies and links to budgetary allocations varies across spending units.

60.    Budget preparation in Georgia still focuses heavily on inputs allocated and
greater attention is needed in better connecting allocations to measurable development
results in order to further improve the effectiveness of public expenditures. The MTEF
has improved the strategic planning process, with spending units laying out their strategic
goals and objectives in the BDD document. However, the strategic objectives are often stated
in broad terms and are not easily measurable. To address this problem and to increase the
accountability for results, there is a need to develop measurable indicators of program
performance as part of the budget submission, as well as to monitor progress by later reporting
on actual performance against the indicators.

61.    An enhanced results-orientation of the budget would increase the focus on
outputs generated beyond a mere focus on inputs or resources allocated. This would
create pressures within the budgetary process to reallocate resources both intersectorally

                                                19

across ministries and intrasectorally within ministries. Thus, a results-oriented budget would
create the embedded incentives to improve efficiency in the use of resources and delivery of
public services.

62.     Specifically, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior action in this area:
     Piloted results-oriented budgets, including strategic directions, costing, and
        performance indicators for at least one program, in three ministries.

63.     The DPO proposes to support development of results-oriented budgeting in
Georgia through a multi-year, stepwise process. Although the generation of meaningful
performance indicators and their effective use in the budget process will take time, the DPO
sets in motion a process by which spending units identify measurable results and then report
on them in a structured manner. Capacity in most line ministries is weak, but the MoF is
providing guidance on a methodology and initially insisting on indicators for only one
program for one year. By starting with only a few first-level spending units, the MoF is
calibrating implementation of results-oriented budgeting with its capacity to provide guidance.
At least two of the first-level spending units also benefit from EU-sponsored technical
assistance on multi-year planning and budgeting. The goal is to build capacity and ownership
over time, and to create incentives for ministries to identify poorly performing programs and
to take appropriate actions.

64.     The first step (DPO-1) involves piloting results-oriented budgets for at least one
program in three first-level spending units. The budgets outline strategic priorities, costing
of priorities, and performance indicators for the various activities supported by the program.
In fact, five pilot first-level spending units (Ministries of Agriculture, Justice, Health,
Education, and Culture) were asked to submit results-oriented budgets for the 2009 budget
cycle. Although the pilot submissions were of varying quality and were not incorporated into
the actual budget document, they provided a structure for budget planners and policymakers
within the ministries involved to connect budgetary allocations to more precisely formulated
outputs that are to be delivered.

65.     In the second step (DPO-2), the objective would be to incorporate results-oriented
budgets of improved quality and coverage for three first-level spending units as an
information annex to the Annual Budget Law. The majority of programs within each of
the three first-level spending units would be presented in a results-oriented format, and the
performance indicators would be revised to make them more relevant and/or measurable.
Although the Georgia's MTEF planning period spans four years, the performance indicators at
this stage would continue to focus on only the budget year. Greater predictability in funding
should be demonstrated before spending units are asked to detail performance levels over a
longer period.

66.     In the third step (DPO-3), coverage would be extended to five spending units and
three spending units would report on the implementation of their budget programs with
an assessment of actual versus planned performance. The reporting process would include
an explanation of factors that contributed to any major differences in actual versus planned
performance along with appropriate mitigating actions for the future. The MoF would



                                               20

continue to play a critical supporting role by providing feedback to the ministries on the
content and completeness of their performance reports.

67.    As a result of the reforms supported in this area, the medium-term outcomes
expected include: (i) increase in the share of the budget and number of first-level spending
units covered by results-oriented budgeting, and in the number of spending units that report on
performance. Over time, this is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public
expenditures in Georgia.

Increase efficiency and effectiveness of public investment program

68.    The sharp decline in private investment in Georgia following the double shocks
of 2008 has impeded the development of infrastructure necessary for post-crisis growth
in the medium term. As a result of the sharp deterioration in investor sentiment in the
second half of 2008, private investment fell significantly, with FDI falling from more than 16
percent of GDP in 2007 to about 10 percent in 2008. In addition to the sharp growth
slowdown from 12.3 percent in 2007 to 2.1 percent in 2008, infrastructure development has
also been affected, particularly since private investment had begun to play an increasingly
important role in infrastructure development in Georgia in recent years.

69.    In response, public investment has been redirected toward mitigating the
economic downturn, addressing post-conflict reconstruction and rehabilitation needs,
and creating the conditions for post-crisis growth in the medium term. Public investment
has increased significantly in recent years, rising from 2.8 percent of GDP in 2003 to 9 percent
in 2007, with public investment amounting to 20 percent of the state budget in 2007.
However, the share of public investment allocated to defense and internal affairs increased
from 26 percent in 2006 to 39 percent in 2007. This share rose even more sharply in the first
half of 2008, so that the share of public investment going to defense and internal affairs in
2008 was 55 percent. Following the August 2008 conflict, public investment was reallocated
toward addressing post-conflict reconstruction and rehabilitation needs, with the share going
to defense and internal affairs falling markedly to 27 percent in the 2009 state budget. The
overall level of public investment is projected to remain high at 7.6 percent of GDP in 2009 to
balance the downturn in private investment.

                         Figure 1. Index of Infrastructure Quantity: Georgia and Comparators

    1.8                                      1991-98           1.4                              1991-98
    1.6                                                        1.2
    1.4                                      1999-03                                            1999-03

    1.2                                                        1.0
                                             2004-06                                            2004-06
    1.0                                                       0.8
    0.8

    0.6                                                       0.6

    0.4
                                                              0.4
    0.2

    0.0                                                       0.2
        Georgia Industrial  EU15  East Asia  Latin  ECA
               economies           and the  America           0.0
                                   Pacific                          Georgia EU10  Baltics ENP5  CIS    SEE


   Source: Calderon and Serven, updated July 2008




                                                          21

70.     Georgia faces substantial infrastructure development needs for sustained growth
in the medium term and public investment now plays a central role in developing this
necessary infrastructure. In order to continue on a trajectory of sustained growth after the
economic downturn passes, Georgia faces very substantial infrastructure development needs.
As shown in figure 1, Georgia lags comparator countries in the ECA region with regard to the
quantity of available infrastructure (based on an index of transport, energy, and
telecommunications infrastructure). A similar lag is found in looking at the index of
infrastructure quality. Public investment plays a central role in developing this infrastructure.
According to the 2009 state budget, 40 percent of public investment is allocated to be spent by
the new Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure.

71.     Given the scaling up of public investment in recent years and its allocation to
areas broadly supportive of growth, the priority at this point is to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of the public investment. Public investment in Georgia (at 8.6 percent of
GDP) in 2008 exceeds that in most other comparator countries: 5.8 percent in Ireland, 3.5
percent in Romania, and 3.4 percent in Armenia. Furthermore, as discussed above, public
investment has been allocated to areas that are broadly supportive of economic growth. The
priority at this point, therefore, is for Georgia to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its
public investment so that the investments undertaken are most effective in creating the
conditions for sustained growth to continue in the medium term.

72.     The DPO proposes to support improvement in public investment efficiency
through development of a multi-year public investment program in which project
priorities and multi-year funding requirements are elaborated in a single document.7 At
present, Georgia does not possess such an integrated and systematic multi-year public
investment program which could be used as a decision-making tool by policymakers both
within and across sectors in selecting investment projects. Such a tool would also allow
decision makers to identify peaks and troughs in future investment plans and provide an early
warning system about potentially unaffordable ambitions in future years. The program would
also show foreign investors and the development community that Georgia uses a systematic
approach to direct its public investment toward projects that are supportive of growth and
poverty reduction.

73.     Specifically, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior action in this area:
     Took preparatory steps to develop a multi-year public investment program by: (a)
        revising the budget circular to include proposals on non-financial assets; (b)
        introducing a training program in capital budgeting principles in budget departments to
        prepare, assess, and manage public investment projects; and (c) piloting preparation of
        the public investment program summary for two first-level spending units based on the
        2009 budget.

74.     Developing the public investment program is expected to progressively
strengthen the system of preparing, selecting, and monitoring public investment
projects. It aims to do this by improving the guidance on project preparation issued by the
MoF to the major spending units and by enhancing the transparency and accountability for

7The multi-year public investment program would include past and future expenditure for planned and ongoing
investment projects and a summary of investment expenditure by category for each spending unit covered.

                                                    22

project implementation. The DPO builds upon other budget planning reforms underway in
Georgia (such as the MTEF) and integrates where possible the public investment program
within this framework. Although individual investment decisions are often decentralized to
line ministries, the DPO encourages the MoF to set standards and guidelines for project
analysis and reporting that will create incentives for a more efficient and effective
management of public investment resources.

75.    Although Georgia has not yet developed methodical capital budgeting systems, it
nevertheless performs better than is commonly understood in managing its public
investments. For example, the Municipal Development Fund (MDF), with well developed
systems of preparing, selecting, and implementing projects, handles a significant share of
public investment in Georgia. The Roads Department of the new Ministry of Regional
Development and Infrastructure makes use of the HDM4 software which enables it to conduct
economic analyses of proposed road projects. Still, there exists much room for further
improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of public investment in Georgia.

76.    The first DPO sets in motion a process by which Georgia prepares to develop a
multi-year public investment program along three parallel dimensions. First, as part of
the 2009 budget preparation cycle, the budget circular was revised to include proposals on
non-financial assets. This is part of the effort to ensure that information on public investment
projects is collected in an effective and systematic manner. Second, the MoF has introduced a
training program in capital budgeting principles in budget departments to prepare, assess, and
manage investment projects. Third, the MoF has piloted preparation of public investment
programs based on the 2009 budget in three ministries, plus the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF) and City of Tbilisi, thus exceeding the original target of pilots in two first-level
spending units.

77.    Under the support of the second DPO, the multi-year public investment program
would be developed along a number of dimensions. These include revising the budget
circular to include public investment proposals; developing guidelines for preparing,
submitting, and selecting public investment proposals above defined thresholds; and preparing
a public investment program information summary as an annex to the Annual Budget Law.

78.    Under the support of the third DPO, the multi-year public investment program
would be strengthened by extending coverage to a majority of public investment and by
reporting on actual versus planned project implementation. At this stage, the public
investment program summary would also be incorporated as an Annex to the BDD document
as well as the Annual Budget Law. As a result, decision makers will be able to see the types
of public investment projects that are planned by each first-level spending unit, the past
spending on the project (for ongoing projects), and the annual spending projection for each of
the years covered by the MTEF. Moreover, opportunities to understand factors that affect the
quality of project execution would increase as some spending units begin reporting on actual
versus planned implementation of projects for 2010. This reporting mechanism would
increase accountability for project implementation and strengthen the incentives for ministries
to improve efficiency and effectiveness of their public investment programs.

79.    As a result of the reforms supported under this pillar, the medium-term outcomes
expected include: (i) improved programming of public investment over a medium term

                                                23

horizon; (ii) improvement in the system of preparing, prioritizing, selecting, and monitoring
implementation of public investment projects; and (iii) gradual increase in the share of public
investment projects subject to economic and technical analysis.


PILLAR 2: IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET

80.     The overall objective of reforms under this pillar is to continue to improve the
effectiveness of its social safety net to both mitigate the impact of the economic downturn
and to ensure that the benefits of growth going forward are broadly shared. Although
strong reforms in Georgia over the last four years resulted in rapid economic growth and
improvement in standards of living along several dimensions, there is no conclusive evidence
that this growth was associated with a sustained reduction of consumption-based poverty. At
the same time, Georgia has taken important steps toward developing a social safety net by
putting in place a social assistance program targeted to the extreme poor and a medical
assistance program targeted to the poor. Georgia also has significant other social transfers,
including pensions and assistance to internally displaced persons (IDPs), which together with
targeted social assistance (TSA), accounted for 4.6 percent of GDP in the 2007 state budget.
In order to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn, higher fiscal outlays have increased
coverage and benefit amounts of the social safety net in the short term, with the budgetary
allocation for social transfers rising to 6.2 percent of GDP in the 2009 state budget. In the
medium term, improved access of the poor to the social safety net is expected to come from
improved targeting and coverage.

81.     The coverage of the Medical Insurance Program (MIP) targeted to the poor has
been scaled up in the short term and a new publicly co-financed program has been
introduced to expand coverage of health insurance in the medium term. The MIP has
improved access to health care for those covered, although a significant share of the poor are
not covered and thus lack access to health care services and protection against catastrophic
health care costs. Health expenditures accounted for 1.5 percent of GDP in the 2008 state
budget. In the medium term, the challenge for Georgia is to identify fiscally sustainable
measures to improve access to health care and protection against catastrophic health care
costs.

82.     In order to address the challenges outlined above under this pillar, the DPO
proposes to support reforms in the areas of: (i) continuing to improve effectiveness of
social transfers, including the targeted social assistance program; and (ii) improving access to
health care through fiscally sustainable strengthening of the health care financing system.

Continue to improve effectiveness of social transfers, including the targeted social
assistance program

83.     In order to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn, both the coverage of
the targeted social assistance (TSA) program and the amount of the TSA benefit have
been increased. Coverage of the TSA program has increased from 131,182 families in
December 2008 to 155,497 families in April 2009. In addition, the Government has increased
the amount of the TSA benefit: the base benefit has remained the same at GEL 30 per month
but the top-up per family member was doubled from GEL 12 to GEL 24 per month as of

                                                24

January 1, 2009. Adequate funding has been secured for the increased coverage and benefit
amount. The budget allocation for the TSA was increased from GEL 108 mln in 2008 to GEL
139 mln in 2009. These changes have been an important component of the government's
response to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn.

84.     In the medium term, improving the targeting and effectiveness of social transfers
will increase access for the poor and in particular, the extreme poor. This can be
achieved through two means. The first is to further improve effectiveness of the part of social
transfers that is already targeted (i.e. TSA), by implementing various measures to focus the
program more on the extreme poor and ensure that the increased budgetary allocation reaches
the target population effectively. The second is to begin targeting of those social transfer
programs that are still untargeted. One such large program is a monthly payment to about
220,000 IDPs. While overall consensus to widen targeting of social transfers is still being
developed, some progress is being made in this direction by transferring administration of the
IDP allowance and other cash transfers to the Social Services Agency and integrating their
budgets into the MoLHSA. Eventually, the key challenge regarding the range of untargeted
social transfers, including IDP allowance, is to move from universal coverage of the various
targeted groups toward needs-based targeting.

85.     Georgia's system of social transfers reaches 64.4 percent of the population and
includes pensions, assistance to IDPs, targeted social assistance, and a number of smaller
cash transfer programs8. Pensions are by far the largest (almost 80 percent) of social
transfers, followed by targeted social assistance (9 percent) and assistance to IDPs. Fiscal
outlays for social transfers have increased in the aftermath of the economic downturn, rising
from 4.6 percent of GDP in 2007 to 5.8 percent in 2008 and an estimated 6.2 percent
according to the 2009 state budget. Outlays for TSA are expected to rise to 13 percent of all
social transfers (0.7 percent of GDP) in 2009.

86.     Social transfers are important for poverty reduction: simulations indicate that
poverty would be much higher without the transfers. According to the findings of the
Poverty Assessment, without social transfers, poverty in 2007 would have been 35 percent
instead of 23.7 percent (higher by 50 percent), while extreme poverty would have been 20.3
percent instead of 9.3 percent (higher by more than 100 percent). Pensions, given their large
size, deliver most of the poverty reduction impact of social transfers. Targeted social
assistance (TSA) contributes to poverty reduction as well, but because of the relatively small
size of the program, the impact is smaller. Without TSA, the overall and extreme poverty
rates would have been higher by 6 and 17 percent, respectively.

87.     TSA eligibility is determined using business processes combining decentralized
collection of information with centralized data processing. All Georgian households are
entitled to apply for TSA, which leads to registration with the poor and vulnerable population
data base (managed by the Social Services Agency, SSA, and used to target several programs,
including the Medical Insurance Program). Each household is assigned a score of need
based on the proxy formula. If the household score is below the threshold, the household
receives assistance. TSA is awarded for the period of 12 months; households are fully


8 Georgia Poverty Assessment, World Bank, 2009. The PA is based on the Living Standard Measurement
Survey 2007, conducted by the Georgian Government with support from the World Bank.

                                                  25

recertified once in two years. The TSA benefit is currently GEL 30 per month for the first
member of the household, plus GEL 24 per month for each additional household member. At
the beginning of 2009, about 500,000 households (with 1,500,000 members, 40 percent of the
population) were registered with the data base and about 140,000 households (with 400,000
members, 13 percent of the population) were receiving TSA. Eligibility is determined using
the proxy means testing mechanism because the high level of informality makes income from
formal sources an inaccurate indicator of household welfare.

88.     While the TSA program is well targeted, its coverage is limited. In 2007, 70
percent of TSA beneficiaries were pre-TSA poor, indicating a reasonable error of inclusion of
30 percent. Almost two thirds of all resources allocated to TSA were received by the bottom
20 percent of the population ranked by their pre-TSA consumption. Yet, TSA covered 30.4
percent of the extreme poor and 19 percent of poor population. This low coverage was to a
large extent driven by modest resources allocated to TSA (0.4 percent of GDP). Since then,
the fraction of the population covered by TSA has reached 13 percent, with significant
increase in resources to finance the program (0.7 percent of GDP in 2009). There is no
empirical evidence yet available to assess the changes in targeting performance.

89.     TSA is expected to gradually replace some cash benefits, including those paid to
IDPs. When TSA was launched, households receiving categorical family benefits were given
an option to register with the data base, be tested and scored, and if they qualify, receive TSA.
Since the launch of the TSA, about one half of households receiving categorical benefits have
chosen to make a transition to the new system. The Government is planning to gradually
consolidate several categorical benefits, including the IDP benefits, into the TSA.

90.     In order to continue to improve effectiveness of social transfers, including the
TSA program, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior actions in this area:
     Transferred administration of IDP benefits and child welfare allowances to the Social
        Services Agency and integrated their budgets into the MoLHSA.
     Improved the effectiveness of targeted social assistance (TSA) by: (a) increasing the
        amount of the TSA benefit and securing adequate budgetary funding; and (b) preparing
        a monitoring report on the performance of the TSA program.

91.     These measures are expected to improve the effectiveness of social transfers. It is
expected that consolidated administration of social transfers will enable better cross-checks
and verification of information needed to award cash benefits, thus resulting in efficiency
gains through reduced leakage of resources. Consolidation of program budgets into the
MoLHSA will allow for better planning and management of resources allocated to social
transfers. In addition, the Government has increased the amount of the TSA benefit and
secured adequate funding. The budget allocation for the TSA was increased from GEL 108
mln in 2008 to GEL 139 mln in 2009; the base benefit has remained the same but the top-up
per family member was doubled from GEL 12 to GEL 24 as of January 1, 2009. This is an
important measure to mitigate the poverty impact of the economic downturn. The MoLHSA
has also prepared a report on the performance of the TSA program to inform TSA
improvements.



                                                26

92.     Under the support of DPO-2, the Georgian authorities expect to develop and
adopt a Strategy on the Social Safety Net to provide an integrated account of the reform
agenda in this area in the medium term. The Strategy is intended to lay out challenges and
reform steps in strengthening the social safety net in Georgia, including further improving
effectiveness of social transfers and strengthening of the health care financing system. A key
component of the Strategy is expected to be to keep the share of the population covered by the
targeted social assistance program at least at the level of extreme poverty rate and to allocate
sufficient resources to fund the program.

93.     Also under the support of DPO-2, the effectiveness of the TSA program would be
improved further by adjusting the targeting mechanism, improving administrative
processes, implementing a public information campaign, and starting recertification of
TSA beneficiaries. Like other similar programs, Georgia targeted social assistance program
faces two key challenges: (i) continuous improvements in targeting mechanism and (ii)
improvements in business processes related to the TSA administration and delivery. Regular
recertification of TSA beneficiaries (every two year, as per Georgia regulations) is very
important to enable timely entry into/ exit from the program and thus adequately reflect
developments in the welfare of Georgian population. In addition, the program is in need of a
public information campaign.

94.     Under the support of DPO-3, the authorities would update and continue
implementation of the Strategy on the Social Safety Net. In addition, the effectiveness of the
TSA program would be further improved through the deployment of an integrated
management information system for the Social Services Agency and through continued
recertification of TSA beneficiaries.

95.     As a result of the reforms supported under this pillar, the medium-term outcomes
expected include: (i) increase in percent of poor and in particular, extreme poor population
receiving targeted social assistance (increased coverage); and (ii) no increase in percent of
non-poor population among targeted social assistance recipients. TSA features an inclusion
error of 30 percent, which is reasonable by international standards. The objective of the
program along this dimension is to keep the inclusion error at least at the same level in the
medium term.

Improving access to health care through fiscally sustainable strengthening of health care
financing system

96.     Improving access to health care and reducing the impoverishing impact of out-of-
pocket health spending are important priorities for improving Georgia's overall social
safety net. With a low level of public expenditure on health, Georgia had the highest share of
total health expenditure funded through out-of-pocket payments in the ECA region in 2006,
the highest out of 53 European countries, and nearly twice as high as the average among even
its CIS comparators (see table 2).9 Household survey data reveal that both the incidence of
catastrophic health expenditure and the impoverishing impact of out-of-pocket health
spending in Georgia are at levels that are among the highest in the world.10 According to the


9WHO Health for All
10World Bank Georgia Poverty Assessment (2008)

                                               27

Life in Transition Survey (2006), Georgian households, including poor households, identify
the health sector among the top priorities for government investment.

      Table 2. Georgia and region: Health financing indicators, latest available year
                                      Georgia            CIS             EU-12              EU-15
                                                                     (E. Europe)        (W. Europe)
Out-of-pocket payment on health         72.1*            37.4             27.2               16.0
(% of total health expenditure)
Government spending on health           1.5**            2.8               4.8                7.0
(% of GDP)
Source: WHO Health for All, except: * = Georgia National Health Accounts, 2006; and **=2008 estimate



97.      The Medical Insurance Program (MIP), introduced in June 2006, is targeted to
the poor and offers a free, extensive benefit package (excluding drugs) financed through
general tax revenues. The target group is identified by the same proxy means test carried out
by the Social Services Agency (SSA) for the Targeted Social Assistance (TSA) program. The
eligibility score threshold for MIP is 70,000, higher than for the TSA. In 2008, about 750,000
individuals were eligible to receive program benefits, with a total budget of GEL 80 million
(about 0.4 percent of GDP). Eligibility has expanded to about 900,000 individuals in 2009.
The MIP is administered by the Health and Social Programs Agency (HeSPA) which, until
September 2007, directly reimbursed providers on a fee-for-service basis. Today, the
purchasing function has been transferred to private insurance companies. HeSPA issues
vouchers to the eligible population, who in turn select an insurance company to purchase the
government-defined benefit package on their behalf. Insurance companies are paid a monthly
premium (12.5 for the general population and 20.5 for those aged 65 and over) by HeSPA for
each enrolled individual.

98.      The introduction of MIP represents a significant improvement in access to and
affordability of health care by the poorest households, although evidence is very
preliminary.11 In 2009, the program will account for nearly half the total health budget. By
channeling limited public funding for health to the poor through an objective means test, the
benefit incidence of health spending should improve markedly. Along with the TSA, this
program represents better targeted spending than the majority of the large MoLHSA budget.

99.      A major challenge facing Georgia's health sector remains to expand access to
health care services and to reduce impoverishing OOP in a fiscally sustainable way. The
2009 health budget, among the smallest in the world expressed as a percent of GDP, consists
largely of MIP (about 50%) and the under-funded Universal Benefits Package (UBP)
including essential public health services (e.g., ambulances, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, child
health, salaries to maintain village ambulatories, etc.), leaving little room for reallocation
within the existing envelope as a means to expand coverage. Enhancing financial protection
will thus require a larger health budget, the expansion of private pooling mechanisms, or a
combination of both.

100. The main challenge with respect to coverage will involve reaching that segment of
the population ­ up to half ­ that does not currently have access to other prepayment


11Two World Bank-supported surveys to be completed in 2009-10 will help shed light on this issue.

                                                    28

mechanisms. In addition to 900,000 beneficiaries of MIP, the government also offers health
coverage to civil servants, including teachers, police, and military personnel. There is also a
growing clientele of largely better-off formal sector workers who are obtaining employer-
based or individual private voluntary health insurance. This leaves a currently uncovered
population of 2-3 million that includes many informal sector workers and their family
members (often living in rural areas), pensioners not eligible for MIP, and those poor who
have either not registered in the SSA database or whose eligibility was denied due to
exclusion errors in the proxy means test. Historically these groups have been eligible for
certain programs included in the UBP, but in reality this offers an inadequate safety net.

101. Georgia also faces significant challenges in terms of fulfilling its public
stewardship role with respect to the growing private health insurance industry. The MIP
entails a transfer of GEL 130m (in 2009) from the public budget to private insurers in
exchange for their services as purchasers of health care for the poor. This comes with certain
stipulations, such as the prohibition of risk selection (no eligible applicant can be turned
away) and a pledge to reimburse care covered by the government-defined benefit package.
However, there has not been a formalized mechanism for monitoring fulfillment of these
obligations. In addition, other coordination functions could usefully be undertaken by the
government in order to, for example, promote the application of common information systems
that would help avoid the pitfall of high administrative costs that frequently arise in a system
with multiple private insurers (e.g., US, Chile).

102. In order to help confront these challenges, the DPO proposes to support a
two-pronged approach comprised of expanding coverage and strengthening public
stewardship. Specifically, the following prior actions are supported under DPO-1:
     Expanded coverage of medical insurance program (MIP) targeted to the poor from
        750,000 to 900,000 beneficiaries and adopted publicly co-financed health insurance
        for population not covered by MIP.
     Strengthened public stewardship of health sector by establishing a stakeholder forum
        to oversee implementation of state-funded programs by health insurance companies
        and developing a draft standardized classification system for reporting.

103. The government has undertaken steps to improve MIP coverage. First, enrollment
has increased from about 750,000 people in 2008 to 900,000 in 2009. Primary care has also
been added to the package (previously it was covered by the UBP). The average monthly
premium has increased from GEL 11 to 15 in 2009, closer in line with private insurance
company estimates of an actuarially fair premium, potentially enhancing access to care for the
insured. These changes are being paid for by increasing the MIP budget to GEL 130m in
2009, to be partly offset by reductions in other state health programs. In future years, the
number of beneficiaries will remain relatively stable at 900,000, and the eligibility threshold
will be varied if necessary to maintain budgetary control. The program should also be
enhanced by ongoing efforts to improve targeting by the proxy means test (as described in the
above section on social assistance).

104. The government has also launched an initiative with private insurers to offer a
subsidized minimum benefit package covering primary care and urgent hospital care to
the population not eligible for MIP. The package is subject to certain co-payments and

                                               29

annual limits, and is replacing the corresponding state programs that have been eliminated in
the 2009 budget. The current plan offers a GEL 3.35 monthly premium subsidy to individuals
willing to contribute an additional GEL 1.65 (paid as a GEL 20 annual premium) from their
own pockets to purchase a GEL 5 package. Eligibility is limited to those aged 3-60, who are
not already covered by other state health programs. Enrollment started in March 2009, and
while initial uptake has been slow (about 20,000 as of late April 2009), this is expected to
accelerate going forward from improved communications and a more attractive billing option
(e.g., monthly installments). MoLHSA estimates that the number of beneficiaries may rise to
about 150,000 by mid-2010, with at least a similar number joining in 2011.

105. The newly proposed insurance package presents both opportunities and risks.
Access to health care and financial protection against OOP by a large segment of the
population should improve somewhat as a result, but will remain limited by the proposed co-
payments and ceilings. As with any voluntary health insurance scheme offering partial
coverage, it will be a significant challenge to prevent adverse selection and cost-shifting (e.g.,
non-urgent surgeries classified as urgent to obtain coverage). International experience
suggests that voluntary health insurance rarely exceeds 20 percent of total health expenditure,
and is usually concentrated among the better off.12

106. The government is also actively engaged with regard to fulfilling its public
stewardship role vis-à-vis the growing private insurance sector. In December 2008 and
February 2009 it passed decrees establishing a board chaired by the Minister of Health for
discussing implementation of MIP and other state-funded health insurance programs.
Objectives include facilitating dialogue between stakeholders, discussing cases to be resolved,
developing recommendations for program refinement, and monitoring voluntary health
insurance activities. Board members include representatives of MoLHSA, private insurers,
HeSPA, SSA, parliamentarians and providers. This is an important step towards establishing
an institutional mechanism for overseeing the implementation of MIP. In addition, by 2010
the government is also planning to allocate public funding to support the Health Insurance
Mediation Service (HIMS) created in 2008 with USAID funding (which expires later in
2009). Although still in its infancy, this dispute resolution center has been widely applauded
for enabling the insured population to obtain information and recourse in the event of
disagreement with insurance companies. It thus promotes accountability in the use of public
funds, enhances patient rights, and enhances the effectiveness of the social safety net
embodied by MIP.

107. A further government initiative aims to improve the information technology
platform related to the health insurance system. The first step, supported under DPO1, has
been to develop a draft standardized classification system based on those used internationally
for reporting diseases and medical procedures for hospitals and out-patient care. This should
help ease the major source of disputes between insurers and providers and reduce the
associated administrative burden. By 2010 this reporting will shift from paper to electronic
form. By 2011 a common IT platform will be developed to unify the government's various
beneficiary databases with the medical claims process. This will generate significant savings
for all stakeholders including government (which currently cannot easily detect whether a
household receives MIP benefits from multiple insurers), providers (who currently face up to

12Sekhri and Savedoff (2005) and World Bank (2007)

                                                  30

12 different contracts with different insurance companies), and insurers (who would not each
have to develop an IT framework from scratch). This would enhance the efficiency of
government spending on health benefits by reducing administrative overheads throughout the
system, cut back on fraudulent claims, and generate a valuable stream of data that could be
used to make evidence-based decisions on key issues such as premium adjustment.13

108. As a result of the reforms supported under this pillar, the medium-term outcomes
expected include: (i) increase in share of bottom two quintiles of population with access to
publicly subsidized health insurance; (ii) increase in share of population with access to health
insurance; and (iii) increase accountability and efficiency of the institutional framework for
state-funded health programs.


PILLAR 3: IMPROVING EXTERNAL COMPETITIVENESS

109. Improving external competitiveness of the private sector is a key priority for
Georgia going forward. The objective is to ensure that a vibrant and competitive private
sector facilitates economic recovery and serves as the engine of post-crisis growth in the
medium term. Rapid economic growth during 2004 through mid-2008 was not associated
with rapid growth of exports, with the export share of GDP remaining relatively stable at
about 31-34 percent and GDP growth driven primarily by nontradables.14 Unlike several East
Asian economies, Georgia and other transition economies have been slow in developing
export capacity (exceptions include the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia), and strong
inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI) have not been associated with an expansion of
export capacity. While this is not uncommon in a transition economy beginning a period of
sustained economic growth, in order for growth to be sustained over the medium to long run,
Georgia needs to improve its external competitiveness, diversify economic activity in the
tradable sector, and expand its export capacity. Developing external competitiveness is also
central to increasing labor productivity and wage income which in turn contributes to long-
term reduction of poverty. Improving external competitiveness requires addressing a number
of relevant policy constraints.

110. First, trade and exchange rate policy which do not impart any anti-export or
anti-tradable bias are important for ensuring external competitiveness. Georgia has
made remarkable progress in liberalizing its trade regime over the last few years, so that the
import regime is one of the most liberal in the world, with a very low average tariff and with
91 percent of HS 6-digit product lines facing a zero tariff. At the same time, the real exchange
rate appreciated over the last four years, which underscores the importance of exchange rate
flexibility under the current economic environment to minimize bias against tradables. Under
current conditions, exchange rate policy needs to carefully balance between the risks to
external sustainability, the risks to banking sector portfolios, and the impact on growth and its
sustainability. The recent adoption by the NBG of a foreign exchange auction mechanism is a
welcome step in this direction.


13Several IT-related activities in the policy matrix will also be supported by the World Bank's Health Sector
Development Project (formerly Primary Health Care Development project).
14At the same time, the growth of exports of goods and services during this period, despite trade restrictions on
exports to Russia, is notable.

                                                      31

111. Second, improved external competitiveness requires improved access to
transport, energy, and telecommunications infrastructure. Georgia faces substantial
infrastructure development needs given that it lags comparator countries in the ECA region
with regard to the quantity and quality of available infrastructure. Public investment currently
plays a central role in developing infrastructure in Georgia, with public investment at 8.6
percent of GDP in 2008 exceeding that in most comparator countries and with 40 percent of
public investment allocated to the new Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure
in the 2009 state budget. Infrastructure development efforts are being supported by the
EBRD, the World Bank, the EC, ADB, and many bilateral development partners including the
US, Japan, and Sweden. Over the next three years, international financial support to address
basic infrastructure needs may be close to $1.7 billion dollars. The reforms proposed under
Pillar 1 complements these efforts by supporting development and adoption of best
international practice on public investment programming (capital budgeting) covering another
$1 to $1.3 billion of investment projects financed from the central budget.

112. Third, upgrading skills of the labor force to compete effectively in world markets
is important to support development of tradable sectors and export capacity in
particular. Upgrading skills is being addressed by the ongoing education reform. Reforms
include measures aimed at reducing the gap between skills of the labor force and the skills
needed by a new globally integrated emerging economy: 38 percent of firms surveyed in
BEEPS 2008 report that the skills gap is a constraint to operating a business in Georgia. To
this end, reforms include modernizing curricula, monitoring and reporting of academic
attainment, and establishing vocational training. These efforts are being supported by several
development partners including USAID, the EC, SIDA, the Dutch Government, and others.

113. Fourth, strengthening basic public institutions and property rights are important
in supporting development of tradable sectors and export capacity in particular. To a
large extent, Georgia remains a cash-driven economy which limits business opportunities,
with only a few large firms developing capacity to export while most others in the tradable
sectors service a limited domestic market. Further strengthening the rule of law including
protection of property rights, increasing reliance on contracts, improving dispute resolution
mechanisms, and further progress in adopting international technical standards are needed to
expand business opportunities in the tradable sectors. A number of efforts are underway in
these areas. The Government is implementing judicial reforms aimed at strengthening the rule
of law including protection of property rights. In addition, the Government has recently
decided to create a special commission tasked with developing a program to adopt
international and EU standards and technical regulations in select industrial sectors. This
effort has been undertaken in preparation for EU-Georgia free trade negotiations.

114. Fifth, a key lever of improving external competitiveness is further improvement
of the business environment, which remains among the top priorities for the Georgian
authorities. Given limited domestic capacity to generate savings, foreign direct investment
and other private capital inflows as well as official inflows will have to continue to play an
important role in financing Georgia's investment needs. Without substantial natural
resources, a large market, or a location contiguous with a large external market, further
improvements to the business environment are critical for Georgia to compete for limited
foreign direct investment and other private capital flows. Improving the business environment


                                               32

is therefore an important area of reform to diversify economic activity and develop the
tradable sector and export capacity in particular.

115. While the business environment has improved impressively over the last five
years, the costs of tax compliance and the costs of transactions across borders remain
impediments to business activity in Georgia. The dimensions of the business environment
where relative weaknesses are found for Georgia, according to recent Doing Business reports,
are Paying Taxes and Trading across Borders. Along these two dimensions, Georgia
significantly lags its overall high ranking of 15, with the Paying Taxes rank at 110 and the
Trading across Borders rank at 81.15 Georgian companies still spend too much time paying
taxes and the cost of exporting and importing remains high. Similarly, BEEPS 2008 reports
that one in every four firms finds tax compliance a real constraint to operating a business and
one in every five firms finds customs administration time another area where improvement is
needed. Thus, reducing the costs associated with paying taxes and importing and exporting
are key levers in improving external competitiveness in Georgia. The capacity building needs
in these areas are being supported by the EC programs, USAID, SIDA and other development
partners.

                                     Table 3: Doing Business Ranking
          Category                                  Doing Business 2008         Doing Business 2009
          Starting a Business                                  10                          4
          Dealing with construction permits                    11                         10
          Employing workers                                    4                           5
          Registering Property                                 11                          2
          Enforcing contracts                                  42                         43
          Closing a Business                                  105                         92
          Paying Taxes                                        102                         110
          Trading Across Borders                               64                         81
          Getting Credit                                       48                         28
          Protecting Investors                                 33                         38
          Overall rank                                         18                         15



116. In this broad reform agenda, the Georgian authorities have requested the
support of the proposed DPO program in the areas of: (i) reducing the burden of tax
payment and tax compliance on the private sector; (ii) improving customs administration
infrastructure and further streamlining customs procedures to enhance integration with world
markets; (iii) enhancing the export enabling environment by improving access of Georgian
products to European and international markets; (iv) reform of the statistics system to provide
reliable and timely information to investors and policy makers.

Reduce the tax burden on the private sector

117. External competitiveness requires a vibrant and competitiveness private sector,
which in turn requires that the burden of tax payment and tax compliance by the

15While Georgia also significantly lags its overall ranking along the Closing a Business dimension, it has
recently adopted a new insolvency law that shortens timelines for reorganization of a distressed company or
disposition of a debtor's assets, which is expected to result in improvement along this dimension going forward.

                                                         33

private sector be minimized. Georgia has made substantial progress over the last four years
in streamlining its business environment, with its rank in the World Bank's Doing Business
indicator improving from 112th place in 2004 to 15th place in 2008. At the same time,
Georgia's rank along the Paying Taxes subcomponent of Doing Business remains at 110th
place. This leaves room for significant improvement along this dimension of the business
environment.

118. Specifically, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior actions in this area:
     Introduced an e-filing system covering all taxes and available to all taxpayers as part of
        a program to streamline the tax payment system.
     Developed selection criteria and tested software for a risk-based tax audit system.

119. The introduction of the e-filing system covering all taxes and available to all
taxpayers is an important reform directed at minimizing the costs associated with tax
payment for the private sector. The e-filing system covering declaration procedures for all
taxes and available to all taxpayers was introduced in February 2009. Although a decree was
issued in August 2007, the facility was initially piloted for large VAT taxpayers. The facility
was progressively complemented over time by adding other categories of taxes, allowing for
electronic registration, and allowing access for representatives of taxpayers. The e-filing
web-page with detailed guidelines and instructions has been designed to serve taxpayers and
can be reached by all interested parties. As of March 2009, there were approximately 780
e-filers. The number of e-filers is presently on the rise and work is underway to further
streamline the system by removing possible access and utilization bottlenecks. Under the
support of DPO-2, an update of the IT platform and a public information campaign are
expected to induce wider adoption of the e-filing system. By the end of 2009, approximately
2000 e-filers (including large firms, small and medium firms, and individuals) are expected,
with the number expected to rise further to 5000 e-filers by the end of 2010.

120. Preparation to introduce a risk-based tax audit system is another important
reform directed at minimizing the costs of tax compliance. In order to streamline tax audit
procedures, the Government has defined selection criteria and tested the software for a risk-
based tax audit system. The objective of the system is to select for audit those taxpayers that
are associated with a greater risk of noncompliance. Under the system, selection will not be
subjective and will instead be based on a combination of defined objective criteria. This will
ultimately spare taxpayers with a good record of compliance from the burden associated with
an audit and thereby improve the overall fairness and efficiency of the tax audit system.
Under the support of DPO-2, the risk-based system will be introduced and is expected to
select at least two-thirds of the planned number of tax audits.

121. Under the support of DPO-3, the tax payment system would be streamlined further
by issuing comprehensive procedural guidelines for use by tax officers in providing the entire
menu of necessary services to taxpayers. The objective would be to further improve
interaction between taxpayers and tax authorities, so that a uniform set of guidelines are in
place for all cases. Furthermore, the risk-based tax audit system would be enhanced,
including by revising the system as necessary to improve its performance.



                                               34

122. In addition to the planned reforms to reduce the burden of tax compliance, a
number of tax reforms during 2004-08 have resulted in improved revenue collection and
reduced tax burden. A new tax code was enacted in 2005 and the authorities have been
improving the tax regime in terms of tax policy and administration. The tax burden has been
substantially reduced on firms and individuals through a reduced number of taxes, lower and
flat tax rates, and a broader tax base. Restructuring of the tax and customs institutional
framework and measures to eliminate widespread corruption in those systems led to
substantial improvements in tax administration and increased tax collection from 14.6 percent
of GDP in 2003 to 25.8 percent in 2007. The Revenue Service established under the Ministry
of Finance has made voluntary compliance the cornerstone of its modernization strategy.
Taxpayer service centers have been designed and established to make interaction with
taxpayers more efficient and professional and to provide taxpayers with instructions and
guidance.

123. A comprehensive tax amendment was approved in December 2008 (and became
effective as of January 1, 2009) to reduce the tax burden and streamline tax
administration procedures. The specific measures envisaged over the next four years by the
amendment include, inter alia: (i) reduction of the personal income tax rate from 25% to 20%
in 2009 and further reduction to 18% in 2011 and to 15% in 2012; (ii) reduction of the tax rate
on dividends to 5% in 2009, and further to 3% in 2011 and to 0% in 2012; (iii) granting
enterprises the right to submit invoice for VAT refund within 90 days instead of 45 days after
transaction; and (iv) payment of VAT refund within 3 months instead of 6 months.

124. As a result of the reforms supported in this area, the medium term outcomes
expected include: (i) reduced tax burden; (ii) reduced time required for tax compliance; and
(iii) stable budget revenue performance.

Improve customs management infrastructure and further streamline customs
procedures to enhance integration with world markets

125. While Georgia has substantially liberalized its trade regime, progress remains
ahead in the trade facilitation area to streamline customs procedures. Over last few
years, Georgia has been actively implementing trade reforms, including liberalizing trade
restrictions and reforming custom services. These efforts materialized in a new customs code
consistent with international standards adopted in mid-2006. Under this code, Georgia
implemented a major trade liberalization reform, with the number of import tariff rates
reduced from sixteen to three: 0, 5, and 12 percent. In parallel, customs administrative
arrangements were reformed and changes in management and staffing were implemented to
eradicate corruption, eliminate overlapping functions, and streamline procedures. However,
progress remains ahead in further streamlining customs procedures.

126. Improving customs management infrastructure and streamlining customs
procedures is central to improving external competitiveness. According to the Doing
Business report, Georgia's rank of ease of doing business has improved from 118th place in
2005 to 15th in 2009 due to its high rankings in the areas of Starting a Business (4th) and
Registering Property (2nd). At the same time, Georgia lags significantly in the area of
Trading across Borders (81st place in 2009), which suggests that this is an important
impediment to improving external competitiveness.

                                              35

127. Specifically, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior action in this area:
     Introduced the risk management system at customs, including yellow and red corridors
        for all declarations and green and blue corridors for firms on the Gold List.16

128. Implementation of the Risk Management System at customs is expected to play a
significant role in streamlining customs procedures. The overall objective of the newly
introduced system is to provide different degrees of customs inspections for those with
different records of compliance. At this point, declaring entities are subject to the risk-based
examination through the red and yellow corridors, while two additional blue and green
corridors are available for entities with status of Gold List. The new procedures are compliant
with WTO requirements and have been written in a user-friendly manner with much
explanation and illustrative examples. In brief, the red corridor requires documentation and
physical examination, the yellow corridor requires documentation only, and the blue corridor
provides for advanced declarations to conduct examination of documents after customs
clearance procedures. Furthermore, relations between importers and customs brokers have
been streamlined through the requirement for brokers to present bank guarantees. The red
corridor represents the most elaborate inspection requirements and ultimately, the system is
expected to reduce the number of shipments through the red corridor and ensure that only
strong violators are subject to the red corridor requirements.

129. Benefits have been expanded and eligibility criteria have been relaxed for the
Gold List program, which offers streamlined customs clearance procedures to low-risk,
high-volume/high-value traders. Simplified procedures introduced include post payment
(up to 30 days) of customs duties and other taxes previously due at the border, immediate
release of goods to circumvent formalities at inland clearance terminals, and electronic
submission of customs declarations. The new regulation also eliminates the requirement that
members have no prior customs violations, which was almost impossible under the poor
customs administration that prevailed in the recent past.

130. Subsequent operations of the DPO series will support measures to improve the
Risk Management System, including through access to all corridors for all declarations and
through revising the system as needed to improve performance, in order to increasingly limit
the number of declarations passing through the red corridor to strong violators.

131. As a result of the reforms supported in this area, the medium term outcomes
expected include a reduction in time and cost required to import and export. In 2008, the
times required to export and import were 12 days and 14 days. These costs are expected to
decline by about 10 percent per year as a result of the reforms supported by the DPO.

Enhance export enabling environment by improving access to European and
international markets

132. Access of Georgian products and services to European and international markets
depends on an array of factors. These include tariffs, quantitative restrictions, and other


16Green, blue, yellow, and red corridors provide different degrees of streamlined customs procedures for
importing entities. The Gold List includes importing entities with a sound established track record of customs
compliance.

                                                     36

non-tariff barriers in destination markets. As a result of Georgia's free trade areas with
several countries and GSP status in several markets, tariffs and quantitative restrictions do not
significantly limit access of Georgian products to those markets. Georgia has free trade
agreements with the CIS countries and has recently signed an FTA with Turkey. Georgian
products benefit from GSP status in the markets of the EU, the USA, Canada, Switzerland,
Japan, and Turkey. Under the EU's GSP, Georgia has qualified for the special arrangement
for sustainable development and good governance (GSP+) which offers it enhanced access to
the EU market. At the same time, access of Georgian products to European and international
markets can be impeded by a range of non-tariff barriers including quality and regulatory
requirements in destination markets.

133. Reforms in trade-related areas in Georgia can play an important role in
overcoming non-tariff barriers in destination markets and thereby improving access of
Georgian products to those markets. Although the first DPO does not propose to support
any specific reforms in this area, subsequent operations will support reforms in trade-related
areas to facilitate access of Georgian products to European and international markets. Under
the support of DPO-2 and DPO-3, Georgia is expected to identify and start implementing the
necessary reforms in trade-related areas, including technical barriers to trade, intellectual
property rights, customs, sanitary, and phyto-sanitary measures. Georgia is currently
preparing to launch FTA negotiations with the EU and a number of reform initiatives in the
aforementioned trade-related areas are being drafted under this framework.

Reform of the Statistics System

134. Reliable and timely statistics on economic and social conditions are important for
investors and for policy makers. Foreign investors depend on statistics on trade,
investment, and economic conditions to track opportunity and make investment decisions. As
such, the availability of timely and reliable statistics serves to reduce uncertainty and bolster
investor confidence. Not only should statistical indicators be of good quality, but the public
and investors must also have confidence in the integrity and accuracy of the statistics. The
task of producing credible statistics should rest with a public institution that is professionally
and technically competent, free of political influence, and responsive to public needs.
Fulfilling all these requirements will require reforms of Georgia's statistics agency.

135. The Department of Statistics of Georgia faces significant challenges, including the
need to improve technical capacity and structural efficiency, ensure that official statistics are
of high quality, and enhance public confidence in the integrity of statistics. In order to meet
these challenges, a Commission was appointed by the Prime Minister in December 2008 to
recommend measures for the reform of the statistics system of Georgia. The objective of the
reforms is to ensure that the new statistical system will produce credible, high-quality, and
reliable statistics that are prepared in a manner consistent with international best practices.

136. Specifically, the first DPO proposes to support the following prior action in this area:

     Adopted a concept of reform of the statistics system including principles of
        independence, professionalism, technical capacity of staff, integrity and accuracy of
        statistics; and submitted to Parliament the new draft law on state statistics including


                                                37

        provisions for an independent statistics office governed by a supervisory board, the
        adoption of internationally recognized statistical methods, and improved skills of staff.

137. The Concept on Reform of the Statistics System was prepared by the Commission
and adopted by Cabinet. The Concept recommends reforms in a number of areas, including:
measures to strengthen the independence of the agency including from political influence;
measures to ensure that the methodologies used in the preparation of official statistics are
consistent with accepted international standards; and measures for institutional development,
including human resources, infrastructure, and international cooperation. Subsequently, a
Law of Georgia on State Statistics submitted to Parliament on March 12. It completed its first
reading of Parliament on March 27 and is currently being revised in line with the feedback
received.

138. Subsequent operations (DPO-2 and DPO-3) will support implementation of the
ongoing reform of the statistics system. Steps supported under DPO-2 include adoption of
the Law on State Statistics, establishment of supervisory board and expert committee
envisaged by the law, establishing the statistics office as an independent entity, and providing
training to improve technical capacity of the staff. Steps supported under DPO-3 include
improved implementation of internationally recognized statistical methods, further fine-tuning
of institutional structures, and continued improvement of technical capacity of staff.

139. As a result of reforms supported in this area, the medium-term outcomes
expected include: (i) increased reliability and independence of statistics; (ii) streamlined
institutional structures; and (iii) improved human capacity and public outreach.


                          VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
140. The Ministry of Finance will act as the main coordinator for managing the
overall implementation of the DPO program. The Ministry also actively participates in
implementing the overall strategic goals of the Government's United Georgia without
Poverty reform program. The primary implementing line agencies for the DPO program are:
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development, and the Ministry of Labor,
Health, and Social Affairs.

141. The monitoring of the reform program will be carried out through regular
reviews and in the context of the supervision of this operation. Progress in the
implementation of policy measures will be further monitored through other Bank financed
projects, including those that complement actions supported under the DPO program. The
monitoring of public sector reforms as well as public expenditures in social sectors is of
particular importance to the Government.

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
142. The DPO program is designed to mitigate the impact of the current economic
downturn on the poor and to improve living standards in Georgia over the medium
term. First, the overall macroeconomic and fiscal framework includes significant reallocation


                                               38

of expenditures, which is creating fiscal space for increased social protection and health
expenditures. Second, reforms to scale up the social safety net while maintaining targeting
efficiency are expected to have the greatest immediate effect in supporting incomes of the
poor during the economic downturn. Third, in the medium term, reforms to facilitate
economic recovery and post-crisis growth are expected to be the driving force behind
improved living standards.

143. Fiscal reallocation is creating space for increased expenditures on social
protection. According to simulations based on the 2007 LSMS survey, public expenditures
on social protection have a significant impact in mitigating the incidence of poverty in
Georgia. For example, without pension payments, poverty in 2007 would have been 33
percent instead of 23.7 percent; without targeted social assistance (TSA), poverty would have
been 25 percent. As a result of significant fiscal reallocation, public expenditures on social
protection in the state budget increased from 4.6 percent of GDP in 2007 to 5.8 percent in
2008 and are projected to increase to 6.3 percent according to the 2009 state budget. These
increased expenditures on social protection are having a significant impact in mitigating the
impact of the economic downturn on the poor.

144. Reforms in the area of the social safety net are scaling up benefits and coverage
of the targeted social assistance program and the medical insurance program targeted to
the poor. The amount of the TSA benefit and budgetary funding for the TSA program are
being increased and coverage under the Medical Insurance Program (MIP) for the poor is
being expanded under reforms supported by the DPO. These reforms are expected to have a
significant impact in mitigating the impact of the economic downturn on the poor.
Furthermore, reforms to improve the effectiveness of social transfers and to strengthen the
health care financing system are expected to ensure that the benefits of recovery and growth in
the medium term are broadly shared.

145. Reforms to facilitate economic recovery and post-crisis growth are expected to be
the driving force behind improved living standards in the medium term. Strong growth
during 2004-07 was associated with significant improvements in non-income dimensions of
well-being for the bottom 30 percent of the population, including significantly improved
access to electricity, natural gas, safe water, health, and higher education. At the same time,
the productivity-enhancing restructuring process accompanying growth during 2004-07 was
associated with labor shedding, which affected employment and prevented overall poverty
from responding immediately to the acceleration of growth. As recovery and post-crisis
growth take hold in the restructured Georgian economy in the medium term, employment and
labor productivity are expected to expand and poverty is expected to decline over time.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
146. This operation does not require an environmental assessment, as the DPO
supported reforms are not expected to have either a direct or an indirect significant
negative impact on the environment. In addition, the Government has provided information
regarding the regulatory framework in Georgia with respect to each of the safeguard areas of
concern to the Bank.

147. The reforms to the business environment supported by the DPO program focus
on further streamlining tax administration to reduce the burden on the economy and

                                                39

improving customs administration infrastructure and hence do not weaken the
institutions and regulations with respect to environmental protection. In general, experts
observe that while the regulatory framework on the environment in Georgia is broadly aligned
with international standards for the level of economic development of Georgia, the
implementation of this framework can be strengthened. Strategic priorities in environmental
protection for a three year period are explicitly stated in the Basic Data and Directions (BDD)
document of the Government of Georgia comprising strategic objectives and budgeted
activities for all sectors.

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
148. Public financial management system. The findings and conclusions of various
assessments of the Georgian public financial management system have been incorporated
within and indeed are integral to the design of the DPO. These assessments include: the
World Bank's September 2007 draft Country Procurement Assessment (CPA)17; September
2003 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)18; the IMF's October 2003
Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes - Fiscal Transparency Module19; the World
Bank's June 2002 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)20; the World Bank's
November 2003 Public Expenditure Review (PER)21, and the 2007 Joint World Bank-
European Commission PEFA22. The salient public financial management issues of these
assessments, as well as issues arising since the publication of these assessments, have been
summarized, and progress has been discussed and addressed as appropriate elsewhere in this
Program Document.

149. Review of foreign exchange environment. The IMF conducted the latest safeguards
assessment of the NBG in November 2008. According to the latest safeguards report
(December 10, 2008), the status of earlier safeguards recommendations are the following:
three of the previous recommendations were fully implemented, and one recommendation was
superseded by three new recommendations. Particularly, it was recommended that the
composition of the Audit Committee be modified to include only non-executive members,
supported, as needed, by an expert advisor. In addition, the committee should provide
oversight of NBG's auditing and financial reporting mechanisms. It was also recommended
that the NBG Council adopt an action plan for strengthening its vault operations, including
through addressing external audit findings, improving access controls, and automating vault
records. The third recommendation was on coordination of the monitoring and mitigation of
existing and emerging risks, possibly via a new committee.

150. The NBG received an unqualified audit opinions on its latest published financial
statements from its auditors, Deloitte & Touche, in respect of the year ended December 31,
2006 and from KPMG for the year ended December 31, 2007. The fiduciary risks are
considered acceptable taking into account the arrangements in place.

17Georgia: Country Procurement Assessment (based on OECD-DAC/World bank Indicators), forthcoming 2008.
18Georgia: Country Financial Accountability Assessment, September 2003. World Bank Report No. 28941-GE.
19Georgia: Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency Module, October 2003,
IMF Country Report No. 03/333.
20Georgia: Country Procurement Assessment Report, June 2002. World Bank Report No. 26660.
21Georgia: Public Expenditure Review, November 2003. World Bank Report No. 15779-GE.
22Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Performance measurement Framework was used to assess the
PFM systems in Georgia.

                                                      40

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
151. The proposed Operation is an IDA Credit of SDR 57.2 million (US$85 million
equivalent). Proceeds of the IDA Credit will be released in a single tranche upon
effectiveness. The Operation will be subject to ratification by Parliament before it becomes
effective. The IDA Credit will be on IDA terms, with a 20 year maturity, including a 10 year
grace period. The expected closing date of the proposed first DPO is March 31, 2010.

152. The proposed first DPO will be disbursed in US dollars into the Treasury Service
Foreign Currency Account maintained at the National Bank of Georgia (NBG). The
Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of the proceeds of the Credit into the said account, an
equivalent amount will be credited in the Borrower's budget management system, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, that is: the MOF's budget account will be credited with the GEL
equivalent at the official exchange rate within 30 days of disbursement. The foreign exchange
proceeds of the proposed first DPO will be sold by the NBG or held in reserves, in accordance
with the objectives of monetary policy.

153. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the Operation's administration
and for preparing the withdrawal application, maintaining the Foreign Currency
Account for the first DPO at the NBG as required. The Ministry, with the assistance of the
NBG, will maintain records of all transactions under the Operation in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The NBG will provide to IDA a confirmation that the amount of the
Operation has been credited to an account acceptable to the Association (the format of the
confirmation letter should be acceptable to IDA). IDA reserves the right to request an audit of
the Foreign Currency Account for the first DPO.

154. Auditing.      Audits of the First and Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation
(PRSO) were unqualified and revealed no issues of concern. Given the progress in fiduciary
reforms, the improvements recorded in the IMF safeguard assessments, the unqualified audit
opinions provided in the NBG's recent audited financial statements (FY 2006 and FY 2007)
and on PRSO I and II, and no audit requirement under PRSO III and IV, no additional
fiduciary arrangements including audit are required for the first DPO.

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
155. Georgia faces a number of significant but manageable macroeconomic risks and
vulnerabilities. First, given the uncertain global economic outlook, the decline in private
capital inflows and exports could be sharper than currently projected. Second, with the global
economic downturn affecting donor countries and given the increased demand for funds in
other countries, actual disbursement of donor assistance could fall short of pledges made at
the October 2008 donor conference. Third, financial sector vulnerabilities could deteriorate if
the economic downturn deepens and a larger than expected exchange rate depreciation occurs,
leading to further increases in non-performing loans (NPLs). Should these risks be realized,
they would increase the depth and duration of the economic downturn and require greater
external adjustment including greater adjustment of the exchange rate; possible further
downsizing of public expenditure plans; and additional external financing.

156. The risks are mitigated by a number of factors. At this time, most pledges of donor
assistance, including those of the Bank and the IFC, are on track to being delivered. An IMF

                                               41

mission in April 2009 provided technical assistance in conducting stress tests of the banking
sector and structural reforms to address financial sector vulnerabilities are part of Georgia's
SBA program with the IMF. The IMF program also provides strong backing for the country's
reserve position and could conceivably be increased if further Fund assistance were needed
(presently, the SBA provides exceptional financing at 300 percent of quota). The Bank and
the IMF have intensified their macroeconomic monitoring and are holding a continuous policy
dialogue with the authorities on macroeconomic developments and policy responses.

157. On the political front, Georgia faces challenges internationally and domestically.
A rise in domestic or regional political tensions could further undermine investor confidence
and affect implementation of reforms. Internationally, relations with Russia remain strained.
Mediation efforts are ongoing, with support from the international community and bilateral
partners. The EU has stationed about 300 monitors in Georgia (EUMM) along potential
conflict lines and, with the OSCE, the UN and the US, is engaged in a longer term mediation
effort in Geneva, in which all involved parties are participating. Domestically, while the
opposition has been increasingly vocal in disagreeing with the current administration and
demanding that the President step down, the protests have been largely peaceful. At the same
time, the Government's quick and comprehensive response to the needs of IDPs and others
affected by the August conflict and the global economic crisis has helped to mitigate potential
tensions which might otherwise have risen on those counts.




                                              42






                                                  ANNEX 2: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX
                                            Georgia: Programmatic Development Policy Operation

         Objectives                        DPO 1                          DPO 2                         DPO 3              Medium term outcomes
                                       (Prior Actions)                  (Triggers)                    (Triggers)                  (by end 2011)

Macroeconomic Stability        Maintain a satisfactory       Maintain a satisfactory       Maintain a satisfactory       Economic recovery and
                               macroeconomic framework       macroeconomic framework       macroeconomic framework       subsequent positive GDP
                                                                                                                         growth, depending on global
                                                                                                                         economic environment; Low
                                                                                                                         to moderate inflation; Fiscal
                                                                                                                         stance consistent with
                                                                                                                         macroeconomic framework;
                                                                                                                         Sustainable debt/GDP ratio

Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Public Finances


Improve efficiency and         Developed a strategy on       Adopt the strategy on public  Update the strategy on public
effectiveness of public        public finances, which        finances and initiate         finances to integrate lessons
expenditures                   provides a framework for the  implementation of the         learned and continue
                               coordination of reforms and   associated action plan.       implementation of the
                               an integrated approach to                                   updated action plan.
                               improving the public finance
                               system.

                               Piloted results-oriented      Incorporate results-oriented  Extend improved results-      Increase in number of
                               budgets, including strategic  budgets for three government oriented budgets prepared as   government first-level
                               directions, costing, and      first-level spending units as an information annex to the   spending units and programs
                               performance indicators for at an information annex to the   Annual Budget Law to five     that are covered by results-
                               least one program, in three   Annual Budget Law and         government first level        oriented budgets and report
                               ministries.                   improve quality by expanding spending units and strengthen on annual performance.
                                                             coverage across programs and implementation in three
                                                             developing measurable         first-level spending units by
                                                             indicators of program         reporting on actual
                                                             performance.                  performance against the
                                                                                           indicators and causes behind




                                                                            48

          Objectives                        DPO 1                           DPO 2                          DPO 3                  Medium term outcomes
                                        (Prior Actions)                   (Triggers)                      (Triggers)                    (by end 2011)
                                                                                                major differences.

Increase efficiency and         Took preparatory steps to       Develop a multi-year public     Strengthen the multi-year       Improve programming of
effectiveness of public         develop a multi-year public     investment program by:          public investment program       public investment over a
investment program              investment program by: (a)      (a) revising budget circular to covering a majority of public   medium term horizon
                                revising the budget circular to include public investment       investment by: (a) publishing
                                include proposals on non-       proposals; (b) developing       public investment program       Improved system of
                                financial assets; (b)           guidelines for preparing,       information summary as an       preparing, prioritizing,
                                introducing a training          submitting, and selecting       Annex to the Basic Data and     selecting, and monitoring
                                program in capital budgeting    public investment proposals     Directions document; (b)        implementation of public
                                principles in budget            above defined thresholds; and reporting publicly on actual      investment projects.
                                departments to prepare,         (c) preparing public            versus planned project
                                assess, and manage public       investment program              implementation for 2010; and Gradual increase in share of
                                investment projects; and (c)    information summary, as an      (c) preparing public            public investment projects
                                piloting preparation of the     Annex to Annual Budget Law investment program                   subject to economic and
                                public investment program       for 2010.                       information summary, as an      technical analysis.
                                summary for two first-level                                     Annex to Annual Budget Law
                                spending units based on the                                     for 2011.
                                2009 budget.

Improving the Effectiveness of the Social Safety Net


Continue to improve             Transferred administration of Develop and adopt a strategy      Update and continue
effectiveness of social         IDP benefits and child          on social safety nets, which    implementation of the
transfers, including the        welfare allowances to the       provides an integrated          strategy on social safety nets.
targeted social assistance      Social Services Agency and      approach to strengthening the
program                         integrated their budgets into   social safety net system.
                                the MoLHSA.

                                Improved the effectiveness of Improve the effectiveness of      Improve the effectiveness of    Increase in percent of poor
                                targeted social assistance      targeted social assistance      targeted social assistance      and in particular, extreme
                                (TSA) by: (a) increasing the    (TSA) by: (a) adjusting         (TSA) by: (a) deploying an      poor population receiving
                                amount of the TSA benefit       proxy-means testing formula     integrated management           targeted social assistance
                                and securing adequate           as per findings of monitoring   information system for the
                                budgetary funding; and (b)      survey; (b) improving           Social Services Agency; and     No increase in percent of



                                                                              49

         Objectives                       DPO 1                         DPO 2                          DPO 3                Medium term outcomes
                                      (Prior Actions)                  (Triggers)                     (Triggers)                  (by end 2011)
                              preparing a monitoring report business processes related to  (b) continuing recertification non-poor population among
                              on the performance of the     TSA administration; (c)        of TSA beneficiaries.          targeted social assistance
                              TSA program.                  implementing public                                           recipients
                                                            information campaign; and
                                                            (d) restarting recertification
                                                            of TSA beneficiaries.

Improve access to health care Expanded coverage of          Expand coverage of publicly    Expand further the coverage    Increase in share of bottom
through fiscally sustainable  medical insurance program     co-financed health insurance   of publicly co-financed health two quintiles of population
strengthening of health care  (MIP) targeted to the poor    toward 150,000 beneficiaries   insurance toward 300,000       with access to publicly
financing system              from 750,000 to 900,000       for population not covered by beneficiaries for population    subsidized health insurance
                              beneficiaries and adopted     medical insurance program      not covered by medical
                              publicly co-financed health   (MIP) and maintain coverage insurance program (MIP) and Increase in share of
                              insurance for population not  of MIP targeted to the poor at maintain coverage of MIP       population with access to
                              covered by MIP.               about 900,000 beneficiaries.   targeted to the poor at about  health insurance
                                                                                           900,000 beneficiaries.

                              Strengthened public           Strengthen public stewardship Strengthen public stewardship Increase accountability and
                              stewardship of health sector  of health sector by initiating of health sector by deploying  efficiency of the institutional
                              by establishing a stakeholder public funding for health      a common IT platform for       framework for state-funded
                              forum to oversee              insurance mediation service    medical claim processing to    health programs
                              implementation of state-      to enhance patient rights and  help lower administrative
                              funded programs by health     introducing an electronic      costs.
                              insurance companies and       system for reporting for
                              developing a draft            medical claims.
                              standardized classification
                              system for reporting.

Improving External Competitiveness


Reduce the tax burden on the  Introduced an e-filing system Update the IT platform and     Issue comprehensive            Reduced tax burden
private sector                covering all taxes and        undertake a public             procedural guidelines for use
                              available to all taxpayers as information campaign to        by tax officers in providing   Reduced time required for tax
                              part of a program to          induce wider adoption of the   the entire menu of necessary   compliance
                              streamline the tax payment    e-filing system, as part of a  services to taxpayers, as part



                                                                           50

            Objectives                           DPO 1                             DPO 2                          DPO 3                  Medium term outcomes
                                            (Prior Actions)                      (Triggers)                     (Triggers)                     (by end 2011)
                                    system.                           program to streamline the tax of a program to streamline the Stable budget revenue
                                                                      payment system.                tax payment system.              performance

                                    Developed selection criteria      Introduce a risk-based tax     Enhance the risk-based tax
                                    and tested software for a risk- audit system so that at least    audit system, including
                                    based tax audit system.           two-thirds of the planned      revising the system as needed
                                                                      number of tax audits is        to improve its performance.
                                                                      selected by the system.

   Improve customs                  Introduced the risk               Improve the risk management Further improve the risk            Reduce time and cost
   infrastructure and further       management system at              system at customs by           management system at             required to import and export
   streamline customs               customs, including yellow         allowing access to all         customs by revising the
   procedures to enhance            and red corridors for all         corridors for all declarations system as needed to improve
   integration with world           declarations and green and        to increasingly limit the      its performance to
   markets                          blue corridors for firms on the number of declarations           increasingly limit the number
                                    Gold List.23                      passing through the red        of declarations passing
                                                                      corridor to strong violators.  through the red corridor to
                                                                                                     strong violators.

   Enhance export enabling                                            Identify and start to          Continue reforms in trade-       Create pre-conditions for
   environment by improving                                           implement reforms in           related areas, including         improved access of Georgian
   access to European and                                             trade-related areas to         technical standards for traded products to European and
   international markets                                              facilitate access for Georgian goods and services,              international markets.
                                                                      products to European and       intellectual property rights,
                                                                      international markets.         customs, and sanitary and
                                                                                                     phyto-sanitary measures to
                                                                                                     facilitate access to European
                                                                                                     and international markets.


   Reform of Statistics System      Adopted a concept of reform       Implement ongoing reform of Implement ongoing reform of Increased reliability and
                                    of the statistics system          the statistics system by:      the statistics system by         independence of statistics.
                                    including principles of           (a) adopting the law on state  improving implementation of

23Green, blue, yellow, and red corridors provide different degrees of streamlined customs procedures for importing entities. The Gold List includes importing entities
with a sound established track record of customs compliance.



                                                                                     51

Objectives                DPO 1                            DPO 2                            DPO 3              Medium term outcomes
                      (Prior Actions)                     (Triggers)                       (Triggers)               (by end 2011)
             independence,                    statistics; (b) establishing the internationally recognized   Streamlined institutional
             professionalism, technical       supervisory board and expert     statistical methods, further structures.
             capacity of staff, integrity and committee envisaged by the       fine-tuning of institutional
             accuracy of statistics; and      law; (c) establishing the        structures, and continuing   Improved human capacity and
             submitted to Parliament the      statistics office as an          improvement of technical     public outreach.
             new draft law on state           independent entity; and          capacity of staff.
             statistics including provisions (d) providing training to
             for an independent statistics    improve technical capacity of
             office governed by a             staff.
             supervisory board, the
             adoption of internationally
             recognized statistical
             methods, and improved skills
             of staff.




                                                              52

                                     ANNEX 3: MATRIX OF OUTCOMES / MONITORABLE INDICATORS


Indicators                          Baseline Value              Progress at DPO 1              Progress at DPO 2         DPO 3/End Program Target Value
                               Number or text       Date    Number or text        Date     Number or text         Date     Number or text         Date
Prerequisite: Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
GDP growth                            2.1%          2008 Economic recovery,       2009 Acceleration of growth, 2010     Acceleration of growth,   2011
                                                          depending on global            depending on global             depending on global
                                                         economic environment           economic environment            economic environment
Inflation rate (eop)                  5.5%          2008    Low to moderate       2009    Low to moderate         2010     Low to moderate        2011
                                                           inflation with core            inflation with core             inflation with core
                                                          inflation remaining at        inflation remaining at           inflation remaining at
                                                            single digit levels           single digit levels              single digit levels
Overall fiscal deficit (cash         -6.3%          2008 Fiscal deficit anchors 2009 Fiscal deficit anchors       2010   Fiscal deficit anchors   2011
basis) to GDP                                                macroeconomic                 macroeconomic               macroeconomic stability,
                                                         stability, is financed in     stability, is financed in a       is financed in a non-
                                                         a non-inflationary way,        non-inflationary way,            inflationary way, and
                                                         and does not crowd out        and does not crowd out             does not crowd out
                                                           private investment             private investment              private investment
External public debt to              20.9%          2008 Sustainable level of     2009   Sustainable level of     2010    Sustainable level of    2011
GDP ratio                                                   public debt, with              public debt, with           public debt, with external
                                                           external public debt          external public debt           public debt ratio below
                                                           ratio below relevant          ratio below relevant              relevant threshold
                                                                 threshold                     threshold

Pillar 1: Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Public Finances
Number of first-level       No first-level          2008 Information              2009 Three first-level          2010 Five first-level           2011
spending units and          government spending          requirements to               government spending             government spending
programs covered by         units or programs with       support results-              units, each including           units, each including
results-oriented budgets    results-oriented budgets     oriented budgets are          increased number of             increased number of
                                                         identified through three      programs, covered by            programs, and three
                                                         pilot results-oriented        results-oriented budgets.       reporting on actual
                                                         budgets.                                                      performance.




                                                                                  53

Programming of public        No standard guidelines 2008 Initial steps taken in   2009 Increased transparency  2010 Increase accountability    2011
investment over medium for programming public             improving public             and accountability in        for implementation of
term horizon: Procedures investment; public               investment                   public investment            public investment
for preparing, prioritizing, capital expenditures by      programming by               programming and              program and further
selecting, and monitoring first level spending            piloting guidelines for      improved standards for       increase transparency in
public investment projects units reported at the          preparing public             preparing public             public investment
                             aggregate in budget          investment projects in       investment projects.         programming.
                                                          two spending units.
Pillar 2: Improving the Effectiveness of the Social Safety Net
Percent of poor and in       30.4% of extreme poor Mid- At least 30% or more 2009 At least 40% or more of 2010      Approaching 50% of the     2011
particular, extreme poor          19% of poor        2007 of the extreme poor              the extreme poor               extreme poor
receiving Targeted Social
Assistance
Percent of TSA recipients              70%           Mid- At least 70% or more 2009 At least 70% or more       2010   At least 70% or more     2011
who are poor or extreme                              2007
poor
Share of bottom two                   20.7%          Mid- At least 35% or better 2009 At least 40% or better   2010 At least 45% at the end of 2011
quintiles with access to                             2007                                                                  the program
publicly subsidized health
insurance
Share of population with              12.3%          Mid- At least 25% or better 2009 At least 30% or better   2010   At least 35% or better   2011
access to health insurance                           2007

Pillar 3: Improving External Competitiveness
Paying Taxes rank in                   110           2008     Improvement in      2009 Improvement in ranking 2010   Improvement in ranking    2011
Doing Business                                                ranking by 5-10               by 5-10 percent              by 5-10 percent
                                                                   percent
Time required for tax          387 hours per year 2008 Reduction in number        2009 Reduction in number of  2010 Reduction in number of     2011
compliance                                                of hours used for            hours used for paying        hours used for paying
                                                          paying taxes by at least     taxes by at least 5          taxes by about 15 percent
                                                          5 percent                    percent                      relative to base-year
Time required to import      Time to export: 12 days 2008 Reduction in time to    2009 Reduction in time to    2010 Reduction in time to       2011
and export                   Time to import: 14           trade across borders by      trade across borders by      trade across borders by at
                             days                         at least 10 percent          at least 10 percent          least 20 percent relative
                                                          relative to baseline         relative to baseline         to baseline




                                                                                  54

         ANNEX 4: IMF ASSESSMENT LETTER (as updated on June 24, 2009)



                       Georgia--Assessment Letter to the World Bank
                                           June 24, 2009

This note provides the IMF staff's assessment of Georgia's macroeconomic developments and
prospects, for the purposes of the First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1, US$85
million equivalent to be released in a single tranche upon effectiveness) being considered by
the Executive Board of the World Bank on July 2, 2009. The assessment is based on
information gathered by an IMF mission that visited Tbilisi during April 28­May 8 to conduct
the third review under the Stand-By Arrangement, and on follow-up discussions with the
authorities.

Economic activity and confidence continue to be undermined by the global crisis and the
difficult domestic political environment.

        Early indicators for the first quarter (exports, remittances, tax revenues) point to a third
        consecutive quarter of year-on-year contraction in output, and real GDP is now
        projected to decline by 1½ percent in 2009. This is driven by the reduction in foreign
        inflows, a tightening of bank credit, and falling investment and consumption resulting
        from lower disposable incomes, rising unemployment, and political tensions. The
        balance of risks remains on the downside.

        Reflecting the slowdown and lower food and energy prices, inflationary pressures have
        abated. Inflation is projected at 3½ percent at end-2009 (compared to 5½ percent at
        end-2008).

        The external current account deficit--projected at 16.1 percent of GDP in 2009--is
        narrowing, led by declining imports and falling global commodity prices. Gross
        official reserves, at $1.53 billion at end-April 2009 (about 3 months of next year's
        expected imports), are projected to reach $1.64 billion at end-2009.

With limited capacity for monetary easing, the authorities' policy strategy to contain the
economic contraction is largely based on a donor-financed fiscal stimulus.

        Despite central bank efforts to ease monetary conditions, monetary aggregates and
        bank lending have continued to contract. In the first five months of 2009, total broad
        money has declined by 17.6 percent, while bank lending has contracted by 10 percent.
        To encourage domestic currency lending, the NBG has recently introduced foreign
        exchange swaps to help banks finance local currency loans. Staff cautioned against the
        risks inherent in foreign exchange swaps, highlighting the potential for abuse and
        speculation.


                                                 55

        The authorities' recently-presented budget supplement implies a deficit of around
        10 percent of GDP in 2009. In spite of an expected tax revenue shortfall, expenditure
        plans will be sustained mainly by additional external borrowing and higher
        privatization proceeds. The external public debt is expected to increase to over
        30 percent of GDP by end-2009 compared to just 17½ percent in 2007.

The increase in government debt associated with the fiscal response to the 2008 armed
conflict and subsequent economic crisis is sizeable, but does not raise immediate debt
sustainability concerns. Debt sustainability issues could become more pressing if the
economic downturn were more prolonged and deeper than expected, or if government support
of the financial sector became necessary. Staff and authorities agree on the need for
countercyclical policy, while stressing the importance of safeguarding medium-term debt
sustainability and moving to fiscal consolidation as soon as feasible.

External stability will continue to be supported by increased exchange rate flexibility.
The foreign exchange market has stabilized following a period of depreciation pressures until
mid-February. However, there is no evidence of a sustained resumption of foreign capital
inflows and the authorities' commitment to the exchange rate flexibility has not been fully
tested. Improvements in exchange rate management--through the introduction of auctions and
the phasing out of daily interventions in the market--have allowed a move to greater
exchange rate flexibility. The authorities have indicated that they intend to allow the new
system to operate unhindered if pressures in the foreign exchange market re-emerge.

The financial sector remains vulnerable, and continued efforts are needed to address
risks. Bank solvency and liquidity indicators improved after capital and liquidity injections
into the two largest banks, but the share of nonperforming loans to total loans has continued to
rise. Credit risk would be heightened by further output contraction or exchange rate
depreciation. The authorities have strengthened their supervisory efforts and are developing a
financial stability plan. This plan should contain policy actions to respond to potential
situations of stress by defining the roles and responsibilities of different players--the NBG,
the FSA and the government--under each circumstance.

Despite the difficult environment, Georgia's macroeconomic performance remains
satisfactory. All end-March quantitative performance criteria were observed. Both the fiscal
deficit and the level of international reserves are expected to be within the June targets, helped
by lower-than-expected pressures in the foreign exchange market since mid-February.
However, IMF staff and the authorities agreed to postpone the third review under the stand-by
arrangement, to allow time for further discussions on fiscal policies. This decision was
triggered by the emergence of discrepancies between the program fiscal targets for 2009 and
the supplementary budget submitted to parliament by the authorities after the conclusion of
the third review mission in May. A mission will visit Tbilisi in early July, with a view to
completing the third and the fourth reviews jointly in August. Continued donor support for
Georgia will be critical to the program's success, particularly in view of the deteriorating
economic environment and mounting fiscal pressures.

                                                56

A moderate economic recovery is envisaged to take hold in 2010, although GDP growth
is not expected to return to the fast pace of the past few years, and significant downside
risks remain. GDP growth is projected to stabilize at around 5 percent over the medium term.
This is predicated on the significant improvements in the business climate of recent years, a
continuation of structural reform implementation, and a recovery of FDI inflows. Inflation is
expected to remain moderate, supported by prudent monetary and fiscal policies. Risks to the
program include further declines in private capital inflows, exports, and remittances, delays in
official assistance, or prolonged domestic and regional political tensions. While the banking
sector has proven to be resilient to the economic crisis, it remains vulnerable to the combined
effect of output contraction and exchange rate depreciation because of its highly dollarized
loan portfolio.


Relations with the Fund

The 2009 Article IV consultation was concluded on March 23, 2009. An 18-month Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) for SDR 477.1 million (317 percent of quota) was approved on
September 15, 2008 in the wake of the August armed conflict with Russia. A first purchase of
SDR 161.7 million ($250 million) was disbursed upon approval. The authorities chose not to
make the purchase available after the first review, but purchased the full available amount of
SDR 126.2 million after the second review.




                                              57

                                           ANNEX 5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE


Georgia at a glance                                                                                                                                   6/2/09

                                                                                  Europe &         Lower
Key Development Indicators                                                          Central        middle
                                                                     Georgia           Asia       income            Age distribution, 2007
(2008)                                                                                                                          Male                   Female

Population, mid-year (millions)                                           4.4           446        3,435           75-79
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                            70         23,972       35,510
Population growth (%)                                                    -0.8           0.2           1.0          60-64

Urban population (% of total population)                                  53             64           42           45-49

                                                                                                                   30-34
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         10.8         2,697        6,543
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      2,480         6,052        1,905           15-19

GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                  4,760         11,262        4,585             0-4

                                                                                                                        6      4    2       0       2      4   6
GDP growth (%)                                                            2.1           6.9          10.2                       percent of total population
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                 2.9           6.7           9.1

(most recent estimate, 2003­2008)

Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, %)                            13             4             ..
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                            30             9             ..         Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                           71            70           69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                   39            21           38            60

Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                  ..            ..          25            50


Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                               ..           99           88            40

Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                             ..           96           77            30

Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                            95            98          112            20
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                          95            96          109
                                                                                                                    10

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                       99            95           88            0

Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                 93            89           55                     1990   1995      2000      2007


                                                                                                                         Georgia       Europe & Central Asia


Net Aid Flows                                              1980         1990          2000          2008  a



(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                        ..          0           169          382           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2007):
  United States                                                 ..          0            75           87           20
  Austria                                                       ..          0             1           55           10
  Germany                                                       ..          0            19           38            0

                                                                                                                  -10
Aid (% of GNI)                                                  ..        0.0           5.3           3.7         -20
Aid per capita (US$)                                            ..          0            36           87          -30

                                                                                                                  -40
Long-Term Economic Trends                                                                                         -50
                                                                                                                                  95                       05
Consumer prices (annual % change)                               ..        3.3           4.1          10.1
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                       1.0        22.4           4.7           9.9                    GDP                 GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                   ..        0.0           2.0           1.5
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                               ..          ..          100           88
                                                                                                                     1980­90 1990­2000             2000­08
                                                                                                                          (average annual growth %)

Population, mid-year (millions)                               5.1         5.5           4.7           4.4                 0.7           -1.5             -1.0
GDP (US$ millions)                                              ..      7,738         3,057       12,864                  0.4           -7.1              8.1
                                                                          (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 24.3         31.5          21.9          10.0                    ..             ..            1.3
Industry                                                    35.6         33.5          22.4          21.2                    ..             ..           11.3
  Manufacturing                                             27.9         24.2           9.1          12.0                    ..             ..           12.5
Services                                                    40.1         35.0          55.7          68.8                    ..             ..            9.7

Household final consumption expenditure                     55.8         64.8          90.5          84.9                    ..        23.1               5.8
General gov't final consumption expenditure                 13.0         10.2           8.5          14.3                    ..        32.1              23.4
Gross capital formation                                     29.1         30.7          26.6          30.3                    ..         23.6             10.2

Exports of goods and services                                   ..       39.9          23.0          28.7                    ..        17.6              12.7
Imports of goods and services                                   ..       45.7          39.7          58.3                    ..        14.2              15.1
Gross savings                                                   ..          ..          9.2           8.1


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2007.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                58

                                                                                                                                                                  Georgia

Balance of Payments and Trade                                            2000   2008
                                                                                           Governance indicators, 2000 and 2007
(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                                           459   2,426
Total merchandise imports (cif)                                           971   6,265       Voice and accountability
Net trade in goods and services                                          -521  -3,799
                                                                                                     Political stability
Current account balance                                                  -269  -2,862
   as a % of GDP                                                          -8.8  -22.2             Regulatory quality


Workers' remittances and                                                                                  Rule of law

   compensation of employees (receipts)                                   274    696            Control of corruption

Reserves, including gold                                                  109   1,499                                   0       25            50              75    100

                                                                                                    2007
Central Government Finance                                                                                                  Country's percentile rank (0-100)
                                                                                                    2000                      higher values imply better ratings

(% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                                       15.4   30.7       Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

   Tax revenue                                                           14.6   24.9
Current expenditure                                                      16.7   28.5
                                                                                         Technology and Infrastructure                                       2000   2007
Overall surplus/deficit                                                   -1.7   -6.3
                                                                                        Paved roads (% of total)                                             93.4    38.6
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                           Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                                              20      25     subscribers (per 100 people)                                          15     72
   Corporate                                                               20     15    High technology exports
                                                                                          (% of manufactured exports)                                         10.8    7.1
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                         Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                    1,638  5,345    Agricultural land (% of land area)                                      43     43
Total debt service                                                        118     119   Forest area (% of land area)                                          39.7   39.7
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                                     ­      ­   Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                             ..    2.3

Total debt (% of GDP)                                                    53.6   41.5    Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)                     12,600    13,216
Total debt service (% of exports)                                        12.5     3.2   Freshwater withdrawal (billion cubic meters)                            ..    1.6

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                                   131   1,239   CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                                         0.96    1.1
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                               0   118
                                                                                        GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                          (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                3.8    5.2
   Composition of total external debt, 2008
                                                                                        Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                          611    754
                                        Short-term, 0
                                                 IBRD, 0      IDA, 995

                                                                                         World Bank Group portfolio                                          2000   2007

              Private, 1,312                                                             (US$ millions)

                                                                                         IBRD
                                                                                          Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                   0      0
                                                                   IMF, 442               Disbursements                                                          ­      ­
                                                                                          Principal repayments                                                   ­      ­
                            Bilateral, 549                                                Interest payments                                                      ­      ­
                                                    Other multi-
   US$ millions                                     lateral, 203                         IDA
                                                                                          Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                347     885
                                                                                          Disbursements                                                         18     72
Private Sector Development                                               2000   2008      Total debt service                                                     3     13

Time required to start a business (days)                                     ­      3    IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                               ­    4.0     Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                             20     25
Time required to register property (days)                                    ­      3       of which IFC own account                                            20     25
                                                                                          Disbursements for IFC own account                                     16      2
Ranked as a major constraint to business                                 2000   2007      Portfolio sales, prepayments and
   (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                      repayments for IFC own account                                       0     16
     Economic and regulatory policy uncertainty                             ..  44.7
     Anticompetitive or informal practices                                  ..  38.2     MIGA
                                                                                          Gross exposure                                                         2      0
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                                     0.8   13.6     New guarantees                                                         0      0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                          30.5    20.4


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                      6/2/09
.. indicates data are not available. ­ indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                     59

Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                      Georgia


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                         Georgia


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                            1990         1995             2000           2007
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)                                             ..         4.5              8.7           13.4
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                        ..           ..            52.1            21.3
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                ..           ..               ..           5.6
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                        ..           ..             3.1               ..


Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                       97            ..            100              93
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                         ..          84             101              92
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                   95           77               79             90
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                            100            ..            100                ..


Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                            98            ..              99             99
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                           45           45               41             47
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                              ..           7                7               9


Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                       47           45               45             32
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                            43           41               41             39
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                          16           61               73             86


Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                      ..           ..              32             30
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                      ..           ..             96                ..
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                          ..           ..             41                ..


Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                            ..           ..               ..            0.1
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                           38            ..               ..            82
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                ..          18               34             79


Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                      ..           ..             76              99
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                ..           ..             83              93
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                        ..           ..            39.7           39.7
 Nationally protected areas (% of total land area)                                                         ..           ..               ..            2.3
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                  3.2          0.5              1.0            1.1
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                               2.4          2.2              3.8            5.2


Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                    9.9         11.0             10.8            12.6
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                               0.0          0.0              4.1            59.1
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                         0.0          0.0              0.5             8.2
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                       ..           ..             2.4             5.4



  Education indicators (%)                                Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)            ICT indicators (per 100 people)

   125                                                     100                                               80

   100                                                                                                       70
                                                            75                                               60
    75                                                                                                       50
    50                                                      50                                               40

    25                                                                                                       30
                                                            25                                               20
     0
          2000       2002        2004        2006 2007                                                       10

                                                             0                                               0
                                                                       1990   1995    2000    2007                  2000      2002      2004      2006 2007
              Primary net enrollment ratio

              Ratio of girls to boys in primary &                                                                       Fixed + mobile subscribers
                                                                  Georgia        Europe & Central Asia
              secondary education                                                                                       Internet users




Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                            6/2/09

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                60

MAP SECTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33410

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         voir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bank                                                                         any

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 World                                                                                                                                                                                   or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The                                                                                                    World                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Reser
                                                                                                 CENTERS                                                                                                                         BOUNDARIES                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mingechevir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           other                                                  The                                                                      territory,
                                                     CENTER                                                                                                                                        BOUNDAR                                                                                                                                                 Unit                                                 any                                                  of                                                                              any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Iori
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
                                                           (AO)                                         (ASSR)                                                                                            (AO)                             (ASSR)                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                 part
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Design                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                     boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lagodehi
                         TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                on                                                                          status                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               siteli-T           skaroT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Map                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To evlaxY                                                                                                                  46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                legal                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                imply,
                              AND                              OBLAST                                         REPUBLIC            AL                                                                          OBLAST                             REPUBLIC                           BOUNDARIES                                                                             by                                         denominations                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      not                                                                               on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Alazani                                                                                                                                               (Kura)                                                             AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         do

                                 CITIES                                                                                             CAPIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          colors,                                                                                                                                                                          acceptance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TIONAL                                                                         produced                                                                                                      map                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          judgment                                            or
            GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                    ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                         was                                                                                                      this                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gurjaani                                                                                                             Mtkvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on                                                                              any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Iori

                                                                                                                                         TIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         map                                               boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i                                                                                    elaviT

                                       SELECTED                      AUTONOMOUS                                       AUTONOMOUS               NA              RIVERS       MAIN       RAILROADS                    AUTONOMOUS                           AUTONOMOUS                                 INTERNA                                                                                This                                                      The                                            shown                                                                            Group,                                     endorsement



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iroI                                                                                                                                                                            Rustavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Akhmeta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake
                                               N°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mtskheta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sevan
                                                 44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kazbegi     n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              neuli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T'BLISI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kazreti

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tsveri                                                                            m)                                                     u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Vladikavkaz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (5047
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mqinvar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gori

E°4                                                                                                                                                     GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o                                                                                                                                     South             Ossetia                                                                                                  Mtkvari (Kura)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E°4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To    mavir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            klirivK            Chinvali s'khinvaliT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ninocminda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Khashuri

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ahalkalaki

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Oni                              Sachkhere


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ambrolauri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tkibuli                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Erzurum

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             inoiR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kutaisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mestia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Akhaltsikhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s


                                                                                TION                                                                                                                                            a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ilakcsineksT                                                                     Samtredia




   E4°2                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dzvari                                                                                                                                                                                    Senaki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rioni                                             Ozurgeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  irugnI                                                  Zugdidi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TURKEY                                                   To                                                                            E4°


                                                                                                                                                                                                u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AJARAADJARA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Erzurum                                     42


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tkvarceli                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L o w l a n d
                                                                                    FEDERA                                                                                       a                                                                                                                                                      Ko l k h i d a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Poti                                                                             Kobuleti

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Batumi

                                                                                                                                                                      C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ochamchira

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ABKHAZIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Suhumi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To                                    Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rabzonT                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60

                                                                                          RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                                                                                  Gagra

       E4°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Black                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
          40
                     N°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0                                         0
                       44                                                                                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E°
                                                                                                                                                    Soai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOVEMBER 2004

