                                                                97314 September 15, 2010
Georgia: Expanding Health Insurance Coverage and Access to Quality




 HEALTH CARE

 Expanding Health Insurance Coverage and Access to Quality
 Health Care




Overview
Drawing upon International Development Association (IDA) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) funding and expertise since the mid-2000s, Georgia
has been implementing far-reaching policy and institutional reforms to expand health insurance
coverage to more than 1 million persons in 2009, strengthen the organization and delivery of
primary health care services in rural areas, and improve the health status of the population.


Challenge                                            MULTIMEDIA
The government of Georgia has been striving
since the mid-2000s to improve the performance
of the health system by securing a better health
status for the population; ensuring that the
poorest Georgians have access to health care
services through the Medical Insurance Program
(MIP); and using the resources available to fund
health care—although limited—in an effective
and efficient way. A core priority has been to
achieve the health Millennium Development
Goals. Another priority has been to strengthen
the primary health care system, particularly in
rural areas. Lastly, a key policy challenge has
been to reduce the impoverishing impact of out-of-pocket
health spending. Georgia has a low level of public                $23.5
                                                                  million
expenditure on health and some of the highest out-of-pocket
expenditures out of 53 European countries, and nearly twice
as high as the average among even its Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS) comparators.                             IDA/IBRD Health Sector
                                                                  Development Project provided
                                                                  $23.5 million for financing and
                                                                  technical assistance.
Approach
IDA/IBRD financing and technical assistance have supported


                                                                  $85
the implementation of government-formulated health care
sector reforms. Initially, these reforms aimed to shift the
healthcare delivery system away from the heavy emphasis

                                                                  million
on hospital care to primary health care. More recently, in
2006, the government began implementing additional
reforms to: (i) increase the private sector role in health
financing and service provision; (ii) target public funds to      IDA First Development Policy
                                                                  Operation provided $85 million
finance health care for the poor and other vulnerable groups;     to budget support for many
(iii) channel public health financing through private health      sectors, including health.
insurance companies, and (iv) strengthen the regulatory role
of the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs.


Results                                                               $50
       Approximately 72 % of the rural population in selected
       project areas now has access to primary care services
                                                                      million
       within 30 minutes of their place of residence.                 The IDA/IBRD Second
                                                                      Development Policy Operation
                                                                      provided $50 million to budget
       The MIP, introduced in June 2006, which is targeted            support for many sectors,
                                                                      including health.
       to the poor and offers a free, benefit package
       financed through general tax revenues, covered
       900,000 persons in 2009, up from 750,000 persons in
       2008.                                                          MORE INFORMATION

                                                                       Health Sector Development
       Health insurance coverage for poor women of
                                                                       Project
       reproductive age (15 - 49 years) and children under
       five years of age expanded over the 2008-2009                   Georgia Health System
       period by 29 % and 59 %, respectively.                          Performance Assessment [pdf]


       The number of medical consultations per person
       increased from 1.4 in 2003 to close to 2 in 2009; the          PARTNERS
       vaccination rate for common childhood diseases                  European Union 
       increased from 78 %% in 2004 to 98 %in 2009, and
       the proportion of tuberculosis (TB) patients receiving          USAID 
       care at primary care facilities in accordance with the          WHO 
       directly observed treatment strategy increased from 3
                                                                       UNICEF 
       % in 2004 to 53 % in 2009.
                                                                       U.K. National Institute for Health
       The use of primary care services in some regions                and Clinical Excellence 
       supported by IDA/IBRD are now higher than the
       national average: in Adjara region by 18 %, in Imereti
       by 31 % and in Shida Kartli by 6 %.
                                                                   
       The expansion of health insurance for the poor has
       led to a 50 % decrease in out-of-pocket payments for
       medical care among beneficiaries.

       2009 survey data indicate that 80 % of patients are satisfied with services provided.

       Support is being provided for the full-scale development of the Social Information
       Management System (SIMS) at the Social Services Agency (SSA) to provide
       consolidated automated information on all registered beneficiaries of the government-
       funded medical insurance programs, as well as of beneficiaries receiving social
       assistance from the different programs managed by the Ministry of Labor, Health and
       Social Affairs.



Voices


     It's very important for us to have training. Even if it were
   every month, I would move heaven and earth to get there.
        — Dr. Mzevinar Bolkvadze, the only physician in her village
                                                     of Tsoniarisi.


Toward the Future
At a time when Georgia faces not only the effects of the global economic crisis, but also
significant health challenges, it is crucial for the government to continue to consolidate and
further advance its ambitious health system reforms to protect the poor and the most
vulnerable. While coverage of the MIP, targeted to the poor, has been scaled up and a new
publicly cofinanced program has been introduced to expand coverage of health insurance in
the medium term, a significant share of the poor are not covered and thus have limited access
to quality health care services and protection against out-of-pocket health care expenditures.
Georgia also faces significant challenges in terms of fulfilling its public stewardship role with
respect to the growing private health insurance industry.
