Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 18486
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3609-EC)
October 20, 1998
Finance, Infrastructure and Private Sector Development
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT = SUCRE
US$1.00- s./5526.5
(as of September 8, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAF            Andean Corporation for Development (Corporaci6n Andina
de Fomento)
CFN            National Finance Corporation (Corporaci6n Financiera
iNacional)
BCE            Central Bank of Ecuador (Banco Central del Ecuador)
BEDE           Ecuadorian Bank for Development (Banco Ecuatoriano de
Desarollo)
BEV            Ecuadorian Bank for Housing (Banco Ecuatoriano de la
Vivienda)
FSAL           Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
PFIs           Participating Financial Institutions
PGCM           Global Program for Multi-Sectoral Credit
(Programa Global de Credito Multisectoral)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SB             Superintendency of Banks
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Andres Solimano
Sector Manager: Danny Leipziger 
Task Team leader: Jyoti Shukla



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.
Evaluation Summaiy  ......................................................                                       ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND..I
B. STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.1
C. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                                                                              2
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..3
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                                           6
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                                                        7
G. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                    ..8
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................................8
1. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                                                                        9
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................................................................                        10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE I. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .I 
TABLE 2   RELATED BANK LOANS/IDA CREDITS .................................................................. 12
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMEBTABLE ..................................................................                  12
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATED ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............... 13
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT PERFORMANCE ................................................ 13
TABLE 6. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ....................................................... 13
TABLE 7.  STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT ..................................................................  13
TABLE SA PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                       14
TABLE 8B  PROJECT FINANCING ..................................................................                  14
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ..................................................................           14
TABLE 10. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .15
TABLE I1. COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .......................... 20
TABLE 12. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..................................................................    20
TABLE 13. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF MISSIONS .................................................................. 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION AND COMMENTS TO THE ICR .................. 21
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS ...................................................... 47
Table 1. Loan Disbursements by Province
Table. 2. Loan Disbursements by Sector
Table 3. Loan Disbursements by Size
Table 4. Loan Disbursements by Participating Financial Intermediary
Table 5. Loan Disbursements by Tenor
Table 6. PGCM: Loan Disbursements by Province
Table 7. PGCM: Loan Disbursements by Sector
Table 8. PGCM: Loan Disbursements by Size
Table 9. PGCM: Loan Disbursements by Participating Financial Intermediary
Table 10. PGCM: Loan Disbursements by Tenor
Table 11. CFN: Selected Financial Data (1992 - 1997)
Table 12. CFN: Financial and Operational Ratios (1992 - 1997)
Map



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENTF PROJECT
(Loan 3609-EC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), for the Private
Sector Development Project in Ecuador for which Loan 36,09-EC in the amount
of US$75.00 million was approved on June 1 st, 1993 and became effective on
February 15, 1994.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1998, fifteen months earlier than
originally envisaged. Last disbursement was made on July 31, 1996, but the
Project was kept open for a longer period of time because of on-going policy
dialogue with the implementing agency. Co-financing was provided in the order
of US$102.2 million by the Inter-American Development B3ank (IDB), and
US$25.0 million by Andean Corporation for Development (CAF).
The ICR was prepared by Marcelo Romero (LCCEC) and Philippe
Beuzelin (Consultant) and was reviewed by Jyoti Shukla (Task Manager,
LCSFP) and Krishna Challa (Sector Leader, LCSFP), and Maria Victoria Lister,
(Quality Assurance Officer, LCSFP). Preparation of this ICR was begun in
Washington and completed during a completion mission from June 12 to 19,
1998. The ICR is based on available documentation in the project files and
interviews with Bank staff, co-financiers, Ecuadorian officials and
representatives of the participating financial institutions and final beneficiaries.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's implementation (Appendix A) and by commenting on the draft ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3609-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Private Sector Development Project (the Project hereafter) was identified and
appraised in the backdrop of substantial economic adjustment and policy reform in
Ecuador. During 1989-92, the Ecuadorian Government took important measures to
reform the financial system and to improve the business environment for the private
sector. These measures included the deregulation of directed commercial bank credit,
restructuring the role of the Central Bank of Ecuador from direct intermediation to a
lender of last resort, full liberalization of interest rates, reduction in the reserve
requirements and the introduction of auctions for government securities. In parallel, the
Government also undertook actions to improve the policy environment for private sector
development by liberalizing trade policy and the foreign investment regime and by
introducing a new labor law. Identified and appraised in the context of important
structural changes, the main development objectives of the Project were to support
private sector development by:
*  Improving the efficiency of the financial sector by reducing state
competition to private banks through restructuring CFN into a second-tier
bank, eliminating the intermediation role of the Central Bank, reducing
bank forced investments, introducing interest capitalization schemes for
term lending, and, the provision of a wider spectrum of financial services.
*  Improving the efficiency of the productive sectors by supporting further
trade liberalization and sale of CFN's prior equity investments.
*  Enabling the private sector to take advantage of an improved economic
environment through timely provision of term financing for investments.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the principal Project instrument was a multi-sectoral
line of credit to provide term financing to private enterprises. The line of credit was
complemented with several conditions for the maintenance and deepening of policy
reforms mentioned above, which were framed as conditions for continued disbursement
on the line of credit.
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The overall focus of the Bank's sectoral
objectives for the liberalization of the financial sector and the policy environment for
private sector development was appropriate. In particular, the restructuring of CFN as a
second tier institution and provision of term financing were timely interventions to
support growth in an economy undergoing substantial adjustment. However, the gamut
of objectives ascribed to the Project was broad and all-encompassing. In retrospect, these
conditions were important monitoring indicators to ensure continued policy reform and



iii
entirely appropriate conditions for continued disbursement. However, these should more
appropriately have been defined as pre-conditions for continued disbursements and the
attainment of the sectoral objectives rather than the objectives of this operation per se.
4.    Implementation Experience and Results.  Despite effectiveness delays at the
outset', the Project was fully disbursed by July 31, 1996, and closed on March 31, 1998,
fourteen months earlier than the Closing Date. The objective of restructuring CFN into a
second-tier bank was largely achieved with CFN's restructuring and considerable
institutional development. CFN's second tier disbursements increased thirty two fold
between 1992 and 1997 - from 26 percent of CFN's total cdisbursements in 1992 to 1 00
percent by 1997. However, despite its growing role as a second tier institution, CFN
continued to refinance some of its existing first tier portfolio during this period. This was
due in part because of legal constraints that did not allow CFN to place these loans, many
of which were in arrears, with other banks below face value. Nevertheless, CFN's first
tier portfolio declined considerably, from 41 percent in 1993 to only 2.3 percent of its
total portfolio in mid 1998. CFN also divested virtually its entire equity portfolio, with
only a small portfolio of US$ 2.3 million remaining, which is currently in the process of
divestment. Given this progress, overall, the Project's objectives of the transformation of
CFN into a second tier institution are considered to be achieved. CFN has clearly
emerged as a capable second tier institution with sufficient institutional capacity, a sound
financial position and a demonstrated ability to mobilize additional resources. CFN has
also successfully broadened its financial assistance to the private sector through enhanced
financial services to PFIs, and overall, project objectives are considered to be achieved.
5.    The objective of providing term financing to private enterprises was fully
achieved, with the Project financing 186 investments of average loan size $460,000 in
twelve of Ecuador's twenty one provinces, and a high concentration in the coastal and
highland regions. In particular, the Project financed export oriented enterprises in the
production of bananas, shrimps, flowers and fish, and was also instrumental in adopting
and enacting environmental mitigation plans for private investments. CFN has estimated
that the aggregate ex-post financial return for a sample of enterprises (10 percent sample)
was virtually identical to that estimated at sub-project approval, and the ex-post economic
rate of return was higher than projected by 4.0 percentage points. The higher economic
rate of return can be explained by the foreign exchange earnings of the largely export-
oriented sub-projects, their high labor content and utilization of domestic raw materials.
6.    The sectoral policy conditionality was also adhered to and Project objectives of
maintaining specific policy reforms and macroeconomic targets were met, including the
elimination of the financial intermediation role of the Central Bank, liberalization of
interest rates, reduction of forced investments for commercial banks, trade liberalization
and the macroeconomic stabilization program for 1993-1994.
Effectiveness was delayed due to a change in Government and cross-conditionality with a parallel IDB
loan that required capitalization of CFN.



iv
7.    Project Costs and Financing. The Project's estimated cost at appraisal was US$
252 million. The foreign exchange cost was estimated at US$ 202 million with financing
from IBRD (US$ 75 million), IDB (US$ 102 million) CAF (US$ 25 million). Local
costs, estimated at US$ 49.8 million, were to be financed by Participating Financial
Institutions (US$ 12.4 million) and beneficiaries (US$ 37.4 million). In reality, loan
resources were used to support a much larger program of investments with total project
cost amounting to US$925.5 million, because the demand for loan resources was much
higher than expected during some of the years of project implementation. The additional
financing required was provided by the PFIs (US$133 million), the beneficiaries (US$
207 million) and an additional line of credit from a regional private entity - CAF (US$
333 million). The additional leverage achieved in terms of the mobilization of
significantly larger complementary private resources is a very positive feature of the
project's implementation and its catalytic role in providing term financing for private
sector investments.
8.    Sustainability. The sustainability of CFN as a second-tier institution is likely
because of its legal structure, sound financial situation and considerable institutional
development with a well functioning management and sound operational procedures.
The new CFN law, enacted in September 1997, confirms its role as a full-fledged second-
tier financial institution. It does, however, continue to authorize CFN to carry out first-
tier operations, but only in specific areas approved by the Monetary Board upon request
of CFN's Board of Directors (Article 15 (j) 2). CFN's financial position is sound with
total assets increasing almost fivefold from US$ 183 million to US$ 883 million and
equity rising from US$ 1 11 million to US$ 190 million during 1993-97. Its capital
adequacy ratio of 22 percent and long-term debt to equity of only 2.66 underscore its
sound position and indicators of return on assets and equity have also showed healthy
increases in recent years. It has also been successful in mobilizing additional resources
from other sources such as the CAF, the IDB and its own placements on the local bond
markets. It is creditable that CFN has been able to maintain this satisfactory financial
profile, despite the considerable volatility that Ecuador's financial markets have
witnessed over the last few years. In the future, CFN will have to take special care to
maintain this position in the face of the fragility of some of the banking institutions in the
country. If it succeeds, CFN will be able to play a key role in establishing healthy links
between the banking system and the private capital markets.
9.    Where the sustainability of the Project is less certain is in the continued provision
of medium to long term finance by PFIs without the support of a CFN-backed line of
credit. Though CFN's operation provided a useful demonstration effect, commercial
banks' willingness to extend the term maturities of their own financing is, however,
subject to much more complex forces-including their expectations of the stability of the
macroeconomic and political environment, as well as their own ability to raise medium to
long term money. These factors, were, of course beyond the scope of project objectives
and activities. Nevertheless, the Project did induce PFIs to establish special units to deal
with evaluation and monitoring of their longer term projects, and to invest resources in
the special training of these staff.



v
and to assign it the role of a federal reserve bank. The functioning of the Ecuadorian
financial system is now entirely based on market determined interest rates and market
determined interest rates are now an accepted tenet in the financial system and for the
allocation of investment resources. Continued trade liberalization is also likely as the
Government is now signing regional and bilateral trade agreements and customs union.
As a vote of confidence in this process, IBRD recently approved an International Trade
and Integration Project to deepen Ecuador's export capacit y.
11.   Bank Performance. The Bank's role in identifying the Project was satisfactory.
Important issues affecting the development of the private sector were addressed and
appropriate measures were recommended. Appraisal was largely satisfactory but could
have been clearer in differentiating between immediate project objectives from longer
term sectoral objectives. Because the Project had initially lbeen designed as an adjustment
operation and was subsequently changed into a loan to CFN, the project objectives
included factors over which CFN had little, if any, control, and were really more in the
nature of pre-conditions for project success rather than objectives. Examples include
measures related to trade liberalization and macroeconomic stabilization. Nor did the
appraisal establish specific performance indicators to monitor project implementation.
Project supervision was only marginally satisfactory. Betvween Board approval in mid-
1993 and 1997, four supervision missions took place, with thin staffing, though this was
compensated for by recruiting a field office staff with knowledge and familiarity with the
sector, who kept in close contact with the implementing agency. As a result, the task
manager was able to monitor the majority of the implementation issues through telephone
and follow-up by the field office. On the issue of first tier loans, the Bank first attempted
to resolve this issue informally by asking CFN not to submit any disbursement requests to
the Bank until this issue was resolved. This approach was successful in stopping new
first tier loans being made from CFN, but did not completely stop the refinancing of first-
tier loans, given CFN's legal and political constraints cited. above. In retrospect, a formal
notice of suspension may have provided the Bank with more leverage and resolved the
issue more cleanly. It may, however, have risked client relations and disrupted on-going
private investment projects.
12.   Borrower Performance. Overall, Government performance was satisfactory, but
with some reservations. It kept to its commitment of the policy reform agenda agreed to.
On CFN's part, it carried out the agreed reorganization needed to operate as a second-tier
bank and made a successful effort at institutional development. CFN was also active in
promoting sub-loans and the Project was disbursed earlier than expected. However, CFN
failed to completely discontinue first-tier operations by refinancing existing first-tier
loans and also did not completely liquidate its equity portfolio. Because of these
shortcomings, its overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory.
13.   Overall Assessment. Overall, project outcome is rated Marginally Satisfactory
because of: (a) the transformation of CFN into a well functioning and financially sound
second-tier bank (b) the significant mobilization of private financing and the greater
involvement of PFIs in term lending; (c) the significant financial support provided to
private enterprises; (d) the implementation of environmental mitigation plans for private



vi
investments; and (e) the maintenance of significant reforms in the financial and trade
sectors. However, Project outcome is evaluated to be less than fully satisfactory because
of its inability to achieve full and complete liquidation of CFN" first tier and equity
portfolio and the fact that CFN's law still allows it to engage in first tier operations. That
notwithstanding, large scale or substantive engagement in first tier operations on part of
CFN is seen as unlikely.
14.   Key Lessons Learned:
* CFN's mandate and ability to provide not just discounting operations but a broad
spectrum of financial services to its client banks significantly increased its
effectiveness as a second tier institution.
* The staffing and competence of the Treasury and Financial departments are key to the
success of a second tier institution such as CFN.
* In order to measure adequately the development impact of financial credit programs
and PSD projects, it is necessary to build in monitoring and evaluation activities as
part of the project design.
* Though lines of credit operations can provide much needed, but temporary, term
financing to domestic industry, the development of a market for medium term
financing is a much more complex task.
* It is important to distinguish conceptually between the pre-conditions for a project's
success with its objectives. In this case, pre-conditions were labeled as project
objectives though there were no project activities that could have effectively
accomplished these objectives.
* In order to overcome the reluctance of financial institutions and private enterprises to
implement measures to mitigate the environmental impact of productive investments,
it is essential to establish adequate regulations and enforcement mechanisms and to
provide special resources to finance the mitigation investments.



ECUADOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3609-EC)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
I.    The Private Sector Development Project (the Project hereafter) was identified and
appraised in the backdrop of substantial economic adjustment and policy reform in
Ecuador. During 1989-92, the Ecuadorian Government, with the support of a Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL 2897-EC) from the World Bank, took important
measures to reform the financial system. In 1991, commercial bank investments were
deregulated with the reduction of forced investment requirements from 10% to 1% of
bank deposits and the elimination of the required subscription to the shares of the Central
Bank of Ecuador (BCE). In May 1992, the New Monetary Regime Law also restructured
the role of the Central Bank, eliminating its financial intennediation role and restricting
its role to the provision of credit to temporary liquidity needs as a lender of last resort.
By the end of 1992, the Government further advanced financial sector reform with full
liberalization of interest rates, reduction in the reserve requirements and the introduction
of auctioning of government securities to regulate the liquidity of the financial system.
2.   In parallel, the Government also took substantial reforms to improve the business
environment for the private sector, liberalizing the trade regime by (i) reducing tariffs to
5%-20% (with the exception of vehicles), (ii) removing remaining import and export
quantitative restrictions (with some exceptions justified by security, health and
environmental concerns), and (iii) simplifying export and import procedures.
Additionally, the Government also introduced a new Labor Law to reduce labor market
rigidities, liberalized the foreign investment regime and en,acted a new Mining Law to
rationalize mining operations.
B. STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBIJECTIVES
3.   Identified and appraised in the context of these important changes in the
Ecuadorian economy, the main development objectives of the project as defined by the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to support private sector development by:
Improving the efficiency of the financial sector This was to be accomplished by
reducing state competition to private banks through restructuring CFN into a second-
tier bank and the elimination of the intermediation role of the Central bank;
supporting interest rate liberalization and reducing forced bank investments;
introducing the use of interest capitalization schemes for term lending to reduce the
impact of high inflation; and, enabling the provision of a wider spectrum of financial
services through commercial banks and finance compEmies.



2
*  Improving the efficiency of the productive sectors through supporting the
reduction of tariff rates and quantitative restrictions, simplifying custom procedures
and, improving the climate and scope for private investments by labor, mining and
other legislation, and sale of CFN's prior equity investments and appropriate
regulatory changes.
*  Enabling the private sector to take advantage of an improved economic
environment through the timely provision of term financing for investments.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the principal project instrument was a multi-sectoral
line of credit to provide term financing to private enterprises in this improved policy
environment. The line of credit was complemented with several conditions for the
maintenance of several of policy reforms mentioned above, most of which had already
been undertaken, and continued progress on others that were still on-going or yet to be
undertaken. Fulfillment of these policy conditionalities was required for the continued
disbursement on the line of credit.
C. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    Overall Project Objectives. The overall focus of the Bank's sectoral objectives
for the liberalization of the financial sector and the policy environment for private sector
development was appropriate given the status of the Bank's economic dialogue and the
pace of reform in Ecuador. However, the gamut of objectives cited above was broad and
all-encompassing and similar to the policy matrix for an adjustnent operation. Indeed, at
the identification stage, the Project had first been conceived of as an adjustment
operation. By appraisal, as most of the policy reforms had already been undertaken, the
project design was changed to a line of credit operation, while maintaining the policy
matrix developed for a potential adjustment operation as additional conditionality. In
retrospect, the maintenance of policy reforms was an important monitoring checkpoint
and constituted an entirely appropriate set of conditions for continued disbursement.
However, maintenance of these sectoral conditions, was not only outside the control of
CFN, but also should more appropriately have been defined as pre-conditions for the
attainment of the sectoral objectives rather than project objectives per se2. In the Loan
Agreement, the sectoral policy reform maintenance conditions were defined as general
objectives rather than specific targets to be achieved, and this gave the Bank the
flexibility to use the threat of suspension of the line of credit in the event of a major
2 Interestingly, the project objectives as defined in the Loan Agreement are narrower than those in the
SAR. As defined in the Loan Agreement Schedule 2, project objectives are to "support private sector
development in Ecuador by implementing the Guarantor's (Government) Program, achieving
institutional strengthening of the Borrower (CFN) and the Financial Intermediaries, and providing
equipment (through leasing) and mid- and long-term financing to facilitate Investment Projects."



3
across the board setback in the country's economic reform program, while correctly not
requiring such a blunt instrument to be used for monitoring small changes in each of the
policy condition.
6.    Financial Sector Objectives. Within the financial sector, the objective of
reducing state competition with private banks through the restructuring of CFN into a
second tier bank was an appropriate objective and well within the scope of Project
activities. Project objectives of additionally encouraging the provision of financial
services by commercial banks and finance companies in lieu of CFN and the introduction
of interest capitalization schemes to mitigate the impact of high inflation were also
appropriate objectives to encourage the development of the financial sector. The
liberalization of interest rates and reduction of forced bank investments, were appropriate
sectoral conditionality to ensure the maintenance of an appropriate policy environment.
7.    Productive Sectors. The sale of CFN's existing eqluity investments in thirty-two
enterprises, was an appropriate, if somewhat limited, approach to develop the stock
exchange market through a demonstration effect as the reluctance of private companies to
open up their capital to outsiders has been a significant barrier to the growth of the stock
market. In addition, Project design also provided assurances that trade liberalization,
simplification of customs procedures, legislation related to labor and mining, would
remain in force.
8.    Private sector. Providing term resources for investments was justified from
available information on demand for credit and to jumpstart private activities in a period
of adjustment and reform. Two independent surveys of manufacturing firms and
financial institutions carried out during project preparation estimated demand for credit of
US$ 200 million in the next four years. Actual experience showed demand to be even
higher.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Financial sector. In the financial sector, the Project was largely successful in its
primary objective of restructuring CFN into a second tier bank. CFN's internal
restructuring began even before Board approval and continued through the project with
an organizational restructuring and reduction in staff by 3:3 percent. CFN's
disbursements for first-tier loans decreased from US$ 40 million in 1992 to zero in 1997.
Nevertheless, CFN, though not actually disbursing for new first-tier loans, continued to
refinance some of the existing loans. In 1997, in response to repeated reminders by the
Bank, CFN made a commitment to completely stop such r efinancing but was not able to
execute this pledge as the new CFN law did not allow it to auction these holdings, most
of which were in arrears, and CFN was not able to place them with banks at face value
because of their arrears. Nor were CFN and the Government keen to take the politically
unpopular step of calling these loans, as this would almost certainly imply the closing
down these enterprises. Nevertheless, CFN's first tier poitfolio declined considerably,
from 41 percent in 1993 to only 2.3 percent of its total portfolio in mid 1998. As regards,
the divestment of CFN's equity investments, CFN divested virtually its entire portfolio,



4
with only a small portfolio of US$ 2.3 million remaining. Of this amount, the portfolio
equivalent to US$ 1.3 million is in the process of liquidation, and CFN's management has
already approved the resources for the divestment of the remaining US$ 1.0 million as
well. Given this progress, overall, the Project's objectives of the transformation of CFN
into a second tier institution are considered to be achieved.
10.   The Project also achieved its objectives of the provision of a wide spectrum of
financial and non-financial services to the private sector through banks and finance
companies. In particular, CFN enhanced its financial services to PFIs from a discount
facility to a broader menu of services such as upfront and discount loans, promotion of
investments in export potential goods, export credit lines to foreign banks, equity
participation in private enterprises, promotion of capital markets through issuance of
titles, bonds and certificates, participation in futures, options and derivatives markets,
technical assistance to PFIs, and provision of civil and commercial fiduciary services. To
deal with the latter, considered as a viable income generating activity, a new managerial
unit was created for that purpose in 1997. The interest capitalization scheme for term
lending was also introduced. It was not, however, used very much as banks and finance
companies did not find it worthwhile.
11.   As regards the broader sectoral objectives, the liberalization of interest rates and
the reduction of banks' forced investments had been accomplished before the Project
became effective and no reversal took place during Project implementation. In addition,
with this Project, CFN also allowed the PFIs to determine their own spread for on-
lending, completely liberalizing the interest rate charged to final beneficiaries. In
previous second tier operations undertaken by CFN, the spread to be charged by the PFIs
had been capped.
12.   Productive Sectors. Project objectives of maintaining trade reform and
macroeconomic stabilization for 1993-1994, which included adjustment of real domestic
petroleum prices by 100 percent, elimination of subsidies, cutting of public expenditures
and increasing utility tariffs, were implemented as agreed. The objective of CFN selling
its equity holdings was achieved partially. CFN did sell majority of its equity holdings,
though as of August 31, 1998, CFN had remaining investments in 21 enterprises
amounting to US$ 2.3 million, of which $1.3 million was already in the process of
disinvestment.
13.   Private Sector Development Objectives. The Project was highly successful in
its objective of providing term financing to private enterprises. The IBRD loan was
disbursed two fiscal year earlier than estimated at time of appraisal and its US$75 million
line of credit reached 186 projects with average loan size of $460,000. Loan resources
were used almost exclusively for sub-loan financing as CFN's technical assistance
requirements were met through an on-going IDB operation. Over a three year period,
Loan 3609-EC financed 186 investments located in twelve of the twenty one provinces in
Ecuador. Enterprises which received financing under the loan are located mainly in the
coastal region, both in terms of number of loans (136) and percentage of amount
disbursed (73 percent). Seventy loans (26 percent of disbursements) were made to



5
enterprises located in the highlands; 3 loans to enterprises (1 percent) located in the
Galapagos and Eastern Provinces. These resources were on-lent at an average term of
seven years, which was a significant improvement over the prevailing term credit in the
market. (Tables 1 -10 in Appendix B provide details of the sub-loans financed through
Loan 3609 (Tables 1-5) and the Multi-sectoral Program (Tables 6-10)). The financing
from the Bank and other co-financiera allowed CFN to increase its second tier
disbursements through its Multi-Sectoral line of credit almost thirty two fold, from
US$14 million in 1992 to US$436 million in 1997.
14.   The IBRD $75 million line of credit represented only 14.4 percent of all resources
under CFN's Multi-sectoral Credit Program, which included CFN's own resources, PFI
and beneficiaries contributions. This Multi-Sectoral Credit Program supported an overall
program of US $925 million through 1,416 operations as the demand for loan resources
was much higher than expected in some years of project implementation. During the
three year utilization period of the Loan 3609-EC, (1993 - 1995), the Multi-Sectoral
Program was able to leverage US$146 million from the 22 banks and 4 private
financieras that participated., an additional US$ 245 million from the beneficiary
enterprises. Additional financing of US$ 230 million was also mobilized from a regional
private entity - CAF and CFN's own resources contributed an additional US$ 128
million. The additional leverage achieved in terms of the mobilization of significantly
larger complementary private resources is a very positive feature of the project's
implementation and its catalytic role in providing term financing for private investments.
15.   This medium term financing allowed for significant growth of Ecuador's export
producing enterprises. 58 percent of disbursements were rmade to export enterprises
producing products such as tropical fruits and flowers and aquaculture, sectors which
were the main engines of Ecuador's rapid increase in exports from US$ 3 billion in 1992
to US$ 5.3 billion in 1997. Based on a sample of 10 percent of the enterprises financed
through the Loan, CFN recalculated the ex-post financial and economic rates of return for
a sample of twenty subprojects (a sample of 10 percent of the enterprises financed),
which were well in line with its ex-ante estimates, with somewhat higher economic
returns. The somewhat higher rates of economic rates of return over the financial rates
may be explained by their large export content and intensive use of labor and domestic
raw materials during a time period in which the domestic currency was depreciating.
16.   Though this line of credit was successful in mobilizing PFI participation, it has
been less successful in encouraging financial institutions to extend term credit from their
own financial resources. Term credit in Ecuador remains very limited and of duration
typically less than four years. The Project was also less successful in changing the
evaluation techniques of PFIs which still continue to approve loans more on the basis of
the guarantees provided by the investors rather than the merits of the proposed
investment. Although this did not affected the utilization of the line of credit, it has raised
some uncertainty whether the selected projects had the highest economic rates of return or
the highest financial collateral. Nevertheless, the Project did induce PFIs to establish
special units to deal with evaluation and monitoring of their longer term projects, and to
invest resources in the special training of these staff.



6
17.   The Project was also instrumental in adopting and enacting environmental
mitigation plans for private investments. Every sub-project to be financed under the Loan
was required to have an environmental evaluation, with environmental mitigation
measures required for projects with potential severe negative environmental impact.
CFN's environmental unit, established as a condition of loan effectiveness, prepared a
comprehensive environmental manual, provided training to PFIs in environmental
matters and managed a database of environmental consultants. Environmental impact
mitigation measures applied within the program reduced pollution in the following areas:
air pollution, by controlling industrial boilers with cyclons, gas washers and other filters;
water pollution: by means of residual water treatment (sediments, coagulation and
filtration systems) and recycling treated water; soil pollution: by controlling chemicals
and fertilizers applications, sanitary landfills for solid waste and treated water recycling;
flora andfauna deterioration: controlling mangrove deforestation for shrimp farming;
respect of Health and Labor Security laws. by means of permanent control of diseases
produced by pesticides and adequate provision of equipment to avoid workers damage.
18.   Sample supervision to monitor the compliance of environmental impact
mitigation plans, showed that, out of 58 subprojects financed with WB and IDB loans, 43
subprojects (74 percent of the sample) complied with environmental measures; 10
subprojects (17 percent) fulfilled all the requirements after the first supervision visit
during which CFN made specific request for changes; and 5 subprojects (9 percent)
needed more than one visit to meet all the environmental requirements.
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   Overall Demand for Loan Resources. The demand for the resources available
under the Project was much stronger than anticipated at appraisal. In 1993, at the
beginning of Project implementation, the Ecuadorian financial sector had a high level of
liquidity, measured by the net position of the legal reserves of the banking system. This
induced private banks and financial institutions to use their own resources instead of
using CFN's funds. However, in 1994, because the favorable economic conditions led to
a substantial increase in the demand for investment loan demand, this situation changed
and commercial banks made significant use of the resources provided under the loan,
with 69 percent of the loan being disbursed during this year. CFN responded to the
higher than anticipated demand for credit by obtaining additional resources from the
Corporation Andina de Fomento (CAF) and the IDB.
20.   Demand for Specific Types of Investments. In 1995, the Government's success
in reducing inflation resulted in very high real interest rates which caused a recession in
the productive sector, undermining overall demand for investment loans. However, as a
result of the export oriented policies adopted in that period, enterprises producing export
commodities continued to enjoy a favorable investment climate. Additionally, CFN was
making dollar denominated loans to enterprises with revenues in dollars to cover its own
foreign exchange risks. Both these factors led to a concentration of loan disbursements to
the export sector, which was not an unwelcome development. As mentioned earlier, 58
percent of the World Bank loan and 54 percent of the total disbursements of the Multi-



7
Sectoral Program funds during 1993-97 were disbursed mainly to finance agricultural
exports, acquaculture and fishing.
21.   CFN Legal Framework. One of the continuing issues of the incomplete
liquidation of CFN's first tier portfolio was due to the legal framework of CFN which did
not allow it to place these loans below face value, even though many of them were in
arrears. This legal constraint was outside CFN's control, though within the
Government's control.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The sustainability of CFN role as a second-tier institution is likely because of its
legal structure, a sound financial position and ability to attract new sources of finance.
The new CFN law, enacted in September 1997, reiterates its role as a full-fledge second-
tier financial institution. Nevertheless, the law also authorizes CFN to carry out first-tier
operations in specific areas approved by the Monetary Board upon request of CFN's
Board of Directors (Article 15 (j) 2). Despite this exception to second tier lending, it is
highly likely that CFN will maintain its position as the pr:imary second tier lender. The
financial position of CFN is also sound with total assets increased almost fivefold from
US$ 183 million to US$883 million; with equity rising from US$110 million to US$ 190
million. In addition its capital adequacy ratio of almost 22 percent and its long-term debt
to equity of only 2.66 confirm that the institution's financial position is sound. Return
on average assets and on average equity have also increased very significantly in recent
years. CFN has also been effective in mobilizing resources from various sources and this
will ensure its future growth and sustainability. As Project Cost table shows, (Tables 8A
and 8B) the actual financing mobilized for the Private Sector Development Program has
been 3.6 times higher than expected at appraisal of the project. Additional funds to
finance activities under the project were provided mainly by CAF (US$230 million), and
by CFN from its own resources obtained from the sale of its equity investments, earnings
and local market mobilization.
23.   Regarding other policy reforms supported by the Project, a reversion of the
Central Bank to an intermediation function is unlikely. In fact, Government policy in that
respect is to go deepen this reform by assigning to the Central Bank the role of a federal
reserve bank. The continuation of interest rate liberalization is also likely, because the
effective functioning of the Ecuadorian financial system is now entirely based on market
determined interest rates and the Government is committed to maintaining it. The
liberalization policy applied has been an important factor in the development of the
financial system and in the proper allocation of investment resources. The maintenance
of the trade liberalization is also highly likely, as new steps have been taken by the
Government to deepen the reforms by signing regional and bilateral trade agreements and
customs union. Furthermore, as a vote of confidence, the World Bank has recently
approved an International Trade and Integration Project to accelerate Ecuador's export
capacity.



8
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Project Preparation. Overall, project identification and preparation was
satisfactory, though the conversion of this Project from its initial conceptualization as an
adjustment operation to a line of credit operation led to some design complexity. At the
identification stage, the Project was conceived as an adjustment operation, and all issues
affecting the development of the financial and private sectors were included as part of the
policy conditionality. The appraisal process however got spread out over a long period of
time due to a change in Government - the project was first appraised in December 1990
and post-appraised in September 1991. Though overall appraisal was satisfactory, the
Project continued to include conditionality on policy reforms over which CFN had little
control. Nor did it sufficiently distinguish between the immediate project objectives and
longer term sectoral objectives. Appraisal also did not establish specific performance
indicators which were to be used to monitor project implementation.
25.   Project Supervision. Project supervision by the Bank, however, was sporadic
and deficient in some key areas. Between Board approval in mid-1993 and 1997, four
supervision missions took place, with thin staffing, though this was compensated for by
recruiting a field office staff with knowledge and familiarity with the sector, who kept in
close contact with the implementing agency. As a result, the task manager was able to
monitor the majority of the implementation issues through telephone and follow-up by
the field office. On the issue of first tier loans, the Bank first attempted to resolve this
issue informally by asking CFN not to submit any disbursement requests to the Bank
until this issue was resolved. This approach was successful in stopping new first tier
loans being made from CFN, but did not stop the refinancing of first-tier loans, given
CFN's legal and political constraints cited above. In retrospect, a formal notice of
suspension may have provided the Bank with more leverage and resolved the issue more
cleanly, it may, however, have risked client relations and disrupted on-going private
investment projects. Nevertheless, supervision could have been more pro-active,
monitoring ex-post reviews of subproject samples and the repayment rates of sub-loans,
and providing such information as formal input to Bank and CFN management.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26. Performance of the Government. The Government kept to its commitment of
maintaining or taking the measures that had been enacted or agreed upon prior to the
effectiveness of the loan. The macroeconomic stabilization program was implemented
and there was no reversion in the financial sector reform nor in the trade policy reform.
Therefore, the performance of the Government was satisfactory.
27.   Performance of CFN. Overall, CFN performance can be considered marginally
satisfactory, with some issues that remained outstanding even at the end of the Project.
As agreed under the terms of the loan, CFN carried out a profound structural
reorganization with significant staff reductions. It also continued to develop and



9
strengthen its capabilities to perform its second-tier functions, developing a sound
financial position, trained staff and institutional capacity to manage its portfolio and to
monitor the credit worthiness of PFIs. However, areas in which further improvements are
still needed include supervision of the sub-projects together with the intermediary banks,
in order to monitor their performance. In addition, CFN also needs to completely
liquidate its first tier portfolio and equity investments.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTrCOME
28.   Overall project outcome is rated Marginally Satisfactory. The Project was
successful in supporting the successful transformation of CFN into a primarily second tier
institution, and accomplishing a significant and impressive transformation of its purpose,
organizational structure and institutional capacity. In the area of private sector
development, it also achieved its objectives of supporting the growth of private industry,
especially in the export sectors, in an era of policy reform and structural adjustment. This
track-record, and the institutional development of CFN, has also enabled it to mobilize
additional funding resources that will maintain this pipeline of term financing. Policy
reforms, whose maintenance was a conditionality to this Project, were also sustained.
However, the major shortcomings of the Project was less than complete compliance on
the full elimination of first-tier lending activities and the continued legal provision for
such activities in the CFN law. Another shortcoming of the project is that term financing
in Ecuador still remains limited, as PFIs have been reluctait to commit their own funds
for long term financing. This, however, is a long term goal and subject to a complex set
of macroeconomic and sectoral measures and was not a specific objective of this Project.
Nevertheless, Project activities contributed to this goal by demonstrating the value and
success of such term financing.
29.   Looking into the future, CFN's medium-term operating program covers the
following areas: (i) the promotion of the existing credit mechanisms through its several
programs such as the Multi-sectoral Program, Foreign Trade Financing Facility,
FOPINAR, Reactivation of Productive Sectors etc.; (ii) the development of new types of
products (financial and non-financial); and (iii) playing an active role in the development
of the capital market. Its long-term strategic objectives include: expanding the capital
base of the institution through opening the capital, improviing the operating systems and
procedures, strengthening the use of its human resources, End reaching managerial
autonomy. Considering CFN's sound financial position and its capable management and
staff, its operational plan for the medium to long term seemns adequate and feasible. To
finance its operations, CFN intends to obtain resources in domestic and foreign financial
markets and request financial assistance from multilateral organizations.



10
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
* CFN's mandate and ability to provide not just discounting operations but a broad
spectrum of financial services to its client banks significantly increased its
effectiveness as a second tier institution.
* The staffing and competence of its Treasury and Financial departments are key to the
success of a second tier institution such as CFN.
*  In order to measure adequately the development impact of financial credit programs,
it is necessary to build in monitoring and evaluation as part of the project design.
* Though lines of credit operations can provide much needed, but temporary, term
financing to domestic industry, the development of a market for medium term
financing is a much more complex task.
* It is important to distinguish conceptually between the pre-conditions for a project's
success with its objectives. In this case, pre-conditions were labeled as project
objectives though there were no project activities that could have effectively
accomplished these objectives.
- In order to overcome the reluctance of financial institutions and private enterprises to
implement measures to mitigate the environmental impact of productive investments,
it is essential to establish adequate regulations and enforcement mechanisms and to
provide special resources to finance the mitigation investments.



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial  Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                            D a        o             o
Sector policies                  3                  D              El
Financial objectives           Dx         a          o
Institutional development    0  x                   ii]
Physical objectives                                                lxi
Poverty reduction               o         [a        o              x
Gender issues                   oi anI
Other social objectives                   lx0
Environmental objectives       lxi
Public sector management
Private sector development      mx i 
B. Project Sustainability           Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
mx              I o
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                         l                   Ii
Preparation assistance                                 lx                  LI
Appraisal                                              lxi                 LI
Supervision                         l1I                                    lx]
D. Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Somewhat
Unsatisfactory
Preparation                         E                   3                  0
Implementation                      E                                      L M
Covenant compliance                                                        li [El
Operation                           nx]                                    L
Highly      Marginally                     Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome
L                           L              LI



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                  Year of
Credit Title                     Purpose                Approval   Status
Preceding operations:
2672-EC/Industrial Finance   Hybrid credit line                 10/1986   Closed
Project
2673-EC/Third SSE Project   Expanding Fopinar's institutional capabilities   04/1986   Closed
2897-EC/Financial Sector    Sector Adjustment Loan              06/1990   Closed
3162-EC/Fourth SSE Project  Enhance contribution of SSE to industrial  02/1990   Closed
development
Following operations:
International Trade &    Accelerate Ecuador's export capacity    06/98    Approve
Integration                                                               d
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned   T     Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                           08/07/90          08/07/90
Preparation                              09/09/90          09/09/90
Appraisal                                12/12/90          12/12/90
Negotiations                             01/27/92          01/27/92
Board Presentation                       06/01/93          06/01/93
Signing                                 Not available      02/07/93
Effectiveness                            Not available     02/15/94
Project Completion                                         07/31/96
Loan Closing                             06/01/99          03/31/98



13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate             10.0    38.0   63.0   71.0    74.0   75.0
Actual                         12.7    24.3   74.5   75.0    75.0   75.0
Actualas%ofEstimate            127     63      118    105      101    100
(US$ millions)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                       Actual Date Accomplished
1.- Key Operational Indicators
- Loan Disbursements                        Each Year (Table 4)
2.- Key CFN Indicators
- CFN Selected Financial Data              Each Year (Appendix Table 12)
- CFN Selected Financial and Operational Ratios  Each Year (Appendix Table 13)
3.- Reporting Requirements
- CFN Operations                           Reported semiannually
- Advance reports on TA Activities         Not available (financed by the IDB)
- CFN's Audited Financial Statements       Reported annually
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(See Table 5)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
None



14
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual (US$M)
Local  Foreign            Local   Foreign
Item              Costs   Costs   Total   Costs    Costs    Total
Credit Component               49.8    198.5   248.3   517.8    403.5    921.3
Training & Technical Assistance    ---  2.7      2.7      0.5      2.7      3.2
Inspection and Vigilance        ---     1.0      1.0               1.0      1.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    49.8    202.2   252.0                   407.2    925.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Source          Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
PFIs                   12.4      --        12.4     145.6            145.6
Sub-borrowers          37.4               37.4     244.7              244.7
IBRD                             75.0     75.0               75.0      75.0
IDB                             102.2    102.2               102.2    102.2
CAF 25                  ---      25.0     25.0               25.0     25.0
CFN                                                 128.0             128.0
CAF 40, I y 1I                                               205.0   205.0
TOTAL                49.8    202.2    252.0    518.3    407.2    925.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
| Ex-post economic rates of return were calculated by CFN for a 10 percent sample
of sub-projects and were found to be slightly higher than their ex-ante appraisal.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Ecuador
Private Sector Development Loan
Agrement Section Covenant Present Original Revised    Description of Covecnant                        Conments
Type    status Fulfillnme Fulfillment
nt Date Date
Loan     2.03    5      C                         Closing date 6/11/99. Discussions with implemcnting agency to Complied with.
c.ange Closing Date to March 31. 1998
Lon      3.02 (a) 3     C                         CFN to lend to fancial intermediaries that satisfy the  Complied with
eligibility critcria enumerated in Schedulc 7.
Lon      3.03    3      C                         Sublomns and lea  must be in accordance with conditions   Complied
specified in schedule 7.
Loan     3.05    3      C                         Procumt and consultant services to be as per Schedule 4   Procurenent rules followed.
of LA.
Loan     3.07    5      C                         Implementation of institutional development plan one year    Complied with.
after effective date
Loan     3.13    10     CP                        Within one year of effective date, the Govt. must show  Equity portfolio largely declined with $2.3  cr
pogre  n implementing the Equity Valuation and Sales  million remaining.
Pbnw
Loan     3.14    10     CP                        Within one year of the effective date, the Govt. must show  Complied with CFN now placing
progress in implementing the Resource Mobilization Plan.  bonds on the local market.
Loan     3.15(a) 3      C                         For all Sucre-dnominated (excluding dollar indexed) loans   CFN uses market detemined interest rates to
CFN must (a) charge a variable rate equal to a freely market- determine its on-lending rates.
determined reference rate published by the CB and approved
by the Bank; (ii) give loan recipients the option to capitalize
interest accrued on the loan such that debt service payments,
in real terms, can remain constant



Loan     3.15(b) 3      C                         For a}l dollar-dominated loans or Sucre loans indexed to  Complied with.
dollars, the Govt. must charge a variable rate equal to interest
rate specified in 2.05 (LIBOR + Bank spread) + a negotiated
spread. The interest rate must be adusted every six months.
-.van    4.02(a) I      C                         Govt to: (1) have the Special Account audited every fiscal    Complied with
year by independent auditors acceptable to Bank; (ii) provide
the Bank the auditor's report no later than six months after
the end of the fiscal year; and (iii) give the Bank any other
records requested relating to the Special Account.
Loan     4.02(b) I      C                         GovL to: (O) maintain records relating the intermediary loans; Complied.
(ii) enable the Bank to exanine records of the Financial
Intermediaries involved; and (iii) ensure that the auditor
review and verifies the validity of these reports.
Loan     4.04    2      C                          Govt must maintain capital level no less than 10% of risk    CFN's financial statements examined.
assets.
Loan     5.01    3      CP                         The Bank will amend, suspend or terminate the loan if the    CFN continues to refinance its existing first tier
Govt. has: (1) engaged in first-tier borrowing, (ii) charged non- operations. As the loan is fully disbursed, there is
market determined interest rates on intermediaries; (iii)  little scope for suspending disbursements at the
amended, repeated or waived the Monetary Law, (iv) prevent moment. CFN's new management sent to the Bank
the exchange rate from being market determined; and (v)  management a letter outlining its intentions to
changed the status of its ID loans.                 liquidate its first tier portfolio by December 31,
1997.
Loan     6.01(c) 3      C                          Borrower must enter into three Participation Agreement with  Complied with.
three different Financial Intermediaries. The Agreement must
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Loan     6.01(d) 3      C                          CFN must prepare and adopt the Credit Regulation Manual.  Complied with.
Loan     Sch. 2  5      C                         The Govt must implement its Institutional Development Plan  CFN has a new IDP with a different organizational
and provide taining and technical assistance to Financial    structure. Training to PFIs ongoing.
lntermediaries involved in the project
Loanl   $si8     1      C                         For each payment made from the Special Account the GovL  Complied  th
.5(4)                                    must finish documentation verifying tbat the payment wa   ple wi
made for eligible expendites.
I Financial ntermdiaies must meet capital and reserve  CRF is fuxther strengthening its systems or
71) la                                 requireme2s spcifimd by the Monetsy Board.           monitodng PFIs with a new and enhanced stem of
qualitative and quantitative analysis.



Loan     Sch.7(1 2      C                          Financial Intermediaries must meet loss provision  |Compliance on an ongoing basis.
) lb                                     requirements specified by the Monetary Board.
Loan     Sch.   I       C                          Financial Intermediaries have its fiancial statements  On-going compliance.
7(0) lc                                  reviewed by extemal auditors.
oIn      Si      5      CFi .al intediaries must have adequate staff to ey out Complied. P5 acept projet risk, an 1, .ve
7(1) Id                                  the Loan.                                           incentive to Endertake a  orough appraisal.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                          Intermediay Loans must be wholly disbursed in dollars or    Complied.
7(1) 2a                                  Sucres indexed to dollars. The amorti7ation schedule,
principal repayments and interest payments must be in dollars
or indexed to dollars. The interest rates contain a spread
above the referenced rate in 3.15(b) and is adjusted every six
_months.
Loan     Sch.   2       C                          Intermediary Loans must contain an interest rate as referenced Interest rates are set as set out in IA
7(1) 2c                                  in Section 3.15(b) and will be adjusted every six months.
Loan     Sch.   3        C                         The principal of Intermediary Loans must be repaid  CFN has the ability to deduct the due amount from
7(1) 2d                                  irrespective of the status of Subloans. If a subloan or any  the PFIs account with the Central Bank.
portion thereof is repaid, transferred or sold before maturity,
then the financial intermediary must repay that portion to the
Govt
Loan     SchL    3      C                          If the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan are used to makc a    CFN has not undertaken transactions with leasing
7(1) 2e                                  Lease then the principal of the loan must be repaid  companies.
irrespective of the status of rental payments. Lease
agreements must include a maturity and periodicity equal to
the lease term. If the lease is repaid, transfenred. sold or
buying option is exercised before maturity then the financial
intermediary must repay that portion of the loan.
Loan     Sch.   5       C                          Participation agreements must obligate Financial    Complied with.
7(1) 3a                                  Intermediaries to have adequate staffing.
Loan     Sch.   5       C                          Financial Intermediaries must comply with the reserve and    Complied.
7(l) 3b                                  loss provisions specified in Sch. 7(1) l&lb.
Loan     Sch.   I       C                          Financial Intermediaries must gencrate a postive return on    As reported by CFN. Individual financial statements
7(1) 3d              __I_I  _            equity.                                              of each PFI not reviewed during missions.
Loan     Sch.   4       C                          Financial Intermediaries must finance at least six percent of  CFN now discounts 100% of loans made by PFIs.
7(l) 3e                                  the Subloan from proceeds other than those generated from
______  the Loan. The matuity of this portion can be shorter than the



rest of the subloan but must be at least six months.
Loan     Sch.   4       NYD                       Financial Intermediaries must finance at least six percent of  CFN has not undertaken any leasing operations.
7(1) 3f                                  equipment leased to an Investment Enterprise from non -Loan
________    ______  ______  ________ proceeds.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                         Financial Intermediaries must comply with the Credit  Complied with.
7(1) 3g                                  Regulation Manual.
Loan    S&h.   3        C                         No goods, works or services for an Investment Project can be  None.
7(1) 4a                                  finance out of the proceeds of the Loan and Intermediary Loan
unless the Subloan or Lease for the project is approved by the
Bank. Expenditures can not be made earlier than 6 months
before the Bank approval.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                         No goods, works or services for an Investment Project can be  None.
7(1) 4b                                  financed from of the the proceeds of the Loan and
Intermediary Loan unless the Subloan or Lease is from a Free-
Limit Subloan or Free-Limit Lease for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawls from the Loan Account Free-Limit
Subloan (or Leases) is the first or subsequent subloan (or
Lease) after the Financial Intermediary has obtain loan
proceeds for three previous Subjoins (or Leases).
Expenditures can not be make earlier than 6 months before
Bank approval.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                          To qualify for subloan or lease, an Investment Enterprise must Complied with.
7(11) 1                                  be appraised by a Financial Intermediary and meet the terms
of the Credit Regulation and Environmental Manual. The
Investment Project must have a financial rate of return of at
least 12 percent.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                         Each subloan must be at least US$85,000 and no one   Complied with.
7(11) 2                                  Investment Enterprise may at one time have more than USS5
million in aggregate subloans.
Loan     Sch.   2       C                         The interest rate on the subloan was to be at least the  None.
7(11) 3                                  referenced rate in Sec. 3.15(b) and must be adjusted every six
months.
Loan     Sch.   3       C                         Subloans to finance goods or works must have a maturity of I- None.
7(11)6                                   12 years with a maximum of grace period of 3 years. Subloans
for other purposes must have a maturity of 1-3 years with a
I maximum grace period of six months. Leases must have a    I



_____ _                         _______  term of 1-12 years with no grace period for rental payments.
Loan      Sch.    3        C                             Goods financed from the subloan must be in accordance of    None.
7(11)                                         Sch. 4 and used exclusively in the Investment Project.
7b
Loan      Sch.    4        C                             Investment Enterprises must finance at least 15% of project   Enterprises financed more than 15% of project costs
7(11)                                         costs from non-borrowed funds.                             with their own resources.
7e
Loan      Sch.    3        C                             CFN must approve all subloans that exceed USS1 million    None.
7(11) 9                                       equivalent and are not Free-Limit Loans. Subloans that
exceed US$2 million the funncial intermediary must also
include a project feasibilty study.
Loan      Sch.    3        NYD                           CFN must approve all leases that exceed USS million      No leasing operations.
7(11)                                         equivalent and are not Free-Limit Leases. Leases that exceed
11                                            USS2 million the fuiancial intermediary must also include a
project feasibility study.
Covenantypes:
1. =  Accountaudits                                   a. =  i  ganoupeople
2. =  Fiancial performance/revenue gena-aion from     9. - Monitoring. review, and repowting
beneficiarics                                  10. - Projet imnplemenation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow an utilization ofpject finds              11. = Sedora or cross-ectoral budgury or other resource
4. =  Countpst fuating                                      allocation
S. -  Managemet aspeft of the pnqed or executing     12.     Sectoald or oss-sectorl policy/ regutatoryruwwutiond
agency                                               action
6. -  Envionmnta covean                              13. - Other
7. - Invohunary resettlement
8. Presut Statu:
C - covenat complied with
CD - complied with after delay
CP -  compld  with p iay
NC - not eamplied with



- 20 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                  Planned                          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks US$    Weeks                                 US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                    59.6                 140.7
Appraisal-Board                                                              19.4                 57.1
Negotiations through Board                                                  16.2                  50.8
Approval
Supervision                                                                40.2                  117.0
Completion                                                                   4.1                   12.9
TOTAL                                                                    139.5                378.5
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                        Specialized           Implemen       Develop-
Stage   Month/       of          Days in         Staff Skills           -tation         ment           Types of
Project,   Year    Persons           Field         Represented             Status       Objectives       Problems
Identificati    08/90    2             10             Economist/Financial
on                                                    Analyst
Preparation    09/90     2            5               Economist/Financial
/Appraisal                                            Analyst
Supervision   03/94      1            11              Financial Analyst           S              S
01/95      1            7              Financial Analyst            S              5
11/95     1            5               Financial Analyst            S             S
06/97     3             10             Financial Analyst            S              S
Economist
Completion    06/98      1            .7              Financial Analyst



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION AND COMMENTS TO THE ICR



- 21 -                  Unofficial translation of
Borrowqer's Contribution
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL - QUITO, ECUADOR
ECUADOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT' PROJECT
LOAN 3609-EC.
PART II: Project Review from the Perspective of the Debtor
1. LOAN EXPERIENCE EVALUATION.
(a) Objectives.
GENERAL: Project objective: Private Sector Development in Ecuador through the implementation of the
Guarantor's program, achieving institutional strengthening of the borrower, of the financial intermediaries
and providing equipment (through commercial leasing) and medium and long term financing for
investment projects.
The project consisted of the following stages:
(a) Investment project execution.
(b) Institutional strengthening of the borrower and of the financial intermedLiaries (IFI), through the
preparation and execution of the institutional development plan of the borrower and the granting of
technical assistance to the IFI, for project evaluation and control, as investment projects.
The WB 3709 resources were mainly channeled to the acquiring of fixed caLpital for private productive
activities and activities which are considered generators of value added for the national economy.
Agroexport activities, such as banana, shrimp and flowers, were financed specially. These activities
generate jobs which is supported by the Ecuadorian Govemment in its social development and foreign
exchange development plan.
With respect to institutional strengthening, the resources permitted the transfer of medium and long term
financing, in similar conditions, to the IFIs and, thus to the ultimate beneficiaries (BF), which impacted
on the availability of sufficient resources to maintain institutional liquidity.
With respect to IFI strengthening, multiple training activities were carried out in the different cities in
which CFN has regional offices. These activities consisted of workshops oni financial management and
project financial evaluation models.
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
(a) Established objectives:
1. Improve financial sector efficiency through:
i) Reduction of State competition with the private banks by means of the restructuring of the CFN
as a second tier bank and the elimination of the financial intermediacy of the Central Bank.
ii) Support the liberalization of interest rates and the reduction on obligatory investments on
banks.
iii) Put into effect plans for the capitalization of interest on term credits to reduce the impact on
high inflation.



- 22 -
iv) Allow a wider spectrum of financial services through commercial banks and finance
institutions.
2. Improve the efficiency of the productive sector through:
i) The support of the liberalization of commerce through the reduction of tariffs and the
simplification of borrower procedures.
ii) Improvement of the climate and ambit for private investment. Sale of CFN's share capital
investments.
3. Permitting the private sector to benefit from an improved economic environment through the timely
provision of investment term financing.
b) Objectives: degree of completion.
Ii) CFN fiunctioned as a first tier Bank until June 30,1994, date when it terminated operating
under this modality.
Iii) The rates of interest were set in accordance with market forces from March, 1986 and
important reforms were continued with the objective to avoid subsides through the rate of interest. In this
manner, in the negotiation of conditions on the margins to be applied in discount operations, the value was
freed so that the intermediary financial institution could be set by mutual agreement with the ultimate
beneficiary the constant margin of the operation. The situation was formalized through the issuance of
Regulations by the Monetary Authority.
I .iii) The feasibility of capitalizing interest was analyzed, but there wasn't any interest shown by
the financial institutions. At present, CFN has, as part of its amortization operations, the total grace
period ( no payment of capital and interest) which, to some degree replaces interest capitalization and
fulfills the goal of offering capital and interest financing for periods in excess of 6 months which may
reach up to 5 years, for activities with slow capital return.
I.iv) As part of its operational restructuring, CFN allocates part of its resources to the financing of
trust and commercial leasing, which offers alternatives to the private financial system for the financing of
productive activities.
2.i) It is not within the power of the CFN the fulfillment of this objective. It belongs to the
economic policy of the Government in power.
2.ii) One of the important results obtained by the CFN in 1997 is the disinvestment process,
initiated by Board of Directors Resolution of March 25, 1997. The evaluation of companies and their
corresponding sales promotion abroad and locally were achieved through the contracting of a specialized
consulting firm.
Likewise, beginning on December I Ithe shares of the companies were offered, selling those of Cemento
Nacional (1.98% of the capital stock of the company), equivalent to 25,187.6 million sucres; and those of
Cementos Selva Alegre (47.46% of the capital stock of the company, 22.18% of which belong to CFN),
which amounts to 114,101.2 million sucres, of which 53,324.3 million sucres belong to the Corporation.
With respect to shareholder participation, the CFN, to December 31, 1997, is a shareholder in 25
companies with 85,785.6 million sucres, to be divested throughout 1998.



- 23 -
3.i) The average term granted with the resources of the Multisectoral Program is 5 years, showing
that the use of these terms demonstrates a tendency to long term productive investment.
b) Program Design.
The design of the project contributed to the fulfillment of the majority of the objectives. The liberalization
of the financial framework also supported the performance of CFN.
Nevertheless, the design implied a thorough evaluation process in the CFN, excessive paper work to
request discounts and the impossibility of disbursement prior to the rendering of justification of funds
already disbursed.
Although this situation hindered CFN from beign competitive and flexible, it is important to underscore
that at the beginning of operations as a second tier bank a greater control of the IFIs was necessary; but
should diminish over time to give mobility to the process and dynamism, to the transfer of resources.
Beginning June, 1997 the procedures for approval and disbursement of operations were greatly made more
flexible.
On the other hand, the rate of interest has been individualized for each client - IFI - on the basis of its
quantification of risk in this manner, reward efficiency and institutional solidity, reduce the risk to the
CFN and augment its earning power, that is rationalizing the use of its resources.
c) UTILIZATION OF LOAN BIRD 3609-EC
Amount: US$ 75 million
Date of signature: June 2, 1993.
The loan from the World Bank formed part of a Multisectoral Global Credit Program, initially composed
of the following resources:
BID             US$ 100
CAF                  25
World Bank           75
Local Contribution    25
CAF - Additional  US$ 100
The utilization of the loan initiated on March 28, 1994 and ended on July 31, 1996, practically in one-half
the time provided for in the loan contract, this situation was due principally to the demand created by the
Program, so that by December 31, 1996 US$ 379.6 had been disbursed on account of the Multisectoral
Global Credit Program, using the external resources from the World Bank in the amount of US$ 75
million, from CAF US$ 24.8 million and US$ 92.1 million, from IDB US$ 79.5 million and US$ 6.7
million from the undisbursed portion of loan CAF US$ 40 million. NVith the purpose of not interrupting
the Program, CFN disbursed US$ 101.5 million from its own resources.
II Evaluation of the performance of the CFN, IFIs and Beneficiaries.
Il.i CFN
a) Its institutional organization was secured and strengthened as a second tier bank.
b) CFN was given leverage in the negotiation of resources with the financial organisms for it's
medium and long term credit programs.



- 24 -
c) The names of the officials involved in medium and long term financial system for the
productive sector were given publicity.
II.ii The IFIs
a) Gained the capacity to evaluate medium and long term projects.
b) Acquired consciousness that long term financing is profitable, so much so that they became
concerned with finding direct sources of financing.
c) The smaller IFI's needed strengthening to comply with the medium and long term financing
procedures of the CFN.
II.iii CFN, IFI, BENEFICIARIES.
Awareness was created of the importance of environmental issues.
II.iv Principle lessons to gained of CFN performance.
I) The project would have had a more accelerated development if it were not for the fact that the
IFI's were able to obtain other resources directly.
2) The conditions imposed to get resources from the CFN loan were harsher than those imposed
by the IFI with its own resources and the latter contracted directly, making more difficult for CFN to place
its resources.
3) A change of government in 1997, created political and economic instability, reducing credit
demand during the period. At the present time the levels of credit have recuperated.
4) The economic reforms proposed by the Interim Government were not approved by the
Congress, forcing the Fiscal Authorities to take some regressive measures.
III Evaluation of World Bank and Cofinanciers Performance.
Throughout the utilization of the loan permanent support was given by World Bank official in Washington,
enabling complete fulfillment of the terms of the loan contract.
The IDB's and CAF's acceptance of the modification in the justification of disbursements, making it
unnecessary to submit invoices to them supporting investments, the use of the foreign credit was made
more flexible. The World Bank, notwithstanding, did not accept the modification, making the utilization
of Loan BIRF 3609 more costly and complicated.
Finally, the delay in the approval of CFN's new law momentarily interrupted the utilization of the balance
of the IDB resources, forcing CFN to contract foreign short term bridge loans until the IDB grants a
dispensation of the condition of submitting to the National Congress of CFN's new law. The IDB later
allowed a change in the percentage of the loan which should have been disbursed once the CFN law
approved., this facilitated and permitted the continuation of the program.
IV.Principal Economic and Social Results obtained from the use of the Multisectoral Program
Resources.
Evolution of participation of the Multisectoral Program resources in the periods April-December 1993,
January-December 1994 and January-June 1995, periods in which the larger part of the World Bank



- 25 -
resources were applied to subloans. The principal results from the use of the Multisectoral Program
resources from the start of operations in April of 1993, is as follows..
During the April/93-June/95 period a total amount of 528,707.2 million sucres, corresponding to 645
credits, averaging 820 million sucres, were approved. Of the credits alpproved 68.0% were resources
destined to new investment projects and the 32.0% remaining for the continuation of existing projects.
In the following schedule the Multisectoral financing from the April of 1993 is broken down as to the
objective of the credit and by year:
Multisectoral Credit - By Allocation
(Millions of Sucres)
1993          1994 *          1995             TOTAL
Fixed Assets             110,844.0      231,869.6       100,886.9         443,600.5
Working Capital          33,434.8        12,732.8        3,625.5          49,793.1
Liability Restructuring                  34,345.8         847.8           35,193.6
Source:        CFN Statistics
* Period Covered:     April-December 1993, January-December 1994, and January-December 1995.
Multisectoral Program - By Credit Objective
PROGRAMA MULTISECTORIAL
PFM  ESMO OEL cam o
1UIM. OE P'A5W (&IV
CWN.k IC Up". (9.00
In the chart above, it can be seen that the allocation of the program resources were destined principally for
fixed assets, considering as such civil and infrastructure works, machbinery, equipment and agricultural
development. Of these categories, investments in machinery and equipment used more than 75% of the
resources.



- 26 -
Approvals by categories of activity.
There follows a schedule showing the approved Multisectoral program resource distribution during the
period April-1993 to June 19 95 , by activity, in accordance with the uniform international industrial
classification.
Approvals by Type of Activity
(Millions of Sucres)
Type of Activity     1993*        1994*        1995*         Total    |
Agriculture           36,539.0    91,661.8      56,039.4     184,440.2      34.9%
Food                 41,654.8     42,536.1       4,623.2      88,814.1       16.8%
Fishing               13,168.9    40,372.7      29,141.8      76,683.4       14.5%
Other                20,173.1     17,131.7      10,169.3      47,474.1       9.0%
Tourism               15,794.7    19,624.7       6,758.2      44,207.6       8.4%
Plastics              6,980.2     23,202.8                    30,183.0       5.7%
Paper                 7,540.3     14,287.0       2,598.4      24,425.7       4.6%
Lumber                            19,722.5                    19,722.5       3.7%
Metals                2,428.6     10,328.0                    12,756.6       2.4%
Total                144,279.6    279,067.3    105,360.3     528,707.2     100.0%
Source:       CFN Statistics "Financial Activity Statistical Evaluation."
* Period:     April-December 1993; January-December 1994; and January-June 1995.
It is deduced from analyzing the foregoing schedule that the agricultural sector used the mayor volume of
program resources (34.9%), operations which were destined to finance cultivation of roses, banana, mango,
sugarcane, african palm etc.
The foodstuff sector (16.8%) and fishing (14.5%), principally directed to the financing of shrimp and tuna
fishing follow. These three activities represent 62% of the approved Program resources.
The remaining 35% of approved resources, were distributed among 20 economic activities in accordance
with CIIU, reflecting the wide variety of activities financed by the program.
Multisectoral Credit by Geographical Area.
There follows a distribution of the operations in accordance with the province in which the investment
projects were situated during the period April 1993-June 1995.



- 27 -
Multisectoral Program
Approvals per Geographic Investmenit Area
(Millions of Sucres)
Province        1993 *         1994 *          1995*          Total           %
Guayas               85,163.2      167,299.6       58,825.7       311,288.5       53.9%
Pichincha            32,345.2       57,340.8       19,963.5       109,669.5       20.7%
Los Rios              8,420.0       10,217.4        9,890.0        28,527.4        5.4%
El Oro                4,811.0       11,714.0        2,865.8        19,390.8        3.7%
Esmeraldas            3,254.3       12,665.2        2,640.7        18,560.2        3.5%
Manabi                2,900.0        7,387.7        7,037.6        17,325.3        3.3%
Others                7,385.9       12,442.6        4,117.0        23,945.5        4.5%
Total               144,279.6      279,067.3      105,360.3       528,707.2      100.0%
Source:       CFN Statistics "Financial Activity Statistical Evaluation."
* Period:     April-December 1993; January-December 1994; January-June 1995.
Multisectoral Program Geographic Area of Investment
PROGRAMA MULTISECTORIAL
ALA G08URAA DE NQUMN
ava
a.-.
ORY- -
I        II *0      32 X       e m    w
!~~~~~                  ~ 33 aa_& 
In the foregoing schedule and graphic it is shown that projects located in Guayas Province used 58.9% of
the approved resources. The projects of the Pichincha Province absorbed 20.7% of program resources.
The 75% of the resources were allocated to investments in the Province of the Coast, leaving the balance
for the Provinces of the Sierra, Oriente and the Insular regions. Nevertheless, the difference is mainly due
to the Province of Pichincha's cultivation of roses.
This comes from the fact that the larger part of the resources are allocated to agricultural activities, such as
the growing of the banana, palm, palmito, mango. In addition, fishing is represented mainly by shrimp
cultivation and tuna fishing. All of the activities required high levels of investment and the majority are
found on the Coast. Pichincha Province is mainly represented by the cultivation of roses.
Evolution of interest rates in the Multisectoral scheme.



- 28 -
With respect to the changes experienced in the interest rates for the Multisectoral Program resources, it is
important to stress that these credits have been granted, in the majority, in dollars. This situation has
permnitted the rate to maintain stability through time.
Thus, it is that in April of 1993 the resources were disbursed at the rate of 11.8% to the final beneficiary
and to June of 1995, the rate is pegged at around 15.0%. It is seen that the variation in two years is of
approximately 3 percentage points, which represents annual average increments of the dollar exchange
which vary between 10.0% and 12.0%.
Notwithstanding that the rate of exchange varied between 12% in 1994 and 29% in 1995, due to
circumstances occurring in those years, the sucre generating investments promise earning power above
35% covering financial charges and sucre devaluation.
Approvals by the financial intermediaries.
Up to June 30, 1995, a total of 42 financial institutions have signed participation agreements with CFN to
use Multisectoral Program resources, of which 27 were banks and 15 financial companies.
Of the total approved amount to June of 1995 nearly 82% of the program resources was directed through
19 banks and the remaining 18% with financial companies. Among the banks and financial institutions,
Filanbanco, Banco del Pacifico, Continental, Guayaquil, Pichinchas, Prestamos, Finagro and Cofiel, must
be pointed out among others.
Comparison between direct credit and second tier.
A comparative schedule of the effects of the application of direct credits (Fogen, Fopex), Programa Fopinar
and Multisectoral Program, taking into consideration the period Jan - Dec 1993 and 1994, follows:
Period                        Jan-Dec 1993                               Jan-Dec 1994
(Millions of Sucres)                       (Millions of Sucres)
Result        Direct Credit    FOPINAR         Multisec *      Direct     FOPINAR       Multisec
Credit
Total Investment         129,519.5       43,331.6      126,142.6    139,224.0     104,586.0    263,260.0
No. Jobs Generated          1,168          3,240           1,834         826         0.698       5,799.0
Wages & Salaries         34,783.1            nd         41,199.2       15,468          nd       64,479.0
Nat. Raw Materials       36,891.8             nd        10,142.0       24,424          nd       99,520,0
Foreign Exch             49,606.3            nd         86,059.0     75,798.0          nd      352,197.0
Generated
Value Added              118,580.8       84,311.3       76,989.5     95,685.0     167,489.0    165,668.0
Source: CFN Statistics "Financial Activity Statistical Evaluation."
* Period:        April-December 1993.
As is demonstrated in the foregoing schedule with relation to jobs generated during the year 1993, the
mechanics of second tier (Multisectoral and FOPINAR) generate a larger amount of jobs, considering
lesser investment amounts in the of FOPINAR and in the Multisectoral cases, though there were similar
amounts of investment the generation ofjobs is larger with the second tier mechanism, in 57%.
The proportion of wages and salaries with respect to the number ofjobs generated reflect the specialization
of the workers in the direct credit due to the fact that the beneficiaries are large industries. In both cases, it
reduces from 1993 to 1994, that is, it responds to a greater hiring of unskilled laborers which received
lower salaries.



- 29 -
With respect to the utilization of domestic raw material, the direct credit shows a lessening of the use of
domestic raw material with relation to total investment, from 28% to 17%, but this is not true with respect
to the Multisectoral credit which increases from 8% to 37%, reflecting a financial trend to activities
needing more foreign inputs, materials and raw material.
The generation of foreign exchange is significant in the Multisectoral imechanism since the financing was
required mainly for exports. With respect to added value, it is shown that the program of Fopinar
generates the greater added value with respect to total investment, in the order of 194% and 160% in 1993
and 1994, respectively.
The Multisectoral mechanism remains constant at 60% with relation to total investment and direct credit
lessens from 91% to 68%.
With this comparison the incidence of each one of the mechanisms in two typical years, the first (1993),
year of the transformation of CFN into a second tier bank and the second (1994) typical year of operation
of the three mechanisms, can be seen.
Up to June, 1995 the Mulltisectoral mechanism experiences investments in the amount of approximately
80,962 million sucres, generating 1,740 jobs and an added value of approximately 60,000 million sucres
with a foreign exchange generation of 52,194 million sucres. As of that date, the Fopinar mechanism had
investments of 366,000 million sucres, generating 2,056 new jobs and value added of approximately
62,025 million sucres.
On a global basis, direct credit generated in 30 years, 34,740 jobs, Fopinar, in 14 years, 84,844 jobs and
Multisectoral, in 2.2 years, 933373 jobs, In conclusion, direct averaged 1,157 jobs per year, Fopinar, 6060
jobs and Multisectoral 4, 260 jobs.
Fopinar has an average term of 5 years, with one year grace period which is similar to the Multisectoral
credit, though with a tendency to exceed the 6 years on the average and with a longer grace period.
During project development and implementation certain aspects need to be mentioned:
-The exchange rate forced the early cancellation of 18% of the operations since the final beneficiaries were
able to get better rates in the private financial system.
- The IFIs do not accept high risk projects: the entrepreneurial aspect is not the one that gets the financing
but rather that which offers guaranty and a qualified final beneficiary.
-There was detected in the monitoring of discount operations that the majority of the IFIs do not require
basic information, such as updated financial statements, supervisory follow-ups, insurance policies. This
has hindered getting, in concrete terms, the results of the financing.
It must be emphasized, nevertheless, that the resources were invested as requested, with a minimal degree
of deviation.
- The domestic situation did not effect a sufficient climate of confidence in the evolution of the economy,
due primarily to a change in Government and, in second place, a wvar, which provoked a pause in the
demand for investment credit and; thus, high levels of liquidity in the Finance System.
This is the reason why the IFis demanded principally resources for financing exports which reduced risk
while generating foreign exchange for repayments and obtained medium and long term resources at rates
comparatively more convenient, at a time when the IFIs had liquidity for short to medium term.



- 30 -
This is to say that the financing did not meet the needs for fixed assets for the domestic market since the
later was in a depressed state, without demand, high interest rates and rapid devaluation of the local
currency.
The procedures and rules were implemented to regulate operations, periodic updating made them adequate
for the requirements of the IFIs and permitted access of a larger number of final beneficiaries to the
financing.
These resources have permitted the start of the CFN on the road to second tier banking and strengthened
the role of development banking within the framework of the globalization of the economy and the
aperture of markets, within a system of competition and business.
The second tier mechanism appears within the framework of the redefinition of the role of the State and the
diminution of its size.
In this spirit, CFN has come to consider the IFI's as risk clients and, therefore, designed a system of
qualification to minimize risks to the Institution.



-31-
CFN    CORPORACJON  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO- ECUADOF7
ECUADOR: PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO DEL SECTOR PRIVADO - PRESTAMO
BIRF 3609-EC
PARTE 11: Revisi6n del Proyecto desde la Perspectiva de/ Deudor
L    Evaluaci6n de la experiencia del pr6stamo
a)   Objetivos
GENERAL
Objetivo del proyecto: Desarrollo del sector privado en el Ecuador a!
implementar el programa del Garante, logrando el fortalecimiento
institucional del prestatario y de los intermediarios financieros y
proporcionando equipos (a traves del arrendamiento mercantil) y
financiamiento a mediano y largo plazo para proyectos de inversi6n.
El proyecto consisti6 de las siguientes partes:
a)   Ejecuci6n de proyectos de .,'version.
b)   Fortalecimiento institucional del prestatario y de las intermediarias
financieras (IFI), via preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del plan de desarrollo
institucional del prestatario y la provisi6n de entrenamiento y asistencia
t6cnica a las IFI con relaci6n a la evaluaci6n y control de proyectos tales
como proyectos de inversi6n.
Los recursos provenientes del BIRF 3609 fueron canalizados principalmente para
la formaci6n de capital fjo de las actividades productivas privadas y en actividades
consideradas generadoras de valor agregado joara la economia nacional. Se
financiaron especialmente actividades de agroexportaci6n como son banano,
camar6n y flores. Estas actividades son generadoras de puestos de trabajo /o que
apoya a! Estado Ecuatoriano en su plan de desarrollo social y fomento a la
generaci6n de divisas a! pais.
En relaci6n al fortalecimiento institucional, estos recursos permitieron contar con
financiamiento de mediano y largo plazo para ser trasladado en similares
condiciones a las IFI y por /o tanto a los beneficiarios finales (BF), Jo que repercutio
en disponer de recursos suficientes para mantener la liquidez institucional.



-32-
CAN   CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
En to referente al fortalecimiento de las IFI, se realizaron multiples eventos de
capacitaci6n en las distintas ciudades donde la CFN mantiene oficinas regionales.
Estos eventos consistieron en talleres sobre manejo de los modelos financieros y
evaluaci6n financiera de proyectos. Adicionalmente, el area de cr6dito de /a
Instituci6n realiz6 continuamente asistencia tecnica a las IFI en los aspectos
indicados.
OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS
(a)   Objetivos establecidos:
1.   Mejorar /a eficiencia del sector financiero a trav6s de:
i)    Reducir la competencia estatal con los bancos privados a trav6s de
/a reestructuraci6n de la CFN en un banco de segundo piso y la
eliminaci6n del rol de intermediario financiero del Banco Central.
ii)   Apoyar la liberalizaci6n de las tasas de interes y la reduccion de las
inversiones forzosas de los bancos.
iii)  Introducir esquemas de capitalizaci6n de intereses para cr6ditos a
plazo para reducir el impacto de alta inflaci6n.
iv)   Permitir la provisi6n de un mayor espectro de servicios financieros a
traves de bancos comerciales y compafiias financieras.
2.   Mejorar /a eficiencia de los sectores productivos a trav6s de:
i)    Apoyar mayor liberalizaci6n del comercio a trav6s de la reducci6n de
tarifas (aranceles) y simplificar los procedimientos a los clientes.
ii)    Mejorar el clima y alcance para la inversi6n privada. Venta de las
inversiones en acciones de la CFN.
3.   Permitir al sector privado beneficiarse de un ambiente econ6mico mejorado,
a trav6s de la provisi6n oportuna de financiamiento a plazo para las
inversiones.



-33-
ICIV   CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUAOOrh
(b)   Objetivos; grado de cumplimiento:
1.i)  La CFN oper6 como banca de primer piso hasta el 30 de junio de
1994, finalizando la operatividad bajo esta modalidad. De igual
manera a partir de abril de 1993, la, CFN introdujo la modalidad de
banca de segundo piso en sus operaciones de mediana y gran
industria, ya que a partir de 1981 Jo habia venido realizando en la
pequena industria y artesania. El Banco Central del Ecuador redujo
operaciones al sistema financiero privado a partir de 1990.
1.ii)  Las tasas de inter6s fueron aplicadas de acuerdo al mercado a partir
de marzo de 1986 y se continuaron profundizando reformas para
evitar subsidios a traves de la tasa de inter6s. De igual manera, en
las condiciones de negociaci6n de los margenes por aplicarse en las
operaciones de redescuento, se liber6 dicho valor para que la
Instituci6n financiera intermediaria pueda fijar de mutuo
consentimiento con e/ beneficiario final el margen constante de la
operaci6n. Esta situaci6n fue normalizada mediante /a expedicion de
Regulaciones por parte de la Autoridad Monetaria.
l.iii)  Se analiz6 la factibilidad de aplicar capitalizaci6n de intereses, sin
embargo no existio interes por partie de las instituciones financieras.
Actualmente la CFN dispone como parte de la amortizaci6n de las
operaciones, el periodo de gracia total (no pago de capital e interes),
que de cierta manera sustituye a la capitalizaci6n de intereses y
cumple con el objetivo de ofrecer i7nanciamiento al capital e interes
durante periodos mayores a 6 meses y que pueden lIegar hasta los
5 anos, para aquellas actividades cuyo retomo del capital es dilatado.
liv)  La CFN, como parte de la reestructuraci6n operativa, destina parte
de sus recursos al financiamiento de fideicomisos y arrendamiento
mercantil, lo que ofrece al sistema financiero privado alternativas para
financiar las actividades productivas.
2i)   El cumplimiento de este objetivo no es del ambito de la CFN.
Corresponde a la politica economJca de la administraci6n de tumo.
2ii)   Uno de los resultados importantes alcanzados por Ia CFN en 1997 es
el proceso de desinversi6n, que se inici6 por resoluci6n del Directorio
del 25 de marzo de 1997. Se realiz6 la valoraci6n de 7 empresas y
la promoci6n correspondiente a nivel extemo y nacional para la venta



-34-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
de estas empresas, para lo cual se contrat6 los servicios de
consultoria especializada.
En tal sentido, a partir del 11 de diciembre se ofertaron las acciones
de las empresas, vendiendose las de Cemento Nacional (1,98% del
capital social de la empresa), equivalente a 25.187,6 millones de
sucres; y las de Cementos Selva Alegre (47,46% del capital social de
la empresa, 22,18% corresponden a la CFN), equivalentes a
114.101,2 millones de sucres, de los cuales a esta Corporacion le
correspondieron 53.324,3 millones de sucres.
En cuanto a la participaci6n accionaria, la CFN al 31 de diciembre de
1997 participa en 25 empresas con 85.785,6 millones de sucres, que
seran desinvertidos a lo largo de 1998.
3i)           Los promedios de plazo otorgados con recursos del Programa
Multisectorial, estan en 5 ar7os, lo que demuestra que /a aplicaci6n de
los mismos tiene una tendencia a las actividades de inversi6n
productivas de largo plazo.
b)            Disefio del Programa
El diseno del proyecto contribuy6 al cumplimiento de la mayoria de los
objetivos. Igualmente la liberalizaci6n del margen financiero apoy6 la
gesti6n de la CFN.
Sin embargo, el diser7o implicaba procedimientos minuciosos de
evaluaci6n en la CFN, documentaci6n excesiva para /a solicitud de
redescuentos, y la imposibilidad de desembolso previo a la
justificaci6n de los recursos entregados para el financiamiento.
Pese a que estas circunstancias empujaban a la CFN a no ser
competitiva y agil, es importante recalcar que durante el inicio de
opera ciones como banca de segundo piso era necesario un control
mayora las IFI, pero este debia ir paulatinamente disminuyendo en
el tiempo a fin de dar movilidad a los procesos y dinamia a la
transferencia de recursos.
A partir de junio 1997, se flexibilizaron en gran medida los procesos
de aprobaci6n y desembolso de operaciones.



-35-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADC'R
Por otra parte, /a tasa de- inter6s se ha individualizado para cada
c/iente - IFI - en funci6n a su calificaci6n de riesgo, para de esa
manera premiar (a eficiencia y solidez de las instituciones, disminuir
el riesgo  de la CFN e incrementar su rentabilidad, es decir
racionalizar el uso de sus recursos.
c)            UTILIZACION DEL PRESTAMO BIRF 3609 - EC
MONTO: US$ 75 MILLONES
Fecha de suscripci6n: Junio 2 de 1993
El credito del Banco Mundial form6 parte del Programa Global de
Credito Multisectorial, compuesto inicialmente por los siguientes
recursos:
BID             US$ 100
CAF                   25
BIRF                  75
Aporte Local          25
CAF - Adicional  US$ 100
La utilizaci6n del cr6dito se inici6 el 28 de marzo de 1994 y
concluy6 el 31 de julio de 1996, pr6cticamente en la mitad del
tiempo previsto en el contrato de pr6stamo, esta situaci6n se debio
principalmente a la demanda que tuvo el Programa. es asi que a
diciembre 31 de 1996 se desembols6 US$ 379.6 millones con
cargo a! Programa Global de Cr6dito Multisectorial, utilizando
recursos extemos del Banco Mundial por US$ 75 millones, de la
CAF US$ 24.8 millones y US$ 92.1 mi/lones, del BID 79.5 millones
y aplic6 US$ 6.7 mil/ones al sa/do del prestamo CAF US$ 40
millones. Con la finalidad de no interrumpir el Programa, la CFN
desembols6 con recursos propios US$ 101.5 mi/lones.
II.   Evaluaci6n del desempeflo de la CF'N, IFI, Beneficiarios Finales.
Ai  -La CFN:
a)   Se afianz6 y fortaleci6 su estructura institucional como banca de
segundo piso.



-36-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
b)   Apalanc6 a la CFN en la negociaci6n de recursos con otros
organismos de financiamiento, para sus programas de cr6dito a
mediano y largo plazo.
c)   Permitio irradiar la imagen de lideres en el sistema financiero para
el financiamiento a mediano y largo plazo a los sectores
productivos.
I1.ii LAS IFI:
a)   Adquirieron capacidad de evaluaci6n de proyectos de mediano y
largo plazo.
b)   Se conscientiz6 a las IFI de que es rentable el financiamiento a
largo plazo, tanto que se preocuparon de buscar fuentes directas
de financiamiento.
c)   Las IFI pequenias necesitaron fortalecerse para acceder a los
mecanismos flnancieros de la CFN a mediano y largo plazo.
il.iii CFN, IFI, BENEFICIARIOS
Se cre6 conciencia de la importancia de la variable ambiental.
Il.iv  Lecciones principales obtenidas del desemperio de la CFN
1)   El proyecto habria tenido un desarrollo mas acelerado de no
ser porque las IFI adquirieron capacidad de contrataci6n
directa de recursos.
2)   Los condicionamientos exigidos para el acceso a los
recursos del credito de la CFN, fueron mas duros que los
exigidos por la IFI con sus propios recursos y contratados
directamente, lo cual dificult6 la capacidad de la CFN para
colocar los fondos.
-3)   Existi6 un cambio de gobiemo en Febrero de 1997, lo que
1lev6 a una inestabilidad politica y econ6mica con la
reducci6n de la demanda de credito durante ese periodo.
Actualmente los niveles de cr6dito se han recuperado.



-37-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
4)   Las reformas econ6micas propuestas por el Gobierno
Interino no fueron aprobadas por el Congreso por lo que el
Fisco ha tenido que tomar algunas medida recesivas en el
pais.
Ill.    Evaluaci6n del desempenlo del Banco Mundial y Cofinanciadores
Durante la utilizacion del pr6stamo se obtuvo un apoyo permanente por parte de
los funcionarios del Banco Mundial en Washington, permitiendo un cabal
cumplimiento de to estipulado en el contra to de credito.
Con la aceptaci6n por parte del BID y la CAF del cambio en la justificacion de los
desembolsos, eliminando /a presentaci6n a dichas instituciones de las facturas
que respaldaban las inversiones realizadas, se agilit6 Ia utilizacion del cr6dito
extemo. Sin embargo, el Banco Mundial no acept6 la modificacion anterior,
haciendo operativamente mas costosa y complicada /a utilizacion del pr6stamo
BIRF 3609.
Finalmente, la demora en la aprobaci6n de la nueva ley de la CEN, interrumpi6
momentaneamente /a utilizacion del saldo final de los recursos del BID,
obligando a la CFN a contratar en el exterior crsditos puente a corto plazo hasta
que el BID otorge una dispensa al cumplimiento de Ia condici6n sobre el envio
at Congreso NAcional de la nueva Ley de la CFN. Posteriormente, el BID
permiti6 el cambio en el porcentaje del cr6dito que debi6 desembolsarse una vez
aprobada la Ley de la CFN, lo que facilit6 y di6 continuidad at programa.
V.   Principales Resultados Econ6micos y Sociales Derivados de la Aplicaci6n
de los Recursos del Programa Multisectorial.
Evoluci6n de la participaci6n de los recursos del Programa Multisectorial
durante los periodos abril-diciembre 1993, enero-diciembre 1994 y enero-
junlo de 1995, periodo en el cual fueron aplicados los subprestamos a la
mayoria de los recursos del Banco Mundial.
A continuaci6n se presentan los principales resultados de /a aplicaci6n de los
recursos del Programa Multisectorial a partir del inicio de operaciones realizado
en abril de 1993.
Durante el periodo abril/93-junio/95 se aprobaron operaciones de este
mecanismo por un monto total de 528. 707.2 millones de sucres, correspondiente



-38-
C1eNiI CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
a 645 operaciones aprobadas, con un monto promedio por operaci6n de 820
millones de sucres. De las operaciones aprobadas el 68.0% fueron recursos
dirigidos a nuevos proyectos de inversi6n y el restante 32.0% para proyectos de
ampliaci6n.
En el cuadro a continuaci6n se desglosa, de acuerdo al destino del credito y por
anio de operaci6n a partir de abril de 1993 el financiamiento Multisectorial:
Cr6dito Multisectorial - por destino
(Millones de sucres)
1993*     1994*       1995*       TOTAL
ACTIVOS FIJOS        110.844.0  231.869.6    100.886.9    443.600.5
CAPITAL DE TRABAJO    33.434.8   12.732.8     3.625.5      49.793.1
REESTRUCTURACION                34.345.8        847.8      35.193.6
DE PASIVOS                               .
Fuente            Estadisticas CFN
* El periodo es   Abril-dicl93, enero-dicl94 y enero-jun195.
PROGRAMA MULTISECTORAL
PFM Dm   OEL COaTO
On== OE P AUV (6.7._
CrAa. OE AMAa (A.4uV
-  iw (asI
En la ilustraci6n anterior se puede apreciar que el destino de los recursos del
programa se dirigieron a invertirprincipamente en activos fios, considerandose
como tales a las construcciones en obras civiles e infraestructura, maquinaria,
equipo y fomento agricola. De estos rubros las inversiones en maquinaria y



-39-
CORPORACION  FINANC/ERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOf?
equipo representaron mas del 75% de los recursos.
Aprobaciones por rama de actividad
A confinuaci6n se presenta un cuadro referente a la distribuci6n de los recursos
aprobados del Programa Multisectorial en el periodo abril -93/junio/95, por rama
de actividad de acuerdo a la clasificacion internacional industrial uniforme:
APROBACIONES POR RAMA DE ACTIVIDAD
(MiDlones de sucres)
RAMAS DE    1993'       1994'         1995'         TOTAL        %
ACTIVIDAD          I
AGRICOLA         36.539,0      91.861,8       56.039,4    184.440,2    34.99%
ALIMENTOS        41. 654,8     42.536,1       4.623,2      88.8 14.1   16.8%
PESCA             13.168,9     40.372,7       23.141,8     76.683,4    14,5%
OTROS            20.173,1      17.131,7      10.169,3      47.474,1     9,0%
TURISMO          15.794,7      19.624,7       8.788,2      44.207,6     8,4%
PLASTICOS         6.980,2      23.202,8                    30.183,0     5.7%
PAPEL             7.540,3      14.287,0        2.598,4     24.425,7     4,6%
MADERA                          19.72Z5                    1 19.722,5   3,7%
METALICOS         2.428,6       10.328,0                   12.756,6     2.4%
|T_oTAL            144.279,6     279.067,3     105.360,3    528.707,2    100,0%
Fuente                Estadisticas CFN, "Evaluaci6n Estadistica de la Actividad Financiera".
* El periodo es      Abrl-dicM93, enero-dic\94 y enero.junM95.
De analisis del cuadro anterior se desprende que la actividad agricola capt6 el
mayor volumen de recursos del programa (34.9%o), estas operaciones estuvieron
dirigidas principalmente a financiar cultivos de rosas, banano, mango, cafna de
azucar, palma africana, palmito, etc.
Luego se ubic6 el sector de alimentos (16.8%;) y pesca (14.5%) actividad que
estuvo  dirigida  al financiamiento  de  camaroneras  y  captura  de  atun
principalmente. Estas tres actividades representan el 62% de los recursos
aprobados del Programa.
El 35% restante, de los recursos aprobados, se distribuyen entre 20 ramas de
actividad econ6mica de acuerdo al CIIU, refle,jando la amplia variedad de



-40-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
actividades que el programa financia.
Cr6dito Multisectorial por area geografica
A continuaci6n se presenta la distribuci6n de las operaciones de acuerdo a la
provincia en la cual se encuentran localizados los proyectos de inversion, para
el periodo abril 1993-junio 1995.
APROBACIONES POR AREA GEOGRAFICA DE INVERSION
(M4flones de sucres)
PROVINCIA             1993'           1994'           1995-            TOTAL          %
GUAYAS                 85.163,2       167.299,6        58.825,7      311.288,5        58.9%
PICHINCHA              32.345,2        57.340,8        19.983,5      109.669.5        20.7%
LOS RIOS                8.420,0        10.217,4         9.890,0       28.527,4         5.4%
EL ORO                  4.811,0         11.714,0        2.865,8        19.390,8        3.7%
ESMERALDAS              3.254,3        12.665,2         2.640,7        18.560,2        3.5%
MANABI                  2.900,0         7.387,7         7.037,6        17.325,3        3,3%
OTROS                   7.385,9        12.442,6         4.117,0        23.945,5        4.5%
TOTAL        144.279,6       279.067,3       105.360,3      528.707,2       100,0%
Fuente                     Estadisticas CFN, 'Evaluaci6n Estadistica de la Actividad Financiera
* El periodo es           Abril-dicl93, enero-dicl94 y enero-junl95.
PROGRAMA MULTISECTORIAL
AREA GEOGRAECA DE NVIt9
"WS
ss
.*Y._
Hlustr.



-41-
CFAN               CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
En el cuadro y grcfica anterior se puede apreciar que los proyectos ubicados en
la provincia de el Guayas captan el 58.9% de los recursos aprobados. Los
proyectos de la provincia de Pichincha absorven el 20.7% de los recursos del
programa.
El 75% de los recursos colocados para inversi6n se ubican en las provincias de
la costa, dejando la diferencia para las provincias de la sierra, oriente y region
insular. Sin embargo, la diferencia esta representada principalmente por la
provincia de Pichincha.
Esta circunstancia esta explicada debido a que el mayor porcentaje de los
recursos se los destina a la actividades agricolas, como son el cultivo de banano,
palma, palmito, mango. Adicionalmente la actividad de pesca esta representada
principalmente por el cultivo del camar6n y captura de atun. Todas estas
actividades requieren de montos de inversi6n a,ltos y la mayoria se encuentran
en la region de la costa. La provincia de Pichincha esta representada
principalmente por /a actidad de cultivo de rosas.
Evoluci6n de la tasa de interes del mecanismo Multisectorial
En relaci6n a las modif7caciones presentadas por la tasa de inter6s para los
recursos provenientes del Programa Multisectorial, es importante indicar que
estos cr6ditos han sido otorgados en su mayoria en moneda d6lares. Esta
circunstancia ha permitido que la tasa mantenga cierta estabilidad en el tiempo.
Es asi como en abril de 1993 se entregaron recursos a una tasa de 11.8% al
beneficiario final y a junio de 1995 la tasa se ubica en alrededor del 15.0%.
Como podemos apreciar la variaci6n en dos afios es de aproximadamente 3
puntos porcentuales, lo que representa en promedio incrementos anuales de la
tasa d6lares que varian entre el 10.0% y el 12'.0%.
Sin embargo de que el tipo de cambio vari6 en un 12% en 1994 y en 29% en
1995, debido a los acontecimientos dados en ese a,no, las inversiones que
generan sucres proyectan rentabilidades superiores al 35% cubriendo la tasa
financiera y la devaluaci6n del sucre.



-42-
CFN    CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
Aprobaciones por intermediarias financieras
Hasta el 30 de junlo de 1995 han firmado el convenio de participaci6n con la
CFN para operar con los recursos del Programa Multisectorial un total de 42
instituciones financieras, distribuidas en 27 bancos y 15 companiias financieras.
Del monto total aprobado hasta junio de 1995 con recursos del programa,
aproximadamente el 82% fue redescontado a traves de 19 bancos y el 18%
restante con financieras. Entre los bancos y financieras mas destacados que han
operado estan el Filanbanco, Banco del Pacifico, Continental, Guayaquil,
Pichincha, Prestamos, Finagro y Cofiec entre otros.
Comparativo entre el credito directo y segundo piso.
A continuaci6n se presenta un cuadro comparativo de los efectos de la aplicaci6n
de los recursos de credito directo (Fogen, Fopex), Programa Fopinary Programa
Multisectorial, considerando los periodos enero/diciembre 1993 y 1994.
PERIODO               ENERO-DIC11993                       ENERO-DIC.11994
(M,illones de sucres)               (Millones de Sucres)
EFECTOS       CREDITO     FOPINAR    MULTISEC.*    CREDITO     FOPINAR    MULTSEC.
DIRECTO                              DIRECTO    __
Inversion total  129.519.5    43.331.6    126&142.6   139.224.0    104.596.0    263.260.0
No. empleos         1.168      3.240        1.834         826        6.698      5.799
generados                                                       .
Sueldosy          34.783.1       nd      41.199.2      15.488.0       nd      64.479.0
sat aros__                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __        _ _ _ _ _ _
M. prima          36.891.8       nd       10.142.0     24.424.0        nd     99.620.0
nacional
Generaci6n        49 606.3       nd      86.059.0      75.798.0       nd    352. 197.0
Valor agregado   11t&580.8    84.311.3   76.989.5      95.688.0    167.489.0    165668.0
FUENTE         Estadisticas CFN. Evaluaci6n Estadistica de la Actividad Financiera'
Perlodo Abtia-dic11993.
Del cuadcro anterior se puede observar que en relaci6n al empleo generado
durante el anJo de 1993, los mecanismos de segundo piso (Multisectorial y
Fopinar) generan mayor numero de fuentes de trabajo considerando menores



-43-
CFN    CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
montos de inversi6n en el caso de Fopinar y en el caso de Multisectorial sin
embargo de existir montos similares de inversi6n la generaci6n de empleo es
mayor para el mecanismo de segundo piso en un 57%.
La relaci6n de sueldos y salarios sobre el numero de empleo generados entre los
mecanismos de Credito Directo y Multisectorial refleja la especializaci6n de la
mano de obra en cr6dito directo debido a que las empresas beneficiarias de este
cr6dito son /a gran industria. En ambos casos ha relaci6n disminuye de 1993 a
1994, es decir responde a una mayor captaci6n de mano de obra que recibe
men ores salarios debido a la no especializaci6n de los puestos de trabajo.
En relaci6n a la capacidad de consumo de materia prima nacional, el cr6dito
dire cto refleja una disminuci6n del porcen taje de consumo de materia prima
nacional frente a la inversion total del 28% al 17%;, no asi el cr6dito Multisectorial
que se incrementa de un 8% al 37%, reflejando el financiamiento hacia
actividades de mayor necesidad de insumos, materiales y materia prima de
origen extemo.
La generaci6n de divisas es significativa en el mecanismo Multisectorial debido
a que el financiamiento ha sido requerido principalmente por actividades de
exportaci6n.
En relaci6n al valor agregado por mecanismo, se demuestra que el programa
Fopinar es el de mayor generaci6n de valor agregado frente a la inversi6n total
siendo del orden de 194% y 160% en 1993 y 1994 respectivamente.
El mecanismo Multisectorial se mantiene constante en un 60% frente a/ total de
la inversi6n y el cr6dito directo disminuye del 91% al 68%.
Esta comparaci6n permite visualizar la incidencia de cada uno de los
mecanismos en dos periodos tipo de operaci6n, el primero (1993) anlo de
transformaci6n de la CFN en banca de segundlo piso y el segundo (1994) afio
tipico de operaci6n de los tres mecanismos.
Hasta junio de 1995 el mecanismo Multisectorial present6 inversiones por un
monto aproximado de SI.80.962 millones, generando 1.740 puesto de trabajo,
un valor agregado aproximado de SI. 60.000 millones y generaci6n de divisas del
orden de^ los SI. 52.194 millones. Hasta /a misma fecha el mecanismo de Fopinar
present6 inversiones del orden de los SI. 36.000 millones, generando empleo en
un numero de 2.056 plazas nuevas de trabajo y con un valor agregado de



-44-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
aproximadamente SI. 62.025 millones.
De manera global el cr6dito directo gener6 durante 30 arlos 34.740 puestos de
trabajo, Fopinar en 14 anlos 84.844 plazas de trabajo y Multisectorial en 2.2 ar7os
9.373 puestos de labor. Podemos concluir que en promedio el cr6dito directo
gener6 1.157 nuevos puestos por afo, Fopinar 6.060 puestos y Multisectorial
4.260 puestos de trabajo.
Fopinar tiene un promedio de plazo de 5 arlos con un arlb de gracia, situaci6n
similar en el credito Multisectorial, aunque con una tendencia a superar /os 6
anlos en promedio y con mayor periodo de gracia.
Durante /a evoluci6n e implementaci6n del proyecto se observaron aspectos que
ameritan ser indicados a continuaci6n:
La tasa de inter6s provoc6 que un 18% de las operaciones fueran
canceladas anticipadamente, debido a que los beneficiarios finales
consegufan mejores tasas en el sistema financiero privado.
Las IFI no operan con proyectos de alto riesgo. No se financia la idea sino
de acuerdo a la garantia ofrecida y a la calificaci6n del beneficiario final.
En la supervisi6n de las operaciones de redescuento se detect6 que en
la mayorla. de las IFI no se dispone de la informaci6n basica como es los
estados financieros actualizados, seguimiento de supervisi6n, p6lizas de
seguro, lo que ha impedido obtener los efectos de financiamiento de
manera concreta.
Sin embargo es importante recalcar que los recursos fueron invertidos de
acuerdo a lo solicitado, existiendo un minimo porcentaje de desvio.
La situaci6n del pals no ayud6 a que exista la suficiente confianza en la
evoluci6n de la economia, debido primero al cambio de gobierno y en
segundo lugar al con flicto belico lo que provoc6 un estancamiento en la
demanda de cr6dito para la inversi6n y por lo tanto nivel altos de liquidez
del sistema rinanciero.
E5ta situaci6n explica la raz6n por /a cual las IFI demandaron
pnincipalmente recursos para el financiamiento de las actividades de
exportaci6n por cuanto disminuian el riesgo al generar divisas para el



-45-
CORPORACION  FINANCIERA  NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
repago y obtenian recursos a mediano y largo plazo a tasas
comparativamente mas convenientes. Mientras que las IFF disponian de
liquidez de corto a mediano plazo.
Es decir el financiamiento no atendi6 la formacion de capital fijo para el
mercado intemo, por cuanto 6ste se encontraba deprimido sin capacidad
de demanda con altas tasas de inter6s y r6pida desvalorizacion de la
moneda local.
Respecto a los procedimientos y normas operativas implementadas para
formalizar las operaciones, se realizaron peri6dicamente actualizaciones
para adecuarlas a las necesidades de las IFI y permitir el acceso a!
financiamiento a un mayor numero de beneficiarios finales.
Estos recursos permitieron iniciar a la CFN en el camino de una banca de
segundo piso y reforzar el concepto de banca de desarrollo contenida en
el marco de la globalizaci6n de la economia y apertura de mercados,
dentro de un sistema de competencia y negocio.
El mecanismo de segundo piso se plantea dentro del marco de la
redefinici6n del papel del Estado y la reaucci6n de su tamanio buscando
una mejor utilizaci6n de sus recursos.
De igual manera la CFN conceptualiz6 a las IFI como clientes de riesgo
y por lo tanto disen76 un sistema de calificaci6n, que permitiera minimizar
el riesgo de /a instituci6n.
PGA /HRA



-46-
APPENDIX B
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS



TABLE I
LOAN 3609-EC: PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY PROVINCE
(Thousand USDollars)
1993                        1994    |                   1995    1        I    I   TOTAL
AMOUNT                      AMOUNT                      AMOUNT                      AMOUNT
PROVINCE            No.  DISBURSED       %      No.  DISBURSED |%           No.  DISBURSED        %     No.  DISBURSED         %
, MBABURA                     0             0.0    0.0   2            405.0      0.7   1           350.0     1.7   3           755.0     0.
ICHINCHA                    2            954.2    21.7  15        10,638.7    19.3  14          4,579.0    22.6  31        16,172.0    20.3
TOOPAXI                     0              0.0     0.0   2           827.0     1.5  0              0.0     0.0  2             827.0     1.
UNGURAHUA                   0              0.0    0.0   7           1,628.0    3.0  1             180.0     0.9  8          1,808.0     2.3
LJA                          0              0.0    0.0   2            988.0     1.8 I 1           250.0      1.2   3         1,238.0     1.6I
1SU8TOTAL SIERRA              2           954.2    21.7l28l         14,486.51   26.31 17         5,359+0    26.51 47J        20,800.01  26.11
1ESMERALDAS                  3          1,210.0    27.5   4         5,025.0     9.1  3            814.0      4.0  10         7,049.0     8.8
MANA8I                       0              0.0    0.0   3            380.0     0.7   1            135.2    0.7   4            515.2     0.6
ISUBTOTAL~ ~   ~ CATJ ]I          3,4   ~ 7.  82 ,           3 ,97.    7.5 44 [                          .4 5  L. 581407.911                  
-OSRIOS                       1           500.0    11.4   6          3,850.0    7.0   5          1,560.0     7.7  12         5,910.0     74]
GUAYAS                        6          1,738.51   39.5  571       27,467.01   49.81 31        11,070.01   54.71 941        40.275 1    50 5
!ELORO                        0             0.0I    0.0  12 23,2500             59   4          1,155.0    5.7  16 |         4405.0      ssj
|BTACAT                       03485                738239207__                        44L       14_7___    .72.81 136|       58         _2.9j
BTOTAL ORIENTE               0              0.01    0.01 0              0.0     0.01  1            150.0    0.71  1       1   150.0      0.21
|N OALOEOS                              I 0  1i0.01    0.01 021          0.01 .0 I                   0.0     0.0771 00         150.0      09.
fSUBT.EAST&GALAPAGOS       |                0.01    0.01  2           700.01    1.31 0               0 .o    0.0   2           700.0|    0.9|
||OTAL GENERAL             112|         4,402.71  100.0| 112 |      55,158.41  100.01 62 |      20,242.31  100.01 186 |      79,806.5 1



Table 2
LOAN 3609-EC: PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY SECTOR
(Thousand USDollars)
[     |    1993                         1994                         1995            1          TOTAL   1
AMOUNT                      AMOUNT                       AMOUNT                       AMOUNT
SECTOR             NO.  DISBURSED [  %          NO.  DISBURSED        %      No.  DISBURSED        %      No.  DISBURSED        %
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION    6              1,355.0    30.8  51         18,671.0    33.8  33        1 0,838.2    53.5  90         30,865     38.7
FISHING                        1           493.5    11.2  24          11,204.0    20.3  1 0        3,403.6    16.8  35        15,101.00    18.9
MINERAL EXTRACTION             0             0.0      0.0   1           250.0      0.5   0             0.0     0.0   1             250      0.3
FOOD PRODUCTS                  4          2,054.2    46.7  10          6,312.0    11.4   6         1,606.4     7.9  20         9,972.50    12.5
TEXTILES                       0             0.0      0.0   0             0.0      0.0   1           320.0     1.6   1          320.00      0.4
CLOTHING                       0             0.0      0.0   3           525.0      1.0  0              0.0     0.0   3             525      0.7
WOOD AND PRODUCTS              0             0.0      0.0   2          9,196.0    16.7   1           135.0     0.7   3           9,331     11.7
PAPER AND PRODUCTS             0             0.0      0.0   1           295.0      0.5   1           494.0     2.4   2             789      1.0
CHEMICAL PRODUCTS              1           500.0    11.4   0              0.0      0.0   0             0.0     0.0   1             500      0.6
OTHER OIL DERIVATIVES          0             0.0      0.0   1           450.0      0.8   0             0.0     0.0   1             450      0.6             0
PLASTIC PRODUCTS               0             0.0      0.0  4            902.0      1.6   1           810.0     4.0   5           1,712      2.1
RESTAURANTS                    0             0.0      0.0   1           429.0      0.8  0              0.0     0.0   1             429      0.5
HOTELS                         0              0.0     0.0   0             0.0      0.0   1           750.0     3.7   1             750      0.9
LAND TRANSPORTATION            0             0.0      0.0   5          4,153.0     7.5   4         1,015.0     5.0   9           5,168      6.5
WATER TRANSPORTATION           0              0.0     0.0   1           175.0      0.3   0             0.0     0.0   1             175      0.2
COMUNICATION SERVICES          0              0.0     0.0   3           921.0      1.7   0             0.0     0.0   3             921      1.2
SERVICES TO IND. ENT.          0             0.0      0.0   0             0.0      0.0   2           280.0     1.4   2             280      0.4
MACHINERY LEASING              0             0.0      0.0   2           500.0      0.9   0             0.0     0.0   2             500      0.6
MEDICAL SERVICES               0             0.0      0.0   0             0.0      0.0   1           350.0     1.7   1             350      0.4
CINEMA                         0             0.0      0.0   1           188.0      0.3   0             0.0     0.0   1             188      0.2
INEMA & ENTERTAINEMT SER   0                 0.0      0.0   2           989.0     1.8   1           240.0      1.2   3           1,299      15.
TOTAL                         12          4,403.0   100.01 112 1     55,158.4|  100.01 62 J       20,242.31  100.0| 186 |    79,803.50   100.0



TABLE: 3
LOAN 3609-EC:PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY SIZE
(Thousand USDollars)
.  1     1993       _            1994                    1995                   TOTAL  [
| AMOUNT                  AMOUNT                  AMOUNT                  AMOUNT
LOAN SIZE          No. DISBURSED   %    No. DISBURSED   %    No. DISBURSED   %    No. DISBURSED
From o to 100.000           1          10.0   0.2  13           999    1.8  1           100    0.5  15         1,109    1.4
From 100.001 to 200.000     2         245.0   5.6  28       4,093.40    7.4  19       3,121   15.4  49         7,458    9.3
From 200.001 to 300.000     3         854.2  19.4  23         6,117   11.1  16        4,011   19.8  42        10,982   13.8
From 300.001 to 400.000     1         400.0   9.1  12         4,255    7.7  12        4,367   21.6  25         9,022   11.3
From 400.001 to 500.000     3        1,493.5  33.9  8         3,739    6.8  7         3,444   17.0  18      8,676.10   10.9
From 500.001 to 600.000     0           0.0   0.0  6          3,425    6.2  2         1,140    5.6  8          4,565    5.7
From 600.001 to 700.000     2        1,400.0  31.8  5         2,730    4.9  1           670    3.3  7          4,800     6
From 700.001 to 800.000     0           0.0   0.0  3        2,297.30    4.2  2        1,480    7.3  5       3,777.20    4.7
From 800.001 to 900.000     0           0.0   0.0  1            860    1.6  1           810    4.0  2          1,670    2.1
From 900.001 to 1000.000    0           0.0   0.0  4          3,909   7.1  0              0    0.0  4          3,909    4.9
From 1000.001 to 2000.000   0           0.0   0.0  6          8,250   15.0  1          1,100    5.4  7         9,350   11.7
From 2000.001 to 3000.000   0           0.b0    0.0  2        5,290    9.6  0             0    0.0  2          5,290    6.6
From 3000.001 to 4000.000   0           0.0   0.0  2          9,196   16.7  0             0    0.0  2          9,196   11.5
From 4000.001 to 5000.000   0           0.00        0             0    0.0  0             0    0.0  0             0      0
TOTALI 121        4,403.01 100.0 1121   55,158.50|100.0]62  | 20,242.30| 00.0171861   79,803.50   1001



TABLE 4
LOAN 3609-EC:PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
(Thousand USDollars)
1993                         1994                       1995                       TOTAL
AMOUNT                       AMOUNT                     AMOUNT                      AMOUNT
INTERMEDIARY              No.   DISBURSED    %         No.   DISBURSED    %        NO.  DISBURSED    %         NO.  DISBURSED    %
DNCOELPACIFICO                    0              0.0   0.0   19           8,224.0   14.9   3            824.0   4.1  22           9,048.0   11.3
ILANBANCO                          4           1,893.5  43.0   19           6,921.4   12.5   1           320.0   1.6  24           9,135.0   11.4
NCODELPROGRESO                    1            500.0   11.4    2           1,609.0   2.9   5          2,100.0   10.4   8          4,209.0    5.3
NCODELPICHINCHA                   0              0.0   0.0    5           9,908.3  18.0  1.00           200.0   1.0   6          10,108.3   12.7
NCOAMAZONAS                       0              0.0   0.0    2           1,210.0    2.2   2            480.0   2.4   4           1,690.0    2.1
NCOBOLIVARIANO                    0              0.0   0.0    6            1,825.0    3.3   1           670.0   3.3   7           2,495.0    3.1
AJADECREDITOAGRICOLAGANAD          1            254.2   5.8    1             175.0    0.3  4.00          894.0   4.4   6           1,322.8    1.7
NC0CONSOLIDADO                    1            700.0   15.9    2            500.0    0.9   0              0.0   0.0   3           1,200.0    1.
NCOCONTINENTAL                    0              0.0   0.0    6            4,965.0    9.0   2           370.0   1.8   8           5,335.0    6.7
ULTIBANCOBG                        0              0.0   0.0    3            1,625.0    4.6   3           909.2    1.9   6          2,534.2    3.2 |
NCO DEMACHALASA.                  0              0.0   0.0    9            2,550.0   4.6   2            390.0   1.9  11           2,940.0    3.7           C0
NCODELTUNGURAHUASA                0              0.0   0.0    4            3,100.0    5.6 12.00       3,845.0   19.0   1          6,945.0    8.7
NCOCOFIEC                         0              0.0   0.0    3            1,573.0    2.9   0             0.0   0.0   3           1,573.0    2.0
CUFINSA                            0              0.0   0.0    2             668.0    1.2   0              0.0   0.0   2             668.0    0.8
INAGRO,8ANCODELAGRO                0              0.0   0.0    4            3,000.0   5.4   4           1,240.0   6.1   8          4,240.0    5.3
NCO FINEC                         0              0.0   0.0    4             300.0    0.5   5          2,256.0   11.1   9          2,556.0    3.2
OMODITICORP.                       3            445.0  10.1    7            1,950.0    3.5   0             0.0    0.0  10          2,395.0    3.0
ILASA                              1            110.0   2.5    2             327.4    0,6   0              0.0   0.0   3            437.3    0.
NCODECREDITOS.A                   1            500.0  11.4    2             428.4    0.8   0              0.0   0.0   3            928.3    1.2
NCODELAUSTROS.A                   0              0.0   0.0    0               C.0   0.0   2             390.0    1.9   2           390.0    0.5
NCOINTERNACIONALS.A               0              0.0   0.0    1             450.0    0.8   0              0.0    0.0   1           450.0    0.6
NCOLAPREVISORA                    0              0.0   0.0    3            2,127.2    3.9   3         1,230.0   6.1   6           3,357.2    4.2
NCODELOCCIDENTESA                 0              0.0   0.0    1             300.0    0.5   2          1,000.0    4.9   3          1,300.0    1.6
ONFIANZA CIA. FINANCIERA           0              0.0   0.0    2             560.0    1.0   6          1,270.0    6.3   8          1,830.0    2.3
NCODEPRESTAMOS                    0              0.0   0.0    3             862.2    1.6   3          1,720.0    8.5   6          2.582.2    3.2
NCODECOMERCIOEXTERIOR             0              0.0   0.0    0               0.0    0.0   1            135.2   0.7   1            135.2    0.2
TOTAL      12        4,403.0  100.0  112         55,158.5  100.0  62        20,242.3  100.0  186        79,803.   100.0



TABLE: 5
LOAN 3609-EC:PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY TENOR
(Thousa nd USDollars)
-   -  |  |    1993           1      1    1994                          1995                        TOTAL
AMOUNT                     | AlJOUNT                       AMOUNT                       AMOUNT
LOAN TENOR IN YEARS        PJo.   DISBURS ED      %       No.   DISBURSED       %      No.  DISBURSED        %      No.  DISBURSED  %_         |
UP TO 1 YEAR                    0              0.0      0.0   0              0.0      0.0   0             0.0      0.0  0.0             0.0     0.0
MORE THAN 1 YEARl1O 2           0              0.0      0.40   2           145.0      0.3   1           320.0      1.6  3.0           465.0     0.6
MORE THAN 2 YEARS TO 3          2           4-10.0      9.3  12           3,510.0     6.4   2           508.3      2.5  16.0        4,428.3     5.5
MORE THAN 3 YEARS TO 4          0              0.0      0. 0   2           660.0      1.2   1           350.0      1.7  3.0         1,010.0     1.3
MORE THAN 4 YEARS TO 5          1           300.0       6.8  21           5,526.4    10.0  14          4,308.2    21.3  36.0       10,135.0    12.7
MORE THAN 5 YEARS TO 6          1           1 35.0      3.1  17           8,966.2    16.3  14          4,873.0    24.1  32.0       13,974.0    17.5
MORE THAN 6 YEARS TO 7          4          1,7-48.0    39..7  40         18,695.0    33.9  14          4,716.0    23.3  58.0       25,158.4    31.5
MORE THAN7 YEARS TO 8           2          1,000.0    22_,   5            1,737.0     3.1  13          4,232.2    20.9  20.0        6,969.2     8.7
MORE THAN 8 YEARS TO 9          0              0.0      0 0   1             221.0     0.4   0              0.0     0.0  1.0           221.0     0.3
MORE THAN 9 YEARS TO 10         2            810.0    18-4  11           15,196.3    27.6   3            935.0     4.6  16.0       16,941.3    21.2
MORE THAN 10 YEARS              0              0.0      0 0   1             502.0     0.9   0              0.0     0.0  1.0           502.0     0.6
TOTAL1  12  1         4,4030    100.0  112 1       55,158.51   100.01  621     20,242.301  100.01 186 1    79,803.501    1001



TABLE:6 
PGCM: LOAN DISBURSEMAENTS BY PROVINCE
(Thousand tI SDollars)
1993             1199.4                               j     1995                         1996                         1997                        TOTAL
CE             ~~~~~~AMOUNT                    AMOU*'4T                      AMOUNr                t. DAMOUNT                           AMOUNT                       AMOUNT
PROVINC               No.  DISEURSED         %          o. ISIBURUED           J   o    DISBURSE-D       %       o     ISBURSED    %1    No.   DISBURSED           %      No.   DISBURSED       %
,ARCHI                          0               0.0     00 00.0                       0.0   0                0.0     0.0   4          897.20      06 11,700.0    1.6   5                        2,697.2     a.
FABABURA                        0               0.0     0.0   3             755.0      0.7   1            350.0      0.3   5         1,749.00     1.1   2           1,800.0    1.7  11          4,654.0     0.
)ICHINCHA                       15          10,686.0   19.9  47          22, 334.1    21.4  161        38,733.3    28.7  113        35,304.10    22.8  45         24,376.1   23.3  381        131,483.2   23.
OCTOPAXI                        030 4i.4. 0.0    0.0 4                    1270.0       1.2   9          1,1.        109 2979.40                   0.6  il          4.222.4     4.0  26         21.213.0     38
'UN~GURAHUA                     0               0.0    (2.0   8           1,.808.O     1.7   3            32-4.0    0.21 3           1,567.00     1.0   1            200.0    0.2  15           3,899.0     0.
;F,IIMBORAZO                    0               0.0    (3.0   0               0.0     0.0   0               (2.0    0.0   4           446.201    0.31 0  10.0    0.0   4                          446.2     0.1
kUAY                            2            850.0     1 .6   3           1.038.0     1.0   2            449.0    0.    13,565.001    2.31 3  1638.01   0.61 21                                6,537.0    1.2
.OJA                            0               0.0    O'.0   0               0.0     0.0   0               00.0      .0 382.401    0.11   130.                                03   4             382.41   0.1
___BTOTAL SIERRA              1 17 1        11,536.01   21.41 65_ 1       27,205.01   26.11 -1761       54,__ 7_ 11   40.1 15     44,590.001 25.81 641             33,23411   31.  4871       171,211A4  1. I
:SAMERALDAS                      4           1,677.5    3..1   9           5,717.0     55 8              1,838.1      1A4  1           130.0      0.1   2           1,170.0    1.1  24          10,532.2     1.,
~4N8I                            2           1,575.0     2-9   9            -788.4     0.8  23           5,413.4      4.0~ 16        12,053.00    7.8   7           7,273.0    7.0  57          27,102.3j4.9
.OS_RIOS                         -15-        6,770.0   i2- 6j  7           4,1 70.0    4.0  17           6,940.0      5,11  5         3,981.00    2.6   2            570.0    0.5  46           22,430.2j4.I
IGUAYAS                          72         29,692.0    55. 2  120        60,2P57.0    57.7 208         58,170.0    43,01 244        89,330.00    57.7  97         56,902.0   54.4  741        294,350.2    5.
EL ORO                            0               0.0    0.04  1 8          5,555.01    5.31  15I         7,967.41    5.91 13         3,62         2     95,420.51   5.2, 655                   22,509.01  4.1J
ISUSTOTAL COAST                  93 J        39,714.11   734 '163 [       76,4.87.01    7.1  2711T   ]    0,32..O1   5941279 1    i 9,059.30    70.41127 1         71,335 1J I 8i 2  933'  1Z379192410
kApo                 o  I           ~0.0     0(2K)  0  100 0                .0 1 IX            150.0      0,1  0   IIII        00 ]II    1I3IJ            60011  01112  1             210.0II
___OR_ C     _NCHIPE                I        1,000.0     ul~   0               0.  0.0 1 j,9j0,0                     0.1  5            1431       0.1101               0.0]    0.016  114. 
FUB-TOTAL ORIENTE             II              i,000.0[    i.s   0              o- .of    0.0 1   J         i50.01    0.11  5  [         144.301    0.1 1               G 0.0]    0.11  a  J      1,354.3     0.~
IGALAPAGOS                    11                         2ii~ i   1         7cx0.0[ 0Z jZ 71  L0             IZFI6 [001    0.71   0  11  0]                                      1        I                 0.
jSBlTEAST & GALAPAGO)S       2i..           i,560.0     2.    2  1O.0                 0.71 jJI   j ,01Z             0.    4   1                            J          o.oJ    0.13 E1. I Z1     3,4 o1     0.
11   TOTAL GEN~ERALI 1131    53,810.01Ii0i.0iI2301    ~0~4,39 1.4[ ~100   -81 15160    0.1431___489111 0                                               19      0,2.1100231 528



TABLE 7
PGCM: PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY SECTOR
(Thousand USDollars)
T     1913        ~         f      199              T i                                 11             119997AMOUTA
AMOUNT                      AMOUNTAOUTAON                                                          _JAONTMUT
No. '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DISBURSED _%  No.  DISBURSED    %         No.  DISBURSED %! N. ISURE%                No.  DISBURSED %N.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUC.                so        15,113.5   29? Ilit          36,544A    35.0  126        45,322.2   36.5  141         63,771.0   41.2  99          45.191.5   4372  526        209,9324    38.0
AGRICULTURAL. SERViCES              0              0.0    0.0    1           290.0    0.2    0              0.0 __0.0     0              0.0    0.0    0              0.0 __0.0    I            250.0    0
FISHING                            29         14,101.2   26.2   40         159951.0   15,2  49          12.293.0 _9.1   42          25,437.0   16.4   30         20,714.0   19.6  159         99,396.0- 16.
MIEA   XRACTION               I          1,000.0 __1.9    2            494.1    0,5    0      ___  0.0 __0.0    0                  0.0    0.0    0              0.  _  0.0    3          1,494.1I    0.3
FO ROUTS                     1 2        7.80.4.2   14.5  -25        10.792.4   10.3   29         17.64.4.2   13.1  -16       12,069.5    7.6.  1 2        11,199.3,  10.7   95         59,509.0   10.
SC  ODPRODUCTS               2            962.4    0.3    0              0,0    0.0    0             0.0 __0.0    0               0.0    0.0    0              0.0    0.0    2            162.4    0
EVERAGES                   I~         ~~~~~~~~ 300.0 __0.6    I   2,000.0    2.9    I           150 0    &_06    0             0.0    0.0    0              0.0 __0.0    3           4,050.0    0.7
EXTILES                   ~~            ~~~~ ~~~0 0.0,   0.0    I    ___145,0    0,1.  2       1,10.40    0.9.   I           243.0    0 2    I            915.0 __0.0    5           2,307.4    0.
LOTHING                   ~     ~     ~~~~~~~I 300.01   0.6    5    641.3    0,61    1           27.0 _ 0.0    3            1,462.5    9.0    0             0.0    0.0   10          2,451.0    0.4
ODIWEAR                   0~~~~~        ~~~~ ____   .01   9.0    0    0.0    0.01  0               0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0    I            200.0 __0.0    I             200.0    0.
AN   RDCS             0    ___  0.0 __0.0    3                9,252.2    8.91  9          10,281.3 __7.6    7           1,650.3    1.1    I            73.3    0.0   20         21,257.1    3.1
URIUEAND ACCES.               0    ___  0.0    0.0    0    __    0.0    O00    2                    750.0 __0.6    3             279.0    0.2    0              0.0    0.0  _5           1,029.0    0.21
APRAND PRODUCTS                 4          2,200.0    4.1    I          1.3000     12    1             209.2    0.2    2           431.0    0.3    I           4,068.0    3.9 _9           9,207.0    1.5
USLISHING                 ~      ~      ~~~~ ~~0 0.0    0.0    2  1,045 0    1.0    2           994.0    0.7    I            220.3    0.  1I              200.01   0.0    6          2,359 0    0.4.
HIEMICAL PRODUCTS                  1            500.0    0.9    2            429.5    0.4    3           397.1    0.3    0              00    0.0    1             193.0    0.2    7          1,508.2., 0.3
THER CIEMICAI.                    0              0.0    0.0    1            926.0    0.9    0              0.0    0.0,  0               0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0    1            920.0    0.2
EFNERIAS PETROLEO                 0             0.0    O0.0    2           807.0    0.9    0              0.0    0.01  2             296.0    0.2    0              0.0    0.0    4          1,102.4    0.2
THER DERWAT00.0V0. 0                                   00                    00 0   0.0    0.0    1                         1,20.0    0.9 0   0.0    0.0                   I          12000 0.2                                       . 45tJ0.
LASADPRODUCTS                   0             0.0    0.0    0              0.0    0.0    0             3W 0.0   0 0 1            1,4    0.0 0.9    0              0.0    0.0    1          13.4,0    0.1
PRODUCTS             3~             0.0393    0.0  10    9__ 433 .0 __  0.0    3           4610.0    4 .3    4          953.04    0.76   0             07.0    0.06 29         2.41022.5   0
PRNODINUCTLS                   -I-          1980  __ 3.5    0                0,0 __0.0    0               0.0 __0.0    0            ,20.0    0.0    0              0.0    00    I            1.20090    0,2
ERVACDOPRODUTADS                 0              0.0 _0.0    2              50.00    0.5    0              0.0 _0.0    0            i40.0    0.0    0                0.0    0.0    2            5,000    013
ER MINERALPRODS.                  0              0.0  _0-0    0              OD__  00_  0.0    I        350.0  _034   0            190.0    0.0    0                07.0    0.0    7           3508.0   --0.;
ALNDISTRUELO                    0              0.0 __0.0    0   ___  0.0 __00    2                     4,74.2    0.4     1.6    5177.0    1.3    5               93.2    0.0   12           2,91433D   0.4
METALLtC0                            0.0   _ 0n.0    10.0   __ 0.2    1                      92.0A    a 0.6    3          714.4    0.5    3           45.0    0.0    3            2,26.   _ 02.
PRODUCTS2                       90.0    4.    2              8999.0  4_ .9    5         5,7'.  _4 3 753635.4                     .                 .950 1.   6                 5,1926.15   ID 0
NT FT A CNHINERY0                              0.0   .00.0    0     ___  0.0 __0.0    0                 0.0  N_ 0.     2          2,395.0    15     1         200.2 00,    00    2 424.950  _   0.
OF APAREL0                        20.0    0.01  0                0.0 _  0.0    0              09.01   0.01               115.     0.1    I           250.0    0.  _ 216.09i3     0.
FAICNGINSTRUMNDRS                0             09.0    004    0             0.0    0.0    I             45.0    0.0    0              00       ,0   00.0    0.0 _                              458.0  __ .1
ISC.PERSOO4ALSERVS       ~~             ~~0 0.0    0.0    0           0.0    0.0    0              0.0    0.0   0            .03.0    0.0    2            505.0    0.0 _ 2              50.01.



TABLE 8
PGCM: PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY SIZE
(Thousand USDollars)
|  1993                 i1994                   1995   j               ` 1996                1997                  TOTAL
AMOUNT                AMOUNT                AMOUNT   _             AMOUNT                AMOUNT  |       J       AMOUNT    _
LOAN SIZE       No. DISBURSED  %   No. DISBURSED  %   No. DISBURSED' %   No. DISBURSED    %   No. DISBURSED  %    No. DISBURSED   %
Fromooo100.000       13        947.4  1.8 42        2,693.4  2.6 224     11,419.0  8.5 172       9,480.0   6.1 29       1,887.5  1.8 480      26,427.0   4;8
From 100.001 to200.000  18    2,804.3  5.2 59       9,184.4   8.8 72     11,631.0  8.6 .63      10,095.4  6.5  38       5,829.3  5.6 250      39,544.1   7.2
From 200.001 to300.000  24    6,142.2  11.4 39     10,265.0   9.8 37      9,527.1   7.1  50     12,540.0   8.1  25      6,636.2  6.3  175     45,110.0   8.2
From 300.001 to 400.000  16   5,814.3  10.8 25      8,910.0   8.5 24      8,863.5   6.6 30      10,917.0   7.0  19      6,910.5  6.6  114     41,415.2   7.5
From 400.001 to 500.000  10  4,853.3   9.0 10      4,689.0  4.5 21       10,146.0   7.5 32      14,823.5   9.6  19      8,972.0   8.6  92     43,483.0   7.9
From 500.001 to 600.000   9  5,026.0  9.3 10       5,640.0   5.4  9       5,121.3   3.8 14       7,956.2   5.1  14      7,951.3  7.6  56      31,695.0   5.7
Frm 600.001 to 700.000  7    4,813.0  8.9  6       4,095.0   3.9  10      6,664.2   4.9  9       6,032.0  3.91 9        6,150.0  5.9  4i      27,734.0   5.0
From 700.001 to 800.000   2   1,600.0  3.0  5       3,797.2   3.6  16    12,120.0   9.0 10       7,578.2  4.9  6        4,791.0  4.6  39      29,886.1   5.4
From800.001 to900.000   1      805.5   1.5  1        860.0  0.8  7        5,948.0   4.4  6       5,263.4   3.4  6       5,181.4   5.0  21     18,058.1   3.3
From 900.001 to 1000.00   7   6,906.4  12.8 12     11,764.0  11.3  9      8,824.4   6.5  18     17,546.0  11.3  10      9,901.5  9.5  56      54,942.0   99
From 1000.001to2000.0  4      6,898.0  128  15     22,024,1  21.1  9     12,124.0   9.0 19      25,688.0  16.6  9      13,676.0  13.1  56     80,409.1  14.5
From 2000.001 to 3000.0   1   3,000.0  5.6  4      11,275.0  10.8  6     14,567.5  10.8  8      20,061.0  13.0  4       9,800.0   9.4  23     58,703.3  10.6.
From 3000.001 to 4000.0   0       0.0  0.0  0           0.0  0.0  0           0.0  0.0  2        6,900.0   4.5- 2       7,465.0  7.1  4        14,365.0   2.61   Un
From4000.001 to 5000.0   1    4,200.0  7.8  2       9,196.0   8.8  4     18,191.5  13.5  0           0.0   0.0  1       4,068.0  3.9  8       35,655.0   6.4    >
More than 5000.000    0          0.0      0             0.0   0.0  0          0.   Uo  W             0.0   0.0o 1       5,410.0  5.   I        5,410.0   10
TOTAL 113    53,810.01   . 0   104I391.1 100.01 448            [ 135,126.01100.04331   154,879.11100.01192    104,629.21100.0 1416   562,835.5 100.01



TABLE 9
PGCM: PSD DEVELOPMENT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
1993                                                   1 995                      lo1go j                      99                        TOTAL1
INTERMEDIARY    No, IDISB~AMURS                  ,JAOVNTJ                      AMOUNT            j        AMOUNT            j         AMOUNT            AjJA OUNT
AM.D OSUNTE             No.   SOIJRSE    %         No.  DISBURSED   %          No.  DSBURSE         %      N      lBRE          %      N. IBR              _
BNO OELPAC1PICO               2          f,540A0    2.0  22         9,13A.   897   29          13,722.0   10.2  27        15971.0   10.2  28          10.247.)    9.9  102        50.513.0    9.1
FILANBANCO             ~~44        2.5115    4 7   55        22.18900   21.3  19          3,098.0    2.3  14         9.551.?    4.2  IS          7558.0    7.2  148         94,473.4   11.7
aACO DE LAPRODUCCION           0             0 0    0.0   0             0 0     0 0    7       I11904.5   a8a   13          7,260 0    4.7   0             0.0    0.0  20          18,172.3    3.5
TERR109ITORIAL               1          1.500.0    208   3           10963    0 2    I          950.0    0.5    8         1110.0    0.7    3          1,20.0    1.2   1 l         4,722 0    0.9
9A40DEL PROGRESO             9          2.590 0    4.    9         3109.0     3 1   10         7,897.2    5.    3         0,432.0    3.5  13         15,448.0   14.8   48        3,4806.0    9.3
oDEL. PICHINCIIA           0             0 0     0.0  10        13.839 0    I13.1   7       45348.0     5 2    a        5844.5    3.8   5           3.040.0    2.9  38         28.970.3    4.9
O M4AZONA5                  0             0.0    0 0   5          2,510.0    2.4   6         27055.0    2.0    3         3.427.4    2.2    3           854.~0    0.9  I? 7       8,546.4    1.7
OBOLIVARIANO               I           600.01   0.9   9  1       2.614 2    2.01  6          1,251.2    0.    3         3,130.0    2.01  6          2.181.21   2.1   25         8 9967.01   1.9
DE CREDITO AGRIC            I           254.1    0.5   8           054.4    0.0  25          5,308.3 __4.0    3            3-67.0    0.2   0             0.0    8.0   35        68,32.0    1.2
OACONSOI40DADO                I           709.0    1.3   2           000.0    0.0    0            0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   0              0.0    9.0    3         1,200.0    0.2
BAN4CO COTINENIAL                0             0.0    0.0  14         6.4)8.0    6.1  20         12,149.0    8.0    4         1,09.01.0        2          1,080.0    1.0  48        21,724.5    3.9
MIBANMCO0SG                   0             0.0    0.0   0          -6000.     0.71  10        13,441.0  __  of  8         3,730.3    2.4    6         0,000.0    6.3  38         29.726.0   50.4
OAICHOANDOS UNIDOOSA        0             0.0    0.0    I           180.0    02    0             0.0    0.01  0              0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0    1           190.0    0.0
IYIBANK                ~~            ~~~    ~~~~0 00  00    0    0.0    0.0    I         2,3940  __ 1.8    0            0.0T    0.0    0            0.0    0.0    f         2,394.0    0.4
ODMACK" ,S A              I           150.01   0.3  18          0.210.4    0.0   2           360 0    0.3    4         2.0)0.0    1.3   4          2,322.4    2.2   27       10,063.0    1.0
DOEL TUNGURAHUA            2          1,1I5so.   2.1   6         3,450.0    3.3  20          7,589.8A   5.a89           4.505.?    2.9   4            919.0    0.8  40         17.311.4    3.11
COSOC, GNRL DE CREOiTO        0             0.     0.0   0             0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   3          2,5891.4    1.7   0             0.0    0.0   3          2,508.4    0.5
OCOGIEC                    I           500.0    1.0   7          4,790.4    4.9    0            0.0    0.0  10          3,712.0    2.4    7_    _3,S10.0    3.4  20            12,S40.4    2.3
ECUPINSA                        7          1.979.)    3.7   4         1,493.0    1.4   0             0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0   Il         3,472.2    0.6
FINAGRO 8CO DEL ArRO            26         9,756.0   16.3  10         0,010.0    4.9   14i        ,088.0    3.8  20          5,570.      3.6    3        1,700.0    1.6  73         26,127.2    4.7
eNO FINEC                     6          1.280 0   94.2   8         i,804.0   03.5   16         6.423 0  322.0   6         4,112.0  206.0    3           072.2   28.7  41         14,251.2    2.8                                     ,J
COMODIII CORP                   a          1,010.     2.0    7        1,850.0    1.8    0            0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0   Is         3,490.0    0.6                                     J
FLAMA                           4         4,069.0    9.2    2          327.4    0.31  0              0.0    0.01  0              0.01   0.01  0              0.0    0.0   6          2,086.4    1.0
FINAN4CIERA DEL AUTRO OA        0             0.0    0.0   0              00     0.0   0             0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.01  I            300.0    0.3    I           300.0    0.1
OACDE CREINTO SA             2          1,300.0    2.4   5         2,050.0    2.0   0              0.0    0.0   0             0.0    0.01  10          1,972.0    1.81  17        5,321.5    I.0
DEOLAUSTRO S.A             0             0.0    0.    I           400.0    0.4   6           1,386.0    1.0   5         1.991,0  _  1.3   0             0.0  ~0.0  12           5,776.4    0.71
MERAFIN                ~~            ~~~~ ~~~0 0.0    00    2  650.0    06    0              0.0    0.0    1          670.2    0.4    0             O____0.  0.0    3       1,325.2    0.21
O INTERNACION4AL S A        0             D'       .0   2           150      3.3    1          0 50.0    0.4   0             0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0    3         3,995.0    0.71
OINVERSIONES YNEG,         0             0.0    0.0   0             0.0    00    4           1,880)     .4A  13         4,715.4    3.0   0              ,0.. ~.10   17          .6120 a     .21
LA PREVISORA               a             00      00    3         2,127.21   2.0    6         4,364.0    3.2  33         17,544.4   11.3   t7        12.274 2    11.7  02       38,308.0    9.6l
ODELOCCIDENTE  0  0.0    00    2       957.0    0.6    0          4,227.0    3.)  tO          1,009.3  __ 0.7    2        1,073.3    1.0  28         7,026.2     1.3.3    1.0 28  7.06.2    1.
BNO POPULAR SA                0              0.0    0.0   0             0.0    0.01   I         2,384.01   1.0   0             0.0    0.0   2           1.899.3    1.9    3        4,292.0    0.91
COW4IANZAC   FA,rNAPC(ERA       0             0.0    0.0   4           890.0    0.7  13           3,275.5    2.4  20         3,302.0  __2.11  2            550.0    0.5  39          7.8)7.1I    1. 4
a-ONDOE PRPSrAMlOS               0             00     0.0   4         2.9162.2    2.7   8         9,501.0    4.0   I I       10,990.2    7.0   2            925.     0.81  26       21,126.2    3.0
FINANCIERA DELASAMERICAS        0             0.0    0.0,  0              0.0    00   93          1,253.1    0.9    I           57.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0  94          1,310.2    0.2
FINANCIERA INTERMIL             0             0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   7          1,300.0    1.0   0             0.0    0.0    0             0.0    0.0    7         1,509.0    0.2
SOLOANCO                        0             0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0  09          6,942.3    4.0  139        10,305.2    9.8  10         3,797.0    3.6  247        25,734.0    4.7
BNO FINANCORP SA              0              0.      0                   .     0.0   0              0.0    0.0   10         5,287.2    3.4   6          3,525.0    3.4  10         9,922.2    1.6
SOC. F11NAN INTERAMERICANA       0             00     0.0    0            0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   2            340.0    0.2    0             0.0    0.0   2           340.0    0.1
CONSULCREDIIO SOC. FINAN.       0              0.    0.    0              0.0    0.0   0-             0.0    0.0   3         2,429.01   1.61  2           1,0114.0    1.0    0       3,022.0    0.9
ANO UNION BAUNION             0              0.0    0.00                0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   9          2,872.0    1.8   14         7,940.0 7__.3  20         I10,811.4    1.9
8ANCOASPRVRIL                    0             0.       0    0            00o    0.0   0              0.0    0.0    I         1,000.0    0.6    3         1,250.0       1,2   4       2,250.0    0.4
TECFINSA SOC. IN.ANCIERA         0         .000.0            0            00      0.0O  0             00      .0    3         1,533.0    1.0   4          1,448.2    1.4   7          2,9801.    0.5
SOC FINANCIERAHEMISFERIO         0             0.0    00     0            0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0   0              0.0    0.0    1 .         400.0    0.4    1          400.0    0.1
aNO DE COMERCIO EXTEIOR       0              0.0    90     I           21.4    0.0  20          2,792.01   2.0  12          8,490.0    5.5   9          7,402.0    7.1  42        19,721.0    3.4
SSOC.FPINANCIERA CAPITAL         0             0.     0                   0.0    0.0   0              0.01   0.01  I            39.0    0.2    1            250.0    0.2   2           930.0    0.1
BANCO SOLiDARIO                  000                  0.01  0             0.0     00    000                  000 0.0                     0.    384.0                  .9 3              40.0    0.2
ECUACAM,491 FINAN.CIERA         0             0.0    00 0r                00     0.                   00     0.I                 0.01   0.0   2            347.4    0.5   2            57.      01
TOT'AL  Ill        03,110.0]  109.0  230,    143,    0.0 46               30.1260199 42              147.    10.0,0  102                           Isis, 180116 0205.    0.
_ _ _ _ _ _-   -   -  -  =-~~ -              =..             ~         ~         ~         ~0                  ~      ~      ~               -               C



TABLE 10
PGCM: PSD PROJECT: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY TENOR
(Thousand USDollars)
J .      1993                  1994                   ' 1995                1996      =            1997                   TOTAL
AMOUNT                AMOUNT                AMOUNT                 AMOUNT                 AMOUNT                  AMOUNT
LOANTENORINYEARS            DISBURS      %   No. DISBURSE    %   No. DISBURSE    %   No. DISBURSE    %   No. DISBURSE    %    No. DISBURSE    %
UP TO I YEAR              1        261.3   0.5  0           0.0   0.0  1          0.0   0.0  0           0.0   0.0  0           0.0   0.0   2        322.2   0.1
MORETHAN1YEARTO2          0          0.0   0.0  6        564.0   0.5 40       2,573.1   1.9  16      2,573.1   1.6  18      3,959.1   3.8  80       8,659.0   1.6
MORETHAN2YEARSTO3         6      1,109.0  2.1  23       8,246.3   7.9 70      7,537.0   5.6 40      12,696.0   8.0  13      8,628.0   8.2 152    38,216.0   6.9
MORETHAN3YEARSTO4         2      1,800.0   3.3  8       1,785.0   1.7 44      3,765.0   2.8  15      1,510.1  1.0  8        2,002.2   1.9  77      10,862.2   2.
MORETHAN4YEARSTO5    21          8,560.0  15.9  56     15,032.3  14.4 137    41,225.4  30.5 229    57,473.1  36.2 68       28,698.1  27.4  511    150,989.0 273.
MORETHAN5YEARSTO6    23          9,839.2  18.3  26     12,156.2  11.6 42     14,823.0  11.0 43      21,476.5  13.5  28     12,220.0  11.7  162    70,515.0  12.8
MORETHAN6YEARSTO7    21         12,290.4  22.8  68     34,463.0  33.0  71    41,114.5  30.4  70    45,216.1  28.5 43      35,740.5  34.2  273    168,824.3  30.5
MORETHAN7YEARSTO8    15          6,924.4  12.9  15      8,992.0   8.6  24    10,846.2   8.0  11      8,689.2   5.5  7      10,359.0   9.9  72     45,810.4   8.3
AORETHAN8YEARSTO9    0               0.0   0.0  1        221.0   0.2  1         330.0   0.2  0           0.0   0.0  0          0.0   0.0   2         551.0   0.1       v
MORE THAN9YEARS TO 10   24      13,026.1  24.2  25     22,350.3  21.4  18    13,861.3  10.3  9       5,242.1  3.3  7       3,022.4   2.9  83      57,505.4  10.4
MORE THAN ioYEARS         0          0.0  0.0  2         582.0   0.6  0           0.0   0.0  0           o.o0  0.0  0          0 o.0   0.0   2  |    582.0   0.1|
fIOTAL                  11131  53,810.01 100.0 230   104,391.4 100.0 4481 135,126.0 100.0 433[  158,879.11 100.0| 1921 104,629.31 100.0114161 552,835.51 100.0



TABLE 11
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (1992-1 997)
____________________CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL                                                                      __
______                           ~~~~~~~Actual Data (Annual Data as of December 31) -                                              ___
____  _ -   -- -    JSto~~~~ck:  Nd PX R                1,844.301   2,03     2,269.0!  2,923.5)   3,635.0   4,321.0
_________ ________  ____  _____ {~Flow:_  Av. Xge R              1,534.001   1,919.11  2,196.71~ 2,564.5~ 3,189.5   3,985.2
______  _________ _______ _________(Millones de Sucres) _  _(Millones de Dolares)                                             ___
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996~~ 1997   .1992              1993'    1994       1995      1996      1997
Total Assets          ~~~~~337,597   538,725   800.034 1,169,027  2,334,965    3,813,972  183.01    263.6    352.6 - 399.9   642.4    882.7
Short Term Assets           _____        26,952 _87,479    56,926   131,406 __389,797                     13.2      38.6,     19.5      36.2      90.2
Short Term Liabilities                   32,360    79,193    57,319   108,777      211,439 __15.8                   34.9~   19.6        29.9      48.9
Equfty               ~~~~204,604   272,663   351,109   466,917   594,551   824,879      110.9.    133.4'    154 71    159.7    163.6    190.9
Net Profit (Loss)              -5,225     1,992    11,373    37,203      4,1128     45,377 _     3410{               5.21     14.5       1.3      11.4
Total Admin. Costs             10,312    10,966    16,035    19,663    27,356       47,269       6.7       5.7       7.3j      7.7       8.6   .  11.9
Loan Portfolio                117,015   313,708   572,573   903,612  1,945,064    3,170,531 __ 63.4      153.5l    252.31    309.1    535.1      733.7
'Nominal Value               121,539   321,123   601,208   954,409__2,028,775    3,262,772     65.9     157.1    265.01    326.5      558.1    755.1
'CumUl. Provisions             4,524     7,415    28,635    50,797    83,711       92,241 ___ 2.5         3.6      12.6      17.4      23.0      21.3
*Annual Provisions              423      2,906    21,490    26,621    33,390       55,449      0.23      1.51      9.78     10.38     10.47     13.91
Portfolio in arrears + 6 months
15,307    28,180    41,080    49,348      45,541 .7.49                   12.421    14.05      13.58     10.54
As % of total portf.      .4.77                    4.69.    4.301       2.43        1.40 .____          4.77      4.69      4.301     2.43      1.40 
Long -Term Debt       ~~~~90,946   18053 3988 582,681  1,217,749 ~1,884,4011            49.3.     88.3  __136.6    199.31    335.0    436.1
Investment Portfolio          166,964   152,0331   73,983   1505       46,161      1705         90.5      74.4      326       42.8      40.2      24.81
Nominal Value               171,773   156,683    79,896   141,014   165,307      129,015      93.1      76.7 ___35.21       48.2      45.5      29.9
 Cumul. Provisions             4,809     4,650     5,913    15,959    19,146       21,990       2.6       2.3       2.61      5.5       5.3       5.1
Disbursements
* 1 st tier                 61,370    78,729   111,705    40.509      0.00         0.00 _    40.0      41.0      50.9      15.8       0.0       0.0
2nd tier                  21,219   165,552   294,579   387,629  1,176,223    1,759,496     13.8      86.3    134.1      151.2    368.8    441.5
TOTAL                  82,589   244,281   406,284   428,138  1,176,223    1,759,496 _   53.8     127.3    185.0      166.9    368.8    441.5
Disbursements
Large enterprises           61,370   218,887   314,044   374,966  1,107,088   1,630,191       40.0     114.1    143.01    146.2    347.1    409.1
* Smnall/Med.enterpr.         20,853    24,094    78,197    46,627    46,563       92,156      13.6       12.6     35 6!      18.2     14.61     23.1
* Micro-enterprises              366     1,300    14,043      6,544    22,572      37,149       0.2   -0.7 -. 6.41            2 6       7.1       9.3
TOTAL                  82,589   244,281   406,284   428,137  1,176,223    1,759,496     53.8     127.3    185.01    166.9    368.8    441.5
Disbursements__ _ _ _-                                                                                 ..- _                             _    _ _ _ _
Local currency               82,589   143,063   224,082   127,811 326,072        611,596      53.8      74.51    102.01    -49.8   ~102.2   ~153,.5
Foreign currency               0.00   101,218   182,202   300,326   850,151    1,147,900       0.0      52.7      82.9'    117.1    266.5    288.0
TOTAL                  82,589   24421 4624 428,137  1,76,2               17946          53.81     127.3   -15.01    166.9    368.8       415
IRefinancings (Approvals)  1    3,8361   29,0561    8,871    95,661   114,7311      36,716       2.51     15.11 --    4.01- - 37.3      36.0       9.2



TABLE 12
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RATIOS (1992-1997)
1993     1994      1995      1996       1997
A. Financial
Retum on Av.Tot Assets (%)             0.45      1.70      3.78     0.24        1.48
Retum on Aver. Equity (%)              0.83      3.65      9.10      0.78       6.39       _  __
Current Ratio|                         0.83      1.10      0.99      1.21       1.84    ________  _
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%)            18.44     14.39      28.3     20.92      21.92
Admin.Costs/Av.Tot Assets(%)           2.50      2.40      2.00      1.56       1.54
Gross Finnancial Margin (%)           17.57     24.61     31.11     28.36      28.36
Margin on Productive Assets(%)         -9.7      -3.3     -0.9       1.0        1.0
Av. Tot Assets/Av. Tot. Equity         1.84      2.15      2.41      3.30      4.33
Long-Term DebtlAv.Tot. Equity          0.76      0.99      1.42     2.29        2.66
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997             oc
B.Ooerations |                                          ____                              __  _     _-_ (Th US$)
Cost of Staff/# of Staff (Mill.S.)    21.874    31.465    38.808    57.351    89.862                 11.398    14.324j   15.133    17.981    22.549
Cost of Staff/Admin. Costs (%)        66.42     66.72     65.92     65.62      48.29
Staff Members/Executive (#)   _         7         8         8         8          5
Profs & Techns/Executive (#)            4         4         5         5          4
Disbursements/Staff (Mill.Sucr.)     733.577   1,194.95  1,281.85   3,757.90    6,927.15 (US$ Mill.)    0.382  0.544     0.500     1.178     1.738
Av.Total Assets/# Staff (Mill S.)     1,315.80   1,968.76  2,947.70   5,597.43   12,104.21 (USS Mill.)    0.644    0.868  1.008    1.540     2.801
Av. Portfolio/# Staff (Mill.S.)   I__  646.73   1,303.35  2,209.86  4,550.60   10,070.07 (US$ Mill.)    0.3161    0.574  0.756     1.252     2.330



IBRD 28022
00       81:.7Q0f;  7ClD0tO3;0;00000;00tt;!20jjt8l                         78                     77-                      716' 
0000    z 00  0    ; S t   '- :0 '   $ ;                                         ~C O L O M B I A                      
TUL      -
:SMERALDAS                                 -
oot00i000004)~~~~~~~~Cyc                                                                        U| 000 $00000;000;2000            <X&4..v  Carmen de'~   0
$0 40:000 ;jf f00 0 ;00 ;000 0deIosC3 -   f         os                    (A               K        '    - RioA  arco
I    (  ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      erto ~~~~~oit
00  0Bahia deCaoqu4ez      A    Ai.B>.. .,'                --                                  -      S *O eIlana                   ,y' p
S   B  +                                               <            --    f '    -        j    NA    P0
;;;t ~ ~  ~     ~     Clct    ,2 ;0CO   P g        <      < .+ AXsAc  '  LAUG  &A---idono                          c 'nonaco    R      iaur
1'            r    Velasco  b~~~~~~Zarra  $e d
:~~~~~7                                  00l          t5t0;000;  i;c>   <>Ayt 4EfSA                                                          N/     
Lago Agrico
Suuc    MROA 
M A                                                                                 r e I  a-,   --  nS  a  76
000                                       GAAAO  I                             -00   PAVED t4-   XEPC U  ROADSOv
TEA ARHNA                          ~AROT
X~~~~~ J A                                                                                        L OTS_X
ISLM  1A ALAO                                PROVINCE9BOUNDARIE            6
BA~~~~~~~~~IL
5'                ~                                            SABLAandan oherinormtin sowto
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~________ crAaniAa                                                                 7ay6n,reen  r cepaceo
L~~~~~~~~~~~sc  onais
81'        80'                   KILOMETERS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1rre._      90'3~
-3- i       A Z U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19



