Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23712 EC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.86 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FORA
EC PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
February 25, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = US$ Dollars
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
GOE           Govemment of Ecuador
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finances
SIGEF         Integrated System of Management and Financial Information
IFMS          Integrated Financial Management System
ICT           Information and Communication Technology
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean
PREM          Povery Reduction and Economy Management
MOSTAMod         ernization of the State Technical Assistance
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CGE           Contralor General del Estado
AME           Asociacion de Municipalidades del Ecuador
IESS         Instituto Ecuadoreano de Seguro Social
CONAM         Consejo Nacional de Modemizacion del Estado
Vice President:  David De Ferranti, LCRVP
Country Manager/Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Paul Sisk



ECUADOR
EC PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          19
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environmental                                                                      20
6. Social                                                                             21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    22



2. Critical risks                                                                   24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           55
Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan                                                   56
MAP(S)



ECUADOR
EC Public Sector Financial Management
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPR
Date: February 22, 2002                         Team Leader: Paul Edwin Sisk
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero    Sector Manager/Director: Emesto May
Project ID: P074218                             Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant   [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $13.86
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 0 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                       Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% - 0.75%                 Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[ ], Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     3.90           1.08         4.98
IBRD                                                         9.36           4.50        13.86
Total:                                                      13.26           5.58        18.84
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Ing. Carlos Julio Emmanuel, Ministro
Address: Av. 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Contact Person: Maria Dolores Cevallos, Advisor to the Vice Minister of Finance
Tel: 2906893           Fax: 2906598            Email: mdcevallos@minfm.gov.ec
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003      2004       2005
Annual    7.19        4.34      2.33
Cumulative    7.19      11.53      13.86
Project implementation period: 3.0 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2005
OCS PAD FcmL F. MEAT. DATA



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Improved effectiveness and transparency in financial management in the general government
sector. Contribute to better governance through greater transparency attained by the independent
verification of the integrity of government financial reporting.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards program objectives and their evaluation upon completion will be measured by
the achievement and quality of the following: (i) the timeliness and comprehensiveness of budget
and financial reporting from the non-financial general government sector, (ii) the extent to which
there is application of an Integrated Treasury System (IFMS) within the general government
sector, (iii) the portion of public financial statement reports subject to the Controller's opinion,
and (iv) the effectiveness of cash management within the general government sector.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15419   Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/25/97
The Bank Group Program, presented in the June 2000 update, will focus in the short term on: (i)
Protecting the Poor and Setting the Basis for Human Development and Poverty Reduction; and
(ii) Restoring Macro-financial and Growth Recovery for Poverty Reduction. Under the latter, the
Bank will support improvements in fiscal and public sector management. The proposed operation
supports the Government's program to modernize public sector financial management.
The project aims to support the sustainability of socioeconomic development through i)
investment in integrated financial management systems which will improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the use of public sector financial resources, and ii) support to ensure the diffusion
of financial information on the public sector. There will also be independent verification of
integrity, which will contribute to the transparency and accountability of the public sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the early 1990's, successive administrations have worked to modernize public expenditure
control and accountability in resource management. On the basis of the 1992 Public Budget Law
and the 1993 Modernization of the State (MOS) Law - with the support of the World Bank's
MOSTA project - the authorities have been developing modern systems for the management and
control of public finances. They have recently drafted two new pieces of key enabling legislation
in this area: the Public Finance Control Law (Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalizacion y Auditoria),
which is awaiting debate second reading in Congress; and the Public Financial Management Law
(Ley Organica de Gestion Financiera del Estado), which is yet to be sent by the Executive to
Congress. The Control Law will end the ex-ante control by the Auditor-General (Contraloria
General del Estado-CGE) and will eliminate the functional duplication of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and the CGE on the issuance of accounting standards. The law makes each
entity responsible for its internal control and places accounting standard setting under the joint
- 2 -



jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the CGE. The Financial Management
Law, on the other hand, will apply the principle of centralized standard setting and decentralized
operations, enabling the various agencies to assume direct responsibility for their own institutional
financial management.
The Government views modemization of public financial management as crucial to aligning
expenditure more closely with policy priorities. In particular, this would be to manage expenditure
within social and poverty reduction programs, something which is reflected in the Structural
Adjustment Loan. This loan supports (a) improvement of the institutional framework for
expenditure management, (b) decentralization of the budget function, and (c) improvement of
expenditure control - specifically advancing the implementation of the recently developed
Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema Integrado de Gestion Financiera-SIGEF).
The Bank has been deeply involved in reform in Ecuador since the early 1990's and, with the
MOSTA project Loan 3822-EC, was the only external financier of the principle initiative in state
modernization. This operation closed in March 2001 with the official transfer of the Integrated
Financial Management System (SIGEF) by the project, which was managed under CONAM, to
the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Other MOSTA achievements in the area of financial
management include the draft laws on Control and Financial Management, the successful
implementation of a debt management system (SIGADE), the building of budgets around input
from the spending agencies under MEF guidelines, and the creation of a personnel data base for
the civil service. The Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Bank in May 2000 is
conditional, implying the continuation of the modernization of public sector financial management,
and specifically the implementation of the new legal framework, extension of the SIGEF and the
absorption of the SIGEF into the MEF. SIGEF is mandatory for the whole of the non-financial
general government sector; SIGEF management tools have been installed and are being used in
22 central government entities: the central units of all Ministries, the Presidency, Vice Presidency,
the Office of the Auditor General, the Electoral Tribunal and in 62 Provincial Offices of the line
ministries. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has established an office to coordinate the
financial management system in the public sector, and the transfer of the SIGEF management to
the MEF is complete.
The proposed operation supports the Government's program to modernize public sector financial
management. Specifically, it would (i) consolidate reforms in financial management and control,
(ii) install and fully implement an integrated financial management system, and (iii) develop and
strengthen the CGE's audit capacity. SIGEF is now used at 3 levels in the Central Government:
(i) SIGEF Institutional - in most spending agencies to control budget execution, perform treasury
ledger accounting, and for cash management, ii) SIGEF Global- in the MEF Sub-Secretary of
Budgets to track approved budgets and changes to these, and iii) SIGEF Treasury - in the MEF
Sub-Secretary of Treasury for the preparation of Treasury statements (sources and application of
funds) and to control monthly cash programming. However, while SIGEF is working in each
instance, it has not reached its coverage potential in terms of percentage of budget processed
within it, or within the applications of administrative processes that can and should be integrated.
Furthermore, key processes in SIGEF Global have not been completed (e.g. consolidation of
budgets or execution by sector, recording of execution against approved budgets in SIGEF
-3-



Global), since these were planned for the last half-year of the MOSTA but not completed because
staff members were reassigned to support budget development in SIGEF.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will help Ecuador address the weak administrative capacity of the public sector and
improve governance at both national and sub-national levels. Country performance in these areas,
which are considered high priorities by both the Government and the Bank, has been poor.
SIGEF will provide the timely, reliable and relevant financial information, which is an
indispensable element of strong administrative capacity. The paucity of information for decision
making is acutely felt in line ministries, as well as in the area of control. Here, efforts are
dissipated in looking at the different parts of the public sector, since no reliable, comprehensive
information allows for risk evaluation or control review planning for the system as a whole.
SIGEF, through ex-post analysis performed by the MEF Sector Analyst of the SIGEF
INSTITUTIONAL reports, will provide the means to verify that the use of funds by individual
administrative units is in line with authorized Budget uses and the cash programs approved by the
Treasury. SIGEF will also provide the means to record and report any non-treasury revenues and
their uses at spending agency level.
It is recognized that good governance is essential to development; accountability (legal, political,
and financial) as a key element of good governance compels a state to focus on results and report
on its performance. Corruption is a symptom of poor governance, and Ecuador recognizes the
problem of corruption in the public sector and has given high priority to combating corruption.
Accountability, which combats corruption, is only possible with transparency in the financial
operations of the government. The project contributes to transparency by developing financial
control and reporting capacity, as well as by contributing to the capacity for independent
verification of the integrity of the government reports by the Supreme Audit Institution
(Contraloria).
While a tool for effective financial management was developed within the framework of MOSTA
(SIGEF), its implementation and effective application in the targeted-, and indeed minimum-,
scope public sector entities is yet to be carried-out. SIGEF 's array of applications and its
coverage of final external transactions are yet to be completed and processed. Its edits must be
extended down through the 22 central administrative entities where it is now operating, and the
capacity to consolidate infornation within sectors, as well as for the entire central administration,
must be fully completed and applied. In its current state, Ecuador's public sector does not furnish
stakeholders with the transparency of their operations (a requirement in the process of
accountability). Of equal relevance to two of the expected outcomes of effective public sector
expenditure management (assigning resources to strategic goals and achieving efficiency,
economy and effectiveness) is the paucity of financial information available to line ministries.
Lastly, the feeble state of financial management at the sub-national government level, for decision
making and for reporting of fund use, undermines both the reporting on the general government
sector and the capacity of these entities to absorb the functions which may be marked for
decentralization. The Draft Report-Decentralization Reform Agenda in Ecuador (PREM World
- 4 -



Bank, Fernando Rojas Task Manager, May 2001) presents the LAC lessons on decentralization,
which show that decentralization can only come about after certain minimum requirements have
been met; these minimum requirements having mainly to do with transparent financial
management. Minimum accounting, budgeting, reporting and control standards are necessary
before the central government can change the role of direct service provider for planning,
regulation, supervision and evaluation.
In addressing these concerns, the proposed operation chose to direct itself towards the need of
comprehensive management information by completing and leveraging the current system. Thus,
it would achieve its impact goals within the first year and then move on to the adoption of more
sophisticated tools and ICT environments.
In what particularly concerns transparency in the public sector, by applying the IFMS approach to
as much of the general government sector as is practical, the operation will support the
preparation of timely, comprehensive and reliable financial reports and, by capacity building in the
Contraloria, independent verification will be provided on the government's reports. For
management informnation, the implementation of the complete suite of SIGEF applications will
ensure that all of an entity's information is processed and available in real time. The sub-national
governments will have an instrument that ensures their compliance with the legislative
requirements on financial administration reporting, provides them with the necessary operating
information and permits the MEF to compile comprehensive general government sector reports
and establish the financial position of the overall public sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative           Bank-     % of
Component                 Sector       Costs     % of    financing  Bank-
.  (US$M)    Total    (US$M)   financing
Consolidation of SIGEF                              3.19     16.9      2.55     18.4
Expansion of Coverage of SIGEF                      6.58     34.9      5.02     36.2
Upgrade SIGEF's Technological Base                  4.53     24.0      3.23     23.3
Develop Audit Capacity                              1.03      5.5      0.82      5.9
Establish Organizational and                        0.42      2.2      0.34      2.5
Functional Support
Administration and Evaluation                       2.95     15.7      1.76     12.7
Total Project Costs                18.70     99.3     13.72      99.0
Front-end fee                  0.14       0.7     0.14       1.0
Total Financing Required                 18.84    100.0     13.86     100.0
The reliability of SIGEF Institutional can be inferred from its performance in the 84 administrative
units where it has been running for the whole of fiscal year 2001, without any performance
problems. The Bank's evaluation of the products in the last supervision mission by the MOSTA
- 5 -



SIGEF component corroborates this conclusion. Similarly, SIGEF has shown itself effective
within the Treasury by aiding MEF to control expenditures.
Given the advances in the acceptance of the integrated treasury (IFMS) system tool - SIGEF - the
training in the MEF and spending agencies, plus the proven reliability and effectiveness of the
system, five thrusts would be made under the proposed operation. These would be to consolidate
the advances made to date, extend the SIGEF to more entities, improve the SIGEF technology
base, develop capacity in the CGE for auditing the comprehensive financial statements of the
general government sector, and to ensure the requisite legal, organizational and functional support
for the integrated Treasury (IFMS) approach. While Bank financing is estimated at 75%, it should
be noted that, of the on-going expenditures for consultant costs - development, maintenance and
support - the Bank's share declines over the life of the project (to 60% in year 3).
Implementation Targets For Components 1 and 2
2001        2002       2003      2004
Central Administration
Ministerial Head Quarters       22
Provincial Branch Offices       62          49         34
Affiated Entities                           3          4
Autonomous Entities                               4              2
Sectional Governments                       25%        25%        12%
An organizational map of the Central Government's line ministries with affiliated and
autonomous entities with an indication of the status of SIGEF implementation by the end of 2002
is in the Project files.
Component 1 - Consolidation of SIGEF I (US$ M 3.19)
Foremost in outputs is the culmination of the SIGEF IFMS tool, which is already running its core
subsystems in the central offices of all the ministries. However, it provides neither the means for
effective consolidation of incurred budget expenditure and the financial position for the central
authorities of any sector, nor does it yet provide the spending ministries with the full complement
of its ancillary systems (the management information module is not parameterized in most
agencies and the inventory module has not been implemented).
This component is comprised of the following sub-components:
i)    Completion of the programming, testing and implementation of SIGEF GLOBAL.
Given the mandate to provide operational decentralization, SIGEF recognizes the autonomy
of each Administrative Unit and supports this with separate budget and accounting records.
However, these must be consolidated by Institution and Sector, as well as for the central
government administration and, eventually, for the general government sector. SIGEF GLOBAL
-6-



will provide the means for consolidation. The component relates to all activities in developing
consolidation applications and supporting users in the submission of these reports. SIGEF output
files for consolidation may be set to report at different levels of budget aggregation: from the
most detailed (i.e. item and expense classification within activity) to totals by group within each
activity. The approach set by MEF for the 2001 consolidation was to aggregate by group, so as
not to appear to encroach upon the line ministries' operational independence. The outputs for
2002 will be modified to meet the consolidation reporting demands, which may include
consolidation by item.
ii)   Completion of the implementation support in Central Ministries for all modules.
Key SIGEF modules are yet to be implemented; user support in use of core subsystems
must intensify to achieve the acceptance, sustained use and full benefit of the tool. The
sub-component will comprise user support, training in the effective use of core and ancillary
subsystems, and on-going support to central administration installations.
iii)  The provincial offices of the line ministries
These transactions represent a significant portion of social sector spending, although much of
it is booked against budget on the strength of transfer requests or on the strength of
documentation rendered long after the fact. These units are given the same administrative capacity
as the central ministries and, as such, transactions originating at the provincial level will be
processed with all the edits offered by SIGEF and those available for consolidation at any level.
Component 2 - Expansion of Coverage: SIGEF Institutional (US$ M 6.58)
SIGEF is in use at the central offices of all the line ministries and must now cascade down through
the public sector to the following levels:
i) Autonomous bodies and entities affiliated with line ministries (IESS, Public Universities). These
represent the significant uses of public funds and are the providers of key services that can be
executed efficiently only where effective financial management is in place. Reengineering of
processes, followed by implementation of the systems, are the sub-components activities.
ii) The objective of this sub-component is to support financial management within the sectional
governments. At the individual level, this would be through the attainment of the basic outcomes
of public expenditure management, with respect to the performance of the municipality. At the
joint level, this would be through contributing to these outcomes in the general government sector
by providing the central authorities, and all interested parties, with timely, reliable reports on the
use of public sector resources and the financial position of the sub-national sector.
A three pronged approach for the improvement of financial management within the municipalities
has evolved from the analysis of the existing state of compliance with financial administration
legislation, the strengths of the municipalities and the objectives set out under this component.
-7 -



The broad range of size and capacity in the 215 municipalities in Ecuador is evident from the
following table, which classifies the municipalities by the amount of budget resources transferred
from the central administration during the period 1 January - 31 August 2001. It can be seen that
the 51 largest municipalities represent 66% of the use of resources, the next 63 amounting to
20%, while the last 101 municipalities represent only 14%.
Municipalities
Classification by  No of          Amount of         % of Total
Population       Municipalities   Expenditures
01/01 to 08/31
>500,000                    2       $ 59,000,000       24
100,000 < 500,000             18       $ 61,000,000       25
50,000 < 100,000              31       $ 43,000,000        17
20,000 -<50,000              63        $ 29,000,000       20
Sub Total                 114      $ 192,000,000       86
< 20,000                 101        $ 56,000,000       14
Total                   215      $ 246,000,000       100
Some large municipalities have developed ad hoc IFMS, Quito uses SIGEF, while 72 are running
PROGFIM which was developed by the Association of Municipalities (AME), in collaboration
with the Contraloria. The package is comprised of modules for administration, accounting,
budgeting, and banks. Although none of the versions fully incorporates the provisions of the latest
norms on financial reporting, (Ministry of Economy and Finance Ministerial Resolution 182), all
versions apply the current budget categories. The project will support the implementation of
SIGEF in the large municipalities, develope a limited version for smaller ones, and support
consolidation of reporting from all systems operating in municipalities. Under this approach the
sub-component is made up of 5 activities:
1.    To organize and process, through the use of SIGEF Global, the aggregation of the
sub-national sector. This is to be for use by AME, CONCOPE and others who are analyzing the
performance and financial position of this sector as well as for consolidation by MEF in order to
determine the general government sector budget and financial situation.
2.    Implementation of SIGEF in 35 of the 51 largest municipalities (66% of municipal
expenditures) that consider it advantageous to convert from their current system to SIGEF. The
training of users, the installation and on-going support of the application, as well as the
contribution of the minimum requisite equipment to operate SIGEF will be provided by the
project.
3.    To develope a SIGEF Institutional version for implementation in smaller municipalities.
-8 -



4.    Tp develope procedures for the conversion of outputs to permit their aggregation and
subsequent consolidation by SIGEF GLOBAL.
5.     To support municipalities, through the regional offices of AME to comply with internal
and external financial management needs. In each regional office, the AME-fmanced information
technology specialist will support the municipalities in the maintenance of the systems base for the
application. A public sector financial management specialist will support the municipalities
through training in public sector legislation. This specialist will also work with the municipalities
to develop procedures for timely monitoring and follow-up compliance with mandatory reporting.
The instruments to be applied in this component are the inter-institutional agreements for the
installation and use of SIGEF and the inter-institutional agreement with AME. The outputs and
performance indicators applicable to the sub-component are the percentages of municipal
resources reported to MEF on time and which are included in the periodic aggregation and
consolidation report.
Component 3 - Upgrade of SIGEF's Technological Base (US $ M 4.53)
The output sought in this component is to keep SIGEF current and viable, taking advantage of the
rapid technological changes which the IT and the telecommunications industries are undergoing.
This will be achieved through the establishment of a public data network and by converting
selected SIGEF services to Web-based technology.
Public Data Network: The maintenance and support of the distributed databases is greatly
facilitated and made economical through a real-time connection with the SIGEF technical support
unit. Updates of new versions and user support in informatics demand constant communication
between the Administrative Units and the SIGEF support unit. These will be greatly enhanced by
real-time communications, as will the periodic transmission of results and daily requests for funds
between the units and the Treasury, and information on the movement in the T accounts of the
executing units. This capacity will also permit the centralization of processing: either in a client
server arrangement for the line ministries in Quito, or in 3 tiers - as the appropriate versions are
available. Hence, equipment investment and the quality and timeliness of the financial information
would be optimized. The provision of telecommunications capacity in MEF, and the connection to
a MEF Web site via Internet, will facilitate access to public sector financial information by the
widest possible audience.
This component will finance the study of alternatives to real-time communications with the
entities in Quito, the main provincial centers and, finally, outlying areas. This component will also
finance the fees from private sector telecommunications service providers and the related
equipment for the connection that are not implied in the providers conditions.
-9-



Conversion to Web based technology: The client-server architecture of SIGEF does not facilitate
its extension to all the entities with budget autonomy, of which there are approximately 3000. If
the autonomy of these units is to be supported and their administration rendered efficient and
integrated with other similar units, then their transactions must be processed by a reliable system
that ensures the integrity of data and the reliability of its results, which may be made available to
designated users in real time. This component will develop a Web-based SIGEF to run centrally in
MEF, or in some host provider, and will permit use by any unit with access to the Public Data
Network. The PPF studied this component to evaluate alternative approaches to obtaining the
Web version: through the programming of applications specifically for the Web, conversion tools
applied to the existing programs or masks to simulate Web technology. The evaluation concluded
that the tools (languages) for rewriting the applications are evolving; the standard is JAVA, but it
is being challenged by C#. Knowing which will prevail and choosing this will be important in
ensuring future support. Similarly, there is limited experience with application development for
administrative systems in these languages and there is no expertise in the local market; conversion
tools are simply not available. The evaluation saw no disadvantage in the operation efficiency of
the system in the third alternative, i.e. creating gateways to the current version of the applications
through the use of Browsers. The evaluation concluded that risks would be minimized by this
approach, which is used by leading commercial Application Service Providers such as CORIO and
ACCPAC-International, and that the project should use known gateway applications such as
FORMS SERVER or METAFRAME.
Timing for completion of the two components is intertwined with and dependent on upgrades of
telecommunication capacity by the communications service providers. The conversion to a
Web-based version of SIGEF will begin with the incorporation of accounting entities not currently
running SIGEF. The version will be available by July 2003 and this will be preceded by the
development of a public data network. The use of the public data network will coincide with the
installation of the necessary equipment and the hiring of the external communications services.
The Quito entities of the Central Government will have access to the public data network by the
end of 2002, as will the Provincial Offices which are currently running SIGEF. The balance of the
central government will be able to come aboard as they install the current client server SIGEF and
communication services expand to the respective accounting entity. Three hundred and thirty-five
(335) points, comprising 85% of the central government administration expenditures, will be
connected by the end of 2002. All accounting entities with access to the Public Data Network will
also have access to the network and be able to process through SIGEF once the Web version is
available (July 20003).
The development of the public data network and the installation in MEF of hardware and
software to support the Web version will be used to operate two Web sites ( SIGEF and MEF)
which will be constructed and operated by the Project Unit. The SIGEF Web site will address
both users and targeted users of the SIGEF system. The site will afford users with a link to a data
base of operating and legal regulations on public sector finances, a link to upload data to MEF,
and access to limited updates. Non-user entities will access the data base of regulation and
promotional material on SIGEF. The MEF Web site will provide links to SIGEF but, more,
importantly, will afford the public access to information on public sector budget and finances.
- 10-



Component 4 - Building External Financial Audit Capacity (US$ M 1.03)
The introduction of SIGEF into the Central Administration demands firstly that CGE be able to
audit through the SIGEF, i.e. to determine the integrity of data and the reliability of outputs
processed in the SIGEF IT environment. Secondly, it offers an opportunity for the CGE to
accomplish its control objectives more effectively and efficiently by employing computer-assisted
audit techniques which are applied to the whole of Central Administration, while considering this
group of financial transactions as one part of the annual external financial audit. This component
is comprised of equipment support for the CGE, training in the operation of SIGEF and a
co-sourcing arrangement with a private audit firm to train them, through practice, in the use of
computer-assisted audit techniques.
Component 5 - Ensuring Organizational and Functional Support for the IFMS Approach
(US$ M .42)
Public sector financial management reform involves changes in financial administration legislation,
the organization of financial functions and how these are carried-out. The IFMS concept is
applied in the context of the overall framework for government fiscal management, which is made
up of macroeconomic forecasting and management, budget preparation and tax administration.
The IFMS must be designed and applied in a manner that facilitates the interaction of these areas.
Similarly, there are ancillary systems (those that provide only a portion of the administration of a
transaction) and linked systems (those that administer all parts of a transactions, but are
independent of SIGEF) that need to be coordinated with the development of the IFMS. The
regulatory framework must provide the control structure, account classifications and reporting
requirements - all of which are affected by and affect the development and application of the
IFMS. This framework has largely been developed, but must be put in place and fully understood
and applied. The component includes all of the support in process reengineering across the central
administration, the review of distribution of duties and their decentralization, advice to the
Ministry of Finance on IFMS, and the preparation of norms and regulations for emerging financial
administration legislation.
The project must provide the framework and voice for the IFMS approach to gain its wider
understanding and application; the component will also comprise the organization of
dissemination of the SIGEF concept and training at the highest levels of all sectors, as well as fully
documenting SIGEF developments in terms of conceptual and procedural manuals to support the
processes implied in the SIGEF approach.
Component 6 - Project Administration and Evaluation (US$ M 2.95)
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision and impact evaluation
at the different levels of the system. It comprises both the PIU expenses for financial and
procurement management and processing, as well as the cost of providing the installations for
project personnel, in addition to project coordination and quality control. Of the total PIU costs,
the financial and administrative management of the project is effectively and directly absorbed into
- 11 -



the mainstream structure of the Ministry of Finance and Economy through the 100% financing of
these functions.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Covered in part B.3.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would benefit all Ecuadorians; the capacity of the public sector entities to control and
disclose their performance would specifically benefit all users of public services, taxpayers, elected
officials and stakeholders in general. The direct beneficiaries are the entities that will implement
SIGEF and use its output to manage their affairs. In the national government these would be the
Central Administration, subordinate entities and autonomous entities, but not state enterprises.
The local governments that implement SIGEF would benefit directly from the strengthening of the
local capacity to manage finances and demonstrate their transparency and financial management
capacity to expand resources under their responsibility. MEF would be better informed about the
general government sector in Ecuador as sub-national governments present more complete,
accurate and reliable financial reports. Creditors of the state should benefit from these
improvements over both the uses of funding and from improved information on the general
financial position of the public sector.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period - 3.0 years
Executing agencies. The Project Implementing Unit, which was created by Ministerial Resolution
No 098 of April 5, 2001, reports to the Under Secretary of Finances in MEF and coordinates its
work with the Public Finance System Coordinating Unit. This Unit will carry out the project in
accordance with an operational manual which is satisfactory to IBRD. Key instruments for the
execution of the project would be: (i) annual operating plans to be used by both the PIU in the
MEF, Contraloria and AME in their respective participation in the execution of the project, and
(ii) institutional strengthening agreements that would bind all agencies and key municipalities to
the obtaining of agreed upon results with respect to the implementation of SIGEF. The
Contraloria General del Estado (CGE) will carry out the execution of the Contraloria component,
under the supervision of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and under terms and conditions
which are to be approved by IBRD.
Project Coordination. Project coordination is the responsibility of the PIU located in the MEF,
and will coordinate its activities with the Directors-General within the MEF (Budget, Accounting,
Treasury and Public Credit) and with the Contralor, as regarding Component 4. The project
would use an operational manual that covers all aspects of project implementation, including but
not limited to organizational and management structures, supervision and evaluation mechanisms.
While CGE will execute the Contraloria component and many departments in the general
government sector will participate in implementation, all administration of the project will be
carried out directly by the PIU in the MEF.
- 12 -



Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and consultant services would be carried out in
accordance with IBRD's Guidelines for Procurement (dated January 1995, revised January and
August, 1996, September 1997 and January, 1999), and with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999), as well as
with the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement. These procedures would be detailed in
Table A of Annex 6 of the PAD. The supervision of procurement and hiring processes would be
the responsibility of the Project Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The specific
procedures would be detailed in the Operational Manual and would include the use of Standard
Bidding Documents, previously approved by IBRD for each procurement method to be used.
Accounting and Financial Reports. The administrative arrangements and organizational
structure of the administrative area for this operation within the PIU in MEF are identical to those
successfully utilized in the PIU within CONAM for the implementation of MOSTA Credit
3822-EC. The arranagements comprise an organizational structure of an Administrative Manager
who will oversee accounting and treasury operations, 2 staff, and procurement, with 2 staff
members. For the purposes of carrying out the project, a Special Account, in US Dollars, would
be opened and maintained at the Central Bank of Ecuador on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IBRD. Deposits into and replenishments of the special account, up to the authorized allocations
set out in the Disbursement Letter, would be made on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals
(Form 1903) accompanied by supporting and other documentation as specified in the
Disbursement Handbook. Additionally, the Project Unit would produce quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports. The Financial Management Specialist for Ecuador conducted a review of
the accounting, controls over disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting, as well as the
level of administrative staff in the PIU; the report appears in Annex 6.
Audit Arrangements. An independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IBRD, would be
hired to perform annual audits of the project. All the transactions are carried out by the PIU in the
MEF, where all records would be maintained and documentary support would be kept. IBRD
Guidelines would be used by the external auditors. Audit reports would be presented to IBRD no
later than six months after the closing date of the previous fiscal year. The MOSTA project, which
contained the predecessor component, complied fully with Bank audit requirements.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Monitoring of project execution would be
undertaken by the PIU. The Bank would participate in monitoring project implementation through
periodic supervision missions. The PIU would provide the Bank with an annual work plan no later
than October 31st of the preceding year, starting in 2002. The PIU would provide the Bank with
the 2002 work plan as a condition of effectiveness. Semi-annual reviews of the project would be
carried out, the first not later than February 28 of each year, and the second not later than August
31 st, starting in 2003. A mid-term review would be conducted by August 2003 to assess progress
towards meeting agreed targets and to identify additional technical support as needed.
Semi-annual progress reports would be presented to the bank no later than 30 days after the
conclusion of each calendar semester, starting in 2002.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
i) To develop a new system under the SIMAFAL conceptual approach which has been applied by
Bolivia, Guatemala and other countries in the region. Recent practice in IFMSs has supported the
centralization of all accounting and treasury operations into units of the Ministry of Finance. They
are given automated controls over budget and effectively change the role of the line ministry
financial personnel from recording and effecting transactions to that of analysis and interpretation
of the reports generated by the centralized system. SIGEF runs physically in the line ministries and
public sector entities. It was designed to delegate responsibilities over the use of their budgeted
resources to the executing agencies that are accountable for their results. This concentration could
add efficiency in producing consolidated information, simplify cash concentration and relieve the
entities of the accounting and treasury responsibilities; however, it would raise objections from the
very community SIGEF intends to benefit: the public sector entities. Similarly, an analysis of how
SIGEF contributes to the three outcomes of public sector management indicates that its approach,
combined with the use of the current Treasury operations, does support all three outcomes:
macro-economic stability, aligning budget resources with government's strategic priorities and
achieving economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds. As such, any delay in
deploying this tool, by investing in a fundamental redesigning, would add little to the outcomes
and obstruct the attainment of reliable and timely reporting on public sector financial operations.
In any case, the conversion to a Web-based version will provide the means to centralize
processing.
ii) To incorporate procurement into the design. The Government plans for procurement reform,
which were elaborated in conjunction with the Bank and are described in the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR-2000), include, among other actions: i. the review,
aiming at consolidating, the existing laws and regulations; ii. the creation of an agency whose
terms reference would comprise policy formulation, updating of regulations, providing for and
coordinate the implementation of a system for electronic procurement, records administration,
staff training programs and accreditation and, possibly, including a dispute resolution mechanism
for procurement; iii. the formulation and gradual implementation of government electronic
procurement. Since the CPAR there have been initiatives in consolidating procurement laws
(codification of the public procurement law, Feb 2001) as well as the discussion of related issues
in the civil society (USAID sponsored studies and discussions carried out by the Civic
Commission for the Control of Corruption, report of Dec. 2001). However, a more vigorous
pursuit of procurement reform suffered from the absence of an agency of the Government with a
clear mandate to promote, coordinate and implement procurement reforms. To fill this gap the
Government, with the assistance of the InterAmerican Development Bank, is carrying out studies
for the creation of a Provisional Secretariat under the General Secretariat of the Presidency, which
will be in charge of procurement reform. It is expected that these studies will be completed in
May 2002 and that the Provisional Secretariat will be created after that. In the preparation of the
Public Sector Financial Management Project the Bank proposed to the General Secretariat a
component of $ 500,000 to provide resources for technical assistance for the creation and initial
functioning of the Provisional Secretariat as well as for the hiring of consultants to assist in the
- 14 -



review of procurement legislation in order to propose a detailed plan of action for the
consolidation and modernization of legislation, devising a detailed plan for the implementation of
electronic procurement which would include the passing of enabling legislation to allow for the
Government to start the implementation of electronic procurement, and the implementation of the
first stages of this plan (aimed at having as a minimum a web page for the advertising of the
Government procurement). The General Secretariat concluded, however, that this component
overlapped with the IDB undertaking and declined to include the component.
iii) Limit the application of SIGEF to national government entities. While there are advantages to
developing a new customized system for municipalities the costs and delay implied could be
avoided by supporting the implementation of SIGEF in large municipalities and installed a
modified version in the smaller municipalities. There are, however, enormous benefits in providing
the sub-national governments with a standard system whose reliability, compliance and support
are guaranteed by the agency responsible for public sector financial management (the Ministry of
Finance). Furthermore, SIGEF, through experience with its application in the municipality of
Quito, has been proven to be useful and applicable to municipalities. The project will support the
installation of SIGEF in all large municipalities, representing 67% of total municipal expenditures
and a simpler version for smaller municipalities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).Bank projects - MOSTA (ICR in progress). In 1994 the Bank approved
an operation (MOSTA project Loan No 3822) which supported the GOE's modernization
strategy. One pillar of this was the strengthening of controls over public finances while
decentralizing certain key financial management responsibilities. The accomplishments of the
Public Financial Management and Control component that are pertinent to budgeting, accounting
and treasury as presented in the draft ICR are as follows:
a) Budget and Treasury system. Although the mid-term budget process has not yet been
applied, the other objectives of this sub-component have been largely achieved. This means that
an integrated structure is now being employed, a system of budget execution has been developed
and is now operating and being applied through the cash management and disbursement program
which is concentrated in the National Treasury. The budget control tool (a module of SIGEF I)
has likewise been installed and is functioning in the central ministries, covering 84% of Central
Administration expenditures.
b) Accounting. The Ministry of Finance is now responsible for setting financial administration
regulations. Within the central offices of the Ministries the project has developed and deployed an
integrated accounting system, with Treasury and Budget controls based on a uniform plan of
accounts.
The conclusion of the Integrated Financial Management System (SIGEF) sub-component of the
MOSTA project, as reflected in the review by the Bank IT consultant Vicente Lopez, may be
summarized as follows:
- 15-



SIGEF Institutional has been installed and is operating in 82 Administrative Units, serving 650
users; the SIGEF Treasury and SIGEF GLOBAL (budgeting module) are also operating. The
system has user documentation and is supported by a centralized HELP unit. SIGEF's approach
has now been applied to 84% of central administration's public expenditure; it can and should be
applied to the entire public sector.
One vital product of SIGEF GLOBAL is that the consolidation of budget execution and
accounting. This, however, was not completed in MOSTA, since staffing planned for this was
reassigned to assist with the development of the 2001 Pro Forma. The related modules are to be
completed under the PPF of the proposed operation and supported throughout the project.
In the summary (PDO and Implementation Progress) and other ratings, the project was rated as
satisfactory.
Bank Projects- Ecuador SAL
This operation supports structural reforms in three areas: public sector, financial sector, and social
sector. The public sector reforms include the modernization of financial management. The
proposed PSFM TA loan was developed under the principles supported in the SAL; it will
support decentralization of financial management, extend SIGEF throughout the general
government sector, ensure its operational efficiency and enhance the technological base for
SIGEF. The SAL's conditions include the passage of the financial administration reform laws
which support the implementation of SIGEF and strengthen MEF's overseeing of public sector
financial management.
Other Development Agencies (IDB-planned)
IDB is preparing two operations to support Public Sector Financial Management: the Institutional
Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance and an operation to support decentralization. The MEF
Institutional Strengthening objectives support the consolidation of the fiscal sector in Ecuador
through improvements in the Public Investment System which complement the strengths in the
Financial Management System to be enhanced by the proposed operation. The development of the
concept of SIGEF II considered the scope of the Public Investment component of the MEF
Institutional Strengthening so that no overlap would exist in the design of the projects. The
Decentralization Operation components have not yet been decided but they will support the
development of institutional capacity in sub-national governments, extending perhaps to financial
management capacity. Co-ordination between the two operations in sub-national governments
will be monitored by MEF.
- 16-



r  |  | Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                   Project               (PSR) Ratings
l  ____________                  __________               (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                             Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Public Sector Management Adjustment Moderization of the State TA  S        S
Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A. International Lessons
The project design reflects the lessons learned from experiences in developing and implementing
Integrated Financial Management Systems in the region. It also seeks to keep its ends in focus
while adapting to local demands, assigning high priority to early outputs, which impact on
transparency in the Ecuadorian Public Sector.
The key lessons in the region (Integrated Financial Management in Latin America as of 1995,
Implementing Integrated Financial Management Systems as Institutional Reform and The Case
of Guatemala 's SIAF) and how they have been considered may be summarized as follows:
1) The implementation of an IFMS must result in more efficient, effective and economic
government financial management. Results count; benefits should be shown early and publicized.
The proposed operation is driven by the goals of presenting line management and central
authorities with the tools for infonned decision making which would contribute to efficiency,
effectiveness and economy. The operation's first priority is to replace the missing links in the first
IFMS operation systems, so that concrete a comprehensive budget and financial statements will be
available in the first year.
2) The active support and leadership of top government officials and politicians is crucial to
carrying out reforms and providing the appropriate legal framework.
The Minister of Economy and Finance has assigned the highest priority to this undertaking. He
has also provided leadership within the Government, in addition to necessary logistical support,
coordination and human resources. The supporting legal framework will be provided by
legislation which is now ready for Congress. The implementation of the Project's products is
supported by conditions of the SAL.
3) Technical leadership at various levels, effective project management and coordination must be
kept in place. Building an ever-expanding range of MEF-linked technical personnel, with the
requisite technical skills to handle change and deal with the new paradigm, is also required.
- 17-



The Project Unit has been established and is adequately staffed. The MEF has a coordinating unit,
and the line ministries have over 600 staff working with the products and advancing
implementation. The operation will consider an International Consultant in the conceptual area to
support the attainment of goals.
4) Prior to implementation, a sector-wide strategy that is definite, integrated, interrelated and
interactive needs to be developed.
The Government's strategy for modernization of the public sector contains the elements of
financial management in the general government sector and the legal framework for financial
administration. The proposed operation supports the implementation of the necessary tools to
support this strategy.
B. Lessons from the SIGEF component of MOSTA
Information Technology lessons from the first operation arose in the following areas:
Client Server. The current version of the IFMS was developed in Client Server, which was
appropriate for major spending centers in the general government sector and was well supported
by the tools available at the time. The proposed operation will develop a version to run on
Web-based technologies, which will permit real-time processing of consolidated information and
extend coverage to virtually all administrative units.
System Documentation. The quality control review underway in the PPF has highlighted the
need to improve system and user documentation. Quality assurance procedures are being
considered in the proposed operation in order to address this situation.
Outsourcing of development. No development was outsourced during the first operation. The
proposed operation plans to outsource the development of major applications to private sector
suppliers with specific experience, where available.
In the conceptual area, the following was considered in the design of SIGEF 11:
Conceptual leadership. The importance of having world class expertise in the conceptual area of
the IFMS project will be addressed by including an international consultant to support the
consolidation of the IFMS approach.
Consolidation of information. The critical importance of providing consolidated information is
addressed first, in order of progress of the new operation. Consideration of the needs of all users,
including the preparation of the IMF reports on Government Financial Statistics and sector
reports, will also be addressed in the first year of the project.
- 18-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's priorities expressed in the update to the CAS, and those reflected in the SAL,
support their commitment to this specific area. The MEF has created a unit to coordinate with the
PIU. Staff in MEF's mainstream departments have also been designated to coordinate and
implement SIGEF. In the line ministries and entities, over 600 staff are now working with SIGEF.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has acquired knowledge on issues affecting public sector reform and can draw from
worldwide experience and its comparative advantage in the areas of governance, state
modernization, rule of law, decentralization, and integrated financial management systems where
the Bank has played a catalytic role as a disseminator of information. In the region, the Bank has
led initiatives in Integrated Financial Management Systems in Argentina, Bolivia and Guatemala.
Bank staff are experienced in researching and analyzing approaches to the design and
implementation of Integrated Financial Management Systems, as well as being expert in assessing
the effectiveness of financial management in the public sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
As a technical assistance project, it does not lend itself to standard financial analysis. However,
the operation is expected to have a positive fiscal impact. The efficiency gains witnessed in other
integrated financial management projects should arise in the areas of effectiveness of management
and in the by-products of greater transparency.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The phasing out of Bank support in the on-going operations provided by the project has been
addressed by encouraging the Government to absorb 100% of the administrative costs implied in
supporting operations. These costs would be liberated upon completion of the project in order to
absorb the on-going telecommunications service costs and periodic equipment upgrades and
technical support. It is foreseen that line ministries would upkeep their capacity, given the
concrete and pertinent support they will be deriving from the project outputs.
Fiscal Impact:
See Section E 1 - Economic.
- 19-



3. Technical:
The proposed operation relies on proven technology and presently has a successful team in place.
The technology for the development components is made up of the ORACLE tools used in the
development of SIGEF INSTITUTIONAL. These have now been proven in operations over 2001
and in SIGEF GLOBAL with the preparation of the 2002 Pro Forma. The Web conversion will
employ the approach used by Applications Service Providers with proven Gateway tools. The
team of conceptual and informatics consultants proposed for the project has participated in the
MOSTA components of the Public Financial Management and Control Program, of which the
Budget System, Government Accounting and Treasury products were all considered highly
satisfactory in the draft ICR. The Project will consider all the experience of other IFMS projects
in the region where the emerging tools are being applied, notably Bolivia and, more recently,
Nicaragua.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will provide the administration, supervision, and guidance
for all components of the project. It will carry out the execution of the consolidation and
expansion of coverage, and the conversion to real-time processing components in cooperation
with the line ministries and sub-national governments. In the latter case, it will be supported by
the AME and CONCOPE. The audit component will be executed under the CGR, supported by
the PIU in MEF.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Implementing Unit that reports to the Vice Minister of Finance will provide both the
overall co-ordination of all project components and will interface with CGR and beneficiaries,
providing routine management in the execution of all components, from the CGR through to the
audit technical coordinator in the PIU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the procurement capacity of the Project Implementing Unit was carried out by a
Bank's Procurement Specialist. Conclusions of this assessment are shown in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial management capacity for the Project Implementing Unit was
carried out by a Bank's Financial Management Specialist. Conclusions of this assessment are
shown in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
- 20 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Accountable and transparent governance is directly targeted by the project through improved
financial reporting at all levels of the general government sector. Similarly, improved management
information in the spending ministries will impact on the efficiency of the delivery of services.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project creates collaboration between public sector entities, in that it is the Ministry of
Finance's endorsement and continuation of a CONAM initiative: the MOSTA project. The rector
organizations for financial management in the public sector, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, and the Contraloria General del Estado participated in the design and implementation of
the project. The CGE has communicated its commitment to operate through SIGEF and will
encourage its application and develop their capacity to audit through SIGEF. The line ministries
of the central administration were the first beneficiaries of the SIGEF, developed under MOSTA,
and will now take full advantage of the projects products. SIGEF has incorporated critical
functions, such as payroll, and will support the line ministries in fulfilling their legal duty to report
on their operations. The sub-national governments participated in the design of the proposed
operation through the discussions between MEF and       AME. The individual sub-national
governments will participate in its implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project is a financial management systems project, therefore no collaboration with
Civil Society is necessary.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The social objectives will be achieved through improved reporting, which drives both
accountability (and thus, governance) and efficiency. The project's key indicators will monitor
progress towards improved reporting.
- 21 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The specific targets for producing comprehensive general government sector reports and external
audit opinions on comprehensive reports will serve as measurements of progress towards the
social objectives of transparency. The percentage of general government sector expenditures
processed through SIGEF will indicate progress towards efficiency and effectiveness of services.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes* No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Ministry of Finance has put SIGEF into the mainstream through its use in the preparation of
the fiscal year 2002 budget "pro forma" or estimate, its application in the Treasury as the means
to control cash resources and to report on Treasury position and movement, as well its installation
in the line ministries. The sustainability of the project is reflected in the declining share of bank
funding for consultants over the life of the project. Nevertheless, the proposed operation faces the
following risks:
(1) Delays in or failure to pass financial administration legislation committed to the Ecuador SAL
and which supports the Ministry of Finance's authority over financial management within the
entire public sector.
These provide uniformity in the accounting classifications, reporting routines and formats implied
in SIGEF. However, it has been noted that, while the definitive reform on the distribution of
authority will emanate from the passage of pending financial administration legislation, the current
arrangements enacted through the Ecuadorian Economic Transformation Law provide the
Ministry of Economy and Finance with unequivocal authority over the financial management of
- 22 -



the non-financial public sector.
One should not, however, underestimate the importance of the passage of the Organic Financial
Management Law and the Organic Control Law, which provide legislation dedicated to matters of
state financial management operations, and on the control system to be applied through internal
and external control functions. The project's risk is higher in the prevailing financial management
arrangements than it would be under the proposed legislation.
(2) Limited use of SIGEF. Effective application of SIGEF at the operating level of the Central
Administration requires real-time processing for the various operating units, which in turn
depends on the development of the telecommunications infrastructure. This development may not
keep pace with the project's timetable.
Recent advances in the supply of telecommunications services, however, is encouraging, the
construction of infrastructure by the private sector and the entry of many service providers
should ensure the availability of telecommunication to the targeted sites within the deadlines set in
the project.
(3) Sub-national governments, as well as any of the public sector autonomous entities, may use
their autonomy to resist the transparency implied in the application of SIGEF and, thus, limit or
divert its implementation by undermining its edits or its comprehensive application.
SIGEF's implementation is supported by current and proposed financial management legislation,
although sanctions for non-compliance are lacking. On the other hand, the financial administration
legislation supports the autonomy of the line ministries in addition to that of all public service
agencies. The culture of independence from and animosity towards central treasury and budget
authorities is being overcome through the results demonstrating the reliability and effectiveness of
SIGEF Institutional. Sanctions or coercion of any type would undermine the cooperative
approach that has been responsible for the success in implementing SIGEF in all of the line
ministries and the four autonomous agencies during 2001. Positive incentives include the technical
support for running the administrative systems of any entity using SIGEF, the timely and reliable
coordinating of treasury and budget operations through SIGEF and, once the public data network
is in place, economizing on hardware and processing costs.
(4) Conversion to Web-based technology means the use of new and developing tools, which are
not well supported in Ecuador and are new to the project team.In the evaluation of approaches,
weight will be assigned to the practice followed by commercial application service providers in
converting successful applications to Web versions which avoid or minimize the rewriting of these
in languages for the Web.
- 23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Failure to pass pending financial         M         Development of a strong partnership between
administration legislation.                         Reformers in the Ecuadorian Government,
Bank and other stakeholders
Lack of the Government continued interest  M        A permanent dialogue with the MEF to illustrate
in the application of IFMS approach in             the successes of the IFMS approach in the
the financial management of the general             region.
government sector.
New decentralization policies weaken      M         Ensure that the GOE and sub-national
rather than reinforce the commitment to             governments understand that access to Credit is
transparency and efficiency in Financial            predicated on an adequate financial control.
Management of the sub-national                      Emphasize donor coordination.
governments.
Telecommunications infrastructure made    N         Intensive Bank supervision for timely reaction if
available through the private sector does           conditions are not present and input from Bank
not keep pace with project                          project in preparation on improving
implementation.                                     performance in the telecommunications sector
CGE does not assign the requisite priority  M       Extreme clarity with the Implementing Agency
in its overall duties to arrive at an opinion       on the objective of the component and close
on the comprehensive financial                      supervision of progress.
statements.
From Components to Outputs
Human resources not available in  a       N         Maintain dialogue to minimize the rotation of
timely manner, and high rotation of key             Ministry personnel and maintain high technical
personnel in beneficiary entities.                  standards for staffing of financial positions in
the entities and emphasize the need to maintain
the team now in place under the PPF .
Inadequate local management in the        M         From the outset, emphasize the critical role that
entities that undertake to implement                entity management teams have in implementing
SIGEF or lack of support for SIGEF in               and using SIGEF.
these.
Unavailability of firms to undertake      M         Intensive Bank supervision for timely reaction if
contract.                                           conditions are not present.
CGE does not commit staff of appropriate  N         Intensive Bank supervision for timely reaction if
qualifications, adequate counterpart                conditions are not present.
funds.
Unavailability of a firm with requisite   N         Intensive Bank supervision for timely reaction if
skills and availability in-situ.                    conditions are not present.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
- 24 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Approval by the Bank of the final Operational Manual.
Presentation of Annual Work Plan - 2002
CGE Agreement and the AME Agreement shall been executed and delivered by the parties thereto
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the completion of the
Procurement Strengthening Action Plan.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
SIGEF shall have the Procurement Module, of the project administrative systems
operational no later than December 2002
*      SIGEF shall maintain an organizational structure of the Project Management Unit, a basis
for its function, autonomy and staffing satisfactory to the Bank composed according to Annex 11.
*      SIGEF shall prepare and furnish to the Bank on a semi-annual basis a Progress Report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, based on the progress achieved
including a detailed list of the Project's indicators.
*     Not later than six months after the Closing Date, SIGEF shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, as well as a plan for the future operation of the Project. This report shall be object of an
exchange of views with the Bank.
*      During the first semester  of every year of Project's execution SIGEF shall have
independent auditors submit a complete audit report under terms of reference approved by the
Bank.
*     By no later than October 31st of each year, until completion of the Project, SIGEF shall
furnish to the bank for its approval, an annual operating plan for the implementation of the project
during the following calendar of each year. This plan shall include: (i) main activities; (ii) a
budget estimate and costs; (iii) indicators.
*      The Borrower shall perform semiannual reviews with the Bank for each year, not later
than August 31 st and December 31 st of each year. The corresponding reports should be presented
to the Bank no later than 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar semester.
*      A mid term review should be conducted by August 31 st 2003 to assess progress towards
meeting agreed targets and to identify additional technical support as needed.
*      Implementation Agreements among participating entities and the GoE shall be signed
H. Readiness for Implementation
II 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
- 25 -



2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
rD 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Paul Edwvvin Sisk                     Ernesta M.ay                        el M. Guerrero
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country ManagerlDirector
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Key Performance    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives     Indicators                              Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:  Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Restoring and sustaining  - Consolidation of new  Government Reports  Macroeconomic stability.
macroeconomic stability  institutional framework
through improving fiscal for financial management Approved Legislation  Commitment to
and public sector     and control and improved                     transparency and the use
management.           public sector financial                      of the budget to achieve
management systems and                      positive public sector
processes.                                  outcomes.
- Meeting deficit targets
- Optimization in cash
management
- Transparency in use of
public funds
Project Development   Outcome / Impact      Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:            Indicators:
Improved effectiveness  Timely comprehensive  Quarterly MEF budget  Government's willingness
and transparency in   budget and financial  execution reports and  and capacity to
financial management in  statements for different  financial statements.  implement MEF's
the general government  levels of the public                       priorities.
sector.               sector.
Contribute to better  Opinions of the Auditor  Reports on the CGR and Interest of the CGR in
governance through    General ( CGR) on the  the quality assessment of assigning priority
greater transparency  comprehensive reports of these in Bank       necessary to arrive at an
attained by the       the general government  evaluations.         opinion on the
independent verification  sector                                   comprehensive reports.
of integrity of
governments financial
reporting.
- 27 -



KeyPerformance     Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives     Indicators            .                 Critical Assumptions
Output from each      Output Indicators:     Project reports:      (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
General: Supervision  Passage of Financial
missions, review of   Management Legislation.
requests for Bank
no-objections and review
of MEF reports
Government continued
1. Full complement of  1. Application of all  1. Coverage of      interest in the application
IFMS subsystems running financial management  administrative units and  of IFMS approach in the
and the general       sub-systems in SIGEF   entities the general  financial management of
government sector     with the corresponding  government sector    the general government
consolidation process  consolidation of reports  running SIGEF.    sector.
fully operational.    on the general
government sector.
2. SIGEF capturing    2. Percenage of General 2.  Review of        New decentralization
90% of all transactions in government sector  consolidation process in  policies reinforce - and
the Central           operations processed in  MEF for the Central  not weaken- the
Administration, and    SIGEF:                Administration and for  commitment to
running in at least 35 of  90% of the Centarl  the sub-national    transparency and
the 50 major          Admin by 2003          governments to        efficiency in financial
municipalities.       62% of Municipal by    determine % of reports  management of the
2004.                 from spending agencies  sub-national
that are generated in  governments.
SIGEF.
3. SIGEF available in  3. User access to    3. Periodic review of  Telecommunication
Web based technology   SIGEF through the     progress by Bank      infrastructure made
and accessible through  Internet. Stakeholder                      available through the
the public data network.  access to public sector                  private sector to keep
financial reports through                    pace with project
the Internet.                               implementation
4. Independent        4. Publication of an   4. Periodic review of  CGE assigns the requisite
verification of Treasury  opinion by the CGE on  progress by Bank  priority in its overall
Statements and        the Treasury and Central                     duties to arriving at any
Consolidated Budget and Administration Financial                   opinion in the
Financial Statements of  Statements.                               comprehensive financial
the General Government                                             statements.
Sector
- 28 -



Key Performance    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives     Indicators          .                  Critical Assumptions
Project Components /  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:  (from Components to
Sub-components:       component)                                  Outputs)
I. Consolidation of   US$ M 3.19            Disbursement Report and *  Human resources
SIGEF                                       semi-annual progress  available in a timely
reports.              manner.
*   Low rotation of key
personnel.
* Medium to high
commitment by mayors.
1. 1 Complete suite of  1I.1 Number of Modules
modules.              in Use
1.2 Complete and      Production of timely
consolidation application consolidated statements
1.3 User Support      Number of Entities using
SIGEF:
Provincial Branch
Offices: 49 in 2002, 83 by
2003
1.4 Rector unit capacity  Number of Entities using
building in IFMS      SIGEF
concepts and application
1.5 Implementation in  1.5 Percentage of Central                  Adequate local
Central Administration  Administration                            management in the
entities below the    transactions processed in                   entities that undertake to
Ministerial office level  SIFEG: 90% by 2003                      implement SIGEF.
II Expansion of Coverage US$ M 6.58
SIGEF Institutional
2.1 Implementation in  2.1 Number of entities
Autonomous and        with SIGEF:
Dependent agencies.   Affliated Entities: 3 by
2002, 7 by 2003,
Autonomous Entities: 4
by 2002, 8 by 2003 and
10 by 2004
2.2 Implementation in  2.2 Percentage of                          Continued support in
sub-national governments municipal expenditures                   entities for Financial
consolidated and reporte:                   Management policies of
25% by 2002, 50% by                         Ministry of Finance.
2003, 62% by 2004
III. Upgrade SIGEF's  US $ M 4.53
- 29 -



Technological Base
3.1 Convert system to  Availability of web                        Availability of firms to
Web based technology  version                                     undertake contract
3.2 Complete design for  Availability of public data
real -time connections  network
and contract services
IV. Develop External  US$ M 1.03
Financial Audit Capacity
in the CGE.
4.1 Equip CGE for     Implementation of SIGEF                     CGE commits staff of
on-line access to SIGEF  in CGE                                   appropriate
processing.                                                       qualifications, adequate
counterpart funds.
4.2 Train CGE in SIGEF Audit opinion on
comprehensive reports:
Treasury of 2002 in 2003
Central Government
Budget and Financial
Statement of 2003 in
2004
4.3 Work with         Application of CATT in                      Availability of a firm with
co-sourcing to apply  government audits.                         requisite skills and
CAAT to financial audits                                          availability in-situ
of comprehensive
statements.
V. Ensure             US$ M .42
organizational and
functional support for
IFMS approach.
5.1 Advice to MEF     SIGEF conceptual                            Government continued
documentation approved                     interest in the application
5.2 Preparation of                                              of IFMS approach in the
Regulations            Regulations issued                        financial management of
the general government
sector
VI Project Administration
and Evaluation.       US $ M 2.95
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
It is recognized that good governance is essential to development; accountability (legal, political,
and financial) as a key element of good governance compels a state to focus on results and report
on its performance. Corruption is a symptom of poor governance; Ecuador recognizes the
problem of corruption in the public sector and has given high priority to combating corruption.
Accountability, which combats corruption, is only possible with transparency in the financial
operations of the government. Since the early 1990's, successive administrations have worked to
modernize public expenditure control and accountability in resource management. On the basis of
the 1992 Public Budget Law and the 1993 Modernization of the State (MOS) Law the
authorities have been developing modern systems for the management and control of public
finances. They have recently drafted two new pieces of key enabling legislation in this area: the
Public Finance Control Law (Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalizacion y Auditoria), which has been
awaiting debate in Congress since February 2000; and the Public Financial Management Law (Ley
Organica de Gestion Financiera del Estado), which is yet to be submitted to Congress. The
Control Law will end the ex-ante control by the Auditor-General (Contraloria General del
Estado-CGE) and will eliminate the functional duplication of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the CGE on the issuance of accounting standards. The law makes each entity
responsible for its internal control and places accounting standard setting under the joint
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the CGE. The Financial Management
Law, on the other hand, will apply the principle of centralized standard setting and decentralized
operations, enabling the various agencies to assume direct responsibility for their own institutional
financial management. The Law will set principals and methods to regulate the public sector
financial management system, the programming and execution of public investment, as well as
establishing fiscal policy standards. The Government views modernization of public financial
management as crucial to aligning expenditure more closely with policy priorities; in particular, in
managing expenditure within social and poverty reduction programs, something which is reflected
in the Structural Adjustment Loan.
The proposed operation supports the Government's program to modernize public sector financial
management. This loan supports: (a) improvement of the institutional framework for expenditure
management, (b) decentralization of the budget function, and (c) improvement of expenditure
control - specifically advancing the implementation of the recently developed Integrated Financial
Management System (Sistema Integrado de Gestion Financiera-SIGEF). Specifically, it would (i)
consolidate reforns in financial management and control, (ii) install and fully implement an
integrated financial management system, and (iii) develop and strengthen the CGE's audit
capacity.
The project will help Ecuador address the weak administrative capacity of the public sector and
improve governance at both national and sub-national levels. Country performance in these areas,
which are considered high priorities by both the Government and the Bank, has been poor. SIGEF
will provide the timely, reliable and relevant financial information, which is an indispensable
element of strong administrative capacity. The paucity of information for decision making is
acutely felt in line ministries, as well as in the area of control. Here, efforts are dissipated in
looking at the different parts of the public sector, since no reliable, comprehensive information
- 31 -



allows for risk evaluation or control review planning for the system as a whole. SIGEF, through
ex-post analysis performed by the MEF Sector Analyst of the SIGEF Institutional reports, will
provide the means to verify that the use of funds by individual administrative units is in line with
authorized Budget uses and the cash programs approved by the Treasury. SIGEF will also
provide the means to record and report any non-treasury revenues and their uses at spending
agency level.
The project contributes to transparency by developing financial control and reporting capacity, as
well as by contributing to the capacity for independent verification of the integrity of the
government reports by the Supreme Audit Institution (Contraloria). In what particularly concerns
transparency in the public sector, by applying the IFMS approach to as much of the public sector
as is practical, the operation will support the preparation of timely, comprehensive and reliable
financial reports and, by capacity building in the Contraloria, independent verification will be
provided on the government's reports. For management information, the implementation of the
complete suite of SIGEF applications will ensure that all of an entity's information is processed
and available in real time. The sub-national governments will have an instrument that ensures their
compliance with the legislative requirements on financial administration reporting, provides them
with the necessary operating information and permits the MEF to compile comprehensive general
government sector reports and establishs the financial position of the overall public sector.
SIGEF is now used at 3 levels in the Central Government: (i) SIGEF Institutional - in most
spending agencies to control budget execution, perform treasury ledger accounting, and for cash
management, ii) SIGEF Global- in the MEF Sub-Secretary of Budgets to track approved budgets
and changes to these, and iii) SIGEF Treasury - in the MEF Sub-Secretary of Treasury for the
preparation of Treasury statements (sources and application of funds) and to control monthly cash
programming. While SIFEG is an effective tool for financial management its implementation and
effective application in the targeted-, and indeed minimum-, scope public sector entities is yet to
be carried-out. SIGEF 's array of applications and its coverage of final external transactions are
yet to be completed and processed. Its edits must be extended down through the 22 central
administrative entities where it is now operating, and the capacity to consolidate information
within sectors, as well as for the entire central administration, must be fully completed and
applied. In its current state, Ecuador's public sector does not furnish stakeholders with the
transparency of their operations (a requisite in the process of accountability). Of equal relevance
to two of the expected outcomes of effective public sector expenditure management (assigning
resources to strategic goals and achieving efficiency, economy and effectiveness) is the paucity of
financial information available to line ministries. Lastly, the feeble state of financial management at
the sub-national government level, for decision making and for reporting of fund use, underrnines
both the reporting on the general govenmment sector and the capacity of these entities to absorb
the functions which may be marked for decentralization. In addressing these concems, the
proposed operation chose to complete and leverage the current system. Thus, it would achieve its
impact goals within the first year and then move on to the adoption of more sophisticated tools
and ICT environments.
- 32 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.19 million
Consolidation of SIGEF I
Foremost in outputs is the culmination of the SIGEF IFMS tool, which is already running its core
subsystems in the central offices of all the ministries. However, it provides neither the means for
effective consolidation of incurred budget expenditure and the financial position for the central
authorities of any sector, nor does it yet provide the spending ministries with the full complement
of its ancillary systems (the management information module is not parameterized in most
agencies and the inventory module has not been implemented).
This component is comprised of the following sub-components:
i)    Completion of the programming, testing and implementation of SIGEF GLOBAL.
Given the mandate to provide operational decentralization, SIGEF recognizes the autonomy
of each Administrative Unit and supports this with separate budget and accounting records.
However, these must be consolidated by Institution and Sector, as well as for the central
government administration, and, eventually, for the general government sector. SIGEF GLOBAL
will provide the means for consolidation. The component relates to all activities in developing
consolidation applications and supporting users in the submission of these reports. SIGEF output
files for consolidation may be set to report at different levels of budget aggregation: from the
most detailed (i.e. item and expense classification within activity) to totals by group within each
activity. The approach set by MEF for the 2001 consolidation was to aggregate by group, so as
not to appear to encroach upon the line ministries' operational independence. The outputs for
2002 will be modified to meet the consolidation reporting demands, which may include
consolidation by item.
ii)   Completion of the implementation support in Central Ministries for all modules.
Key SIGEF modules are yet to be implemented; user support in use of core subsystems must
intensify to achieve the acceptance, sustained use and full benefit of the tool. The sub-component
will comprise user support, training in the effective use of core and ancillary subsystems, and
on-going support to central administration installations.
iii) The provincial offices of the line ministries.
These transactions represent a significant portion of social sector spending, although much of
it is booked against budget on the strength of transfer requests or on the strength of
documentation rendered long after the fact. These units are given the same administrative capacity
as the central ministries and, as such, transactions originating at the provincial level will be
processed with all the edits offered by SIGEF and those available for consolidation at any level.
- 33 -



Project Component 2 - US$6.58 million
Expansion of Coverage: SIGEF Institutional
SIGEF is in use at the central offices of all the line ministries and must now cascade down through
the public sector to the following levels:
i) Autonomous bodies and entities affiliated with line ministries (IESS, Universities). These
represent the significant uses of public funds and are the providers of key services that can be
executed efficiently only where effective financial management is in place. Reengineering of
processes, followed by implementation of the systems, are the sub-components activities.
ii) The objective of this sub-component is to support financial management within the
municipalities. At the individual level, this would be through the attainment of the basic outcomes
of public expenditure management, with respect to the performance of the municipality. At the
joint level, this would be through contributing to these outcomes in the general government sector
by providing the central authorities, and all interested parties, with timely, reliable reports on the
use of public sector resources and the financial position of the sub-national sector.
A three pronged approach for the improvement of financial management within the municipalities
has evolved from the analysis of the existing state of compliance with financial administration
legislation, the strengths of the municipalities and the objectives set out under this component.
The broad range of size and capacity in the 215 municipalities in Ecuador is such that 51 largest
municipalities represent 66% of the use of resources, the next 63 amounting to 20%, while the
last 101 municipalities represent only 14%.
This sub-component is divided into three areas. The first is the developing of standard formats for
the submission of budget and accounting reports that are independent of the system in which they
are generated, thus offering the consolidation of the sub-national sector through the General
Accounting Office in MEF. Next is the installation of SIGEF in 35 of the 51 largest municipalities
where a system upgrade would be advantageous and is requested by the municipality. The Project
will develope a version of SIGEF Institutional for smaller municipalities and develope procedures
for the conversion of outputs to permit their aggregation and subsequent consolidation by SIGEF
Global.
The outputs and performance indicators applicable to the sub-component are the percentages of
municipal resources reported to MEF on time and which are included in the periodic aggregation
and consolidation report.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.53 million
Upgrade of SIGEF's Technological Base
The output sought in this component is to keep SIGEF current and viable, taking advantage of the
rapid technological changes which the IT and the telecommunications industries are undergoing.
- 34 -



This will be achieved through the establishment of a public data network and by converting
selected SIGEF services to web-based technology.
Public Data Network: The maintenance and support of the distributed databases is greatly
facilitated and made economical through a real-time connection with the SIGEF technical support
unit. Updates of new versions and user support in informatics demand constant communication
between the Administrative Units and the SIGEF support unit. These will be greatly enhanced by
real-time communications, as will the periodic transmission of results and daily requests for funds
between the units and the Treasury, and infornation on the movement in the T accounts of the
executing units. This capacity will also permit the centralization of processing: either in a client
server arrangement for the line ministries in Quito, or in 3 tiers - as the appropriate versions are
available. Hence, equipment investment and the quality and timeliness of the financial information
would be optimized. The provision of telecommunications capacity in MEF, and the connection to
a MEF Web site via Internet, will facilitate access to public sector financial information by the
widest possible audience.
Conversion to Web based technology: The client-server architecture of SIGEF does not facilitate
its extension to all the entities with budget autonomy, of which there are approximately 3000. If
the autonomy of these units is to be supported and their administration rendered efficient and
integrated with other similar units, then their transactions must be processed by a reliable system
that ensures the integrity of data and the reliability of its results, which may be made available to
designated users in real time. This component will develop a Web-based SIGEF to run centrally in
MEF, or in some host provider, and will permit use by any unit with access to the Public Data
Network.
Timing for completion of the two components is intertwined with and dependent on upgrades of
telecommunication capacity by the communications service providers. The conversion to a
Web-based version of SIGEF will begin with the incorporation of accounting entities not currently
running SIGEF. The version will be available by July 2003 and this will be preceded by the
development of a public data network. The use of the public data network will coincide with the
installation of the necessary equipment and the hiring of the external communications services.
The Quito entities of the Central Government will have access to the public data network by the
end of 2002, as will the Provincial Offices which are currently running SIGEF. The balance of the
central government will be able to come aboard as they install the current client server SIGEF and
communication services expand to the respective accounting entity. Three hundred and thirty-five
(335) points, comprising 85% of the central government administration expenditures, will be
connected by the end of 2002. All accounting entities with access to the Public Data Network will
also have access to the network and be able to process through SIGEF once the Web version is
available (July 20003).
Project Component 4 - US$1.03 million
The introduction of SIGEF into the Central Administration demands, firstly, that CGE be able to
audit through the SIGEF, i.e. to determine the integrity of data and the reliability of outputs
processed in the SIGEF IT environment. Secondly, it offers an opportunity for the CGE to
accomplish its control objectives more effectively and efficiently by employing computer-assisted
audit techniques which are applied to the whole of Central Administration, while considering this
- 35 -



group of financial transactions as one part of the annual external financial audit. This component
comprises equipment support for the CGE, training in the operation of SIGEF and a co-sourcing
arrangement with a private audit firm to train auditors, through practice, in the use of
computer-assisted audit techniques.
Project Component 5 - US$0.42 million
Ensuring Organizational and Functional Support for the IFMS Approach
Public sector financial management reform involves changes in financial administration legislation,
the organization of financial functions and how these are carried-out. The IFMS concept is
applied in the context of the overall framework for government fiscal management, which is made
up of macroeconomic forecasting and management, budget preparation and tax administration.
The IFMS must be designed and applied in a manner that facilitates the interaction of these areas.
Similarly, there are ancillary systems (those that provide only a portion of the administration of a
transaction) and linked systems (those that administer all parts of a transactions, but are
independent of SIGEF) that need to be coordinated with the development of the IFMS. The
regulatory framework must provide the control structure, account classifications and reporting
requirements - all of which are affected by and affect the development and application of the
IFMS. This framework has largely been developed, but must be put in place and fully understood
and applied. The component includes all of the support in process reengineering across the central
administration, the review of distribution of duties and their decentralization, advice to the
Ministry of Finance on IFMS, and the preparation of norms and regulations for emerging financial
administration legislation.
Project Component 6 - US$2.95 million
Project Administration and Evaluation
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision and impact evaluation
at the different levels of the system. It comprises both the PIU expenses for financial and
procurement management and processing, as well as the cost of providing the installations for
project personnel, in addition to project coordination and quality control. Of the total PIU costs,
the financial and administrative management of the project is effectively and directly absorbed into
the mainstream structure of the Ministry of Finance and Economy through the 100% financing of
these functions.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million   US $million
Consolidation of SIGEF                                    3.19          0.00         3.19
Expansion del SIGEF                                       3.34          3.24         6.58
Upgrade of SIGEF's Technological Base                     2.87          1.66         4.53
Building External Financial Audit Capacity                0.70          0.33         1.03
Ensuring Organizational and Funcional Support for SIGEF   0.28          0.14         0.42
Project Administration                                    2.88          0.07         2.95
Total Baseline Cost                                       13.26         5.44        18.70
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'             13.26         5.44         18.70
Front-end fee                    0.14          0.14
Total Financing Required              13.26         5.58         18.84
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       1.64          5.17          6.81
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    6.22          0.27          6.49
Training                                                    0.68          0.00          0.68
Operating Costs                                             3.20          0.00          3.20
PPF                                                         1.52          0.00          1.52
Total Project Costs     13.26           5.44        18.70
Front-end fee                    0.14          0.14
Total Financing Required     13.26          5.58         18.84
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$ni) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 18.84 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 73.57% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Proiect Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$M 18.84, of which US$M 13.86 would be financed
by the IBRD and US$M 4.98 would be financed by the Borrower.
Proiect Benefits. As a technical assistance project it does not lend itself to standard financial analysis;
however, the operation is expected to have a postive fiscal impact. Efficiency gains will arise from the
more reliable and timely management information on budget execution at the spending unit level and on
financial position of the Central Government at the level of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Gains
will also accrue from the transparency in the financial operations of the government through greater
access to credit and wider confidence in the administration of public funds.
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          7.7       4.8       3.8        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.1       1.1       1.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         8.8       5.9       5.1       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Front-end fee    0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             8.9       5.9       5.1        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  7.2       4.3       2.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                1.8       1.6       1.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               1.8        1.6       1.6       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    9.0        5.9       3.9       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
| Year I     Year2 2   Year3  I Year4   I Year5    | Year6 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Government               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 39 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Procurement
All procurement of goods and works under the Project would be carried out in accordance with
the "Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995
(revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be
employed in accordance with the "Guidelines- Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January and
September 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement Methods
The following paragraphs provide information on the methods to be used for procurement of
goods, hiring of consultant services and training under the Project. This information is also
summarized in Tables A, Al and B. The Project is not envisaged to finance civil works. Project
implementation will be carried out following annual implementation and procurement plans, which
in turn will be used to update the procurement processes.
Goods
The Project would finance contracts for the purchase of information equipment and software and
other with an aggregate estimated cost of US$6.81 million. Contracts for  packages of
equipment and software estimated to exceed US$200.000 equivalent per bid would be awarded
on the basis of ICB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$200.000 equivalent may
be procured under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than US$50.000 equivalent for miscellaneous equipment and consumables may be
procured following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines. (please, see Table A)
Consultant Services
The Project would finance technical assistance and capacity building to help implement the five
Project components and Project management, including PIU consultants and international experts.
Consulting firms would be selected following Quality and Cost Based Selection processes, in
accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines with one contract selected on the basis
on Least Cost in accordance with section III of the Consultant Guidelines. The procurement plan
includes six contracts to be entered with consulting firms, with an aggregate value of US$830
thousand. The rest, US$5.6 million would finance local consultants. This amount includes an
estimated US$3.0 million to finance extension of contracts of consultants with existing contracts
under the PPF. The rest will finance contracts selected according to Chapter V of the
Guidelines.(please, see Table Al)
-40 -



Operating Costs
The expenditures under this category will help finance an estimated US$ .98 million of salaries of
support staff of the PIU, utility services and consumables, US$ 553 thousand for travel expenses
and US$ 1.665 million to cover payments for transmission services- to be contracted by ICB.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A Project implementation unit- PIU- within the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be
responsible for Project implementation. The PIU will be headed by a General and a Technical
Coordinator, and will include two sub-units: budget and accounting and administration, training
and procurement. PIU's personnel, in general terms, is acquainted with Bank procedures, but
does not include in its staff a procurement specialist. Procurement management systems need also
improvement. The Borrower tentatively agreed on the following procurement strengthening plan,
including:
(a)   the appointment of a full-time procurement specialist in March 2002;
(b)   the establishment of a procurement management system for the Project, prior to December
31, 2002;
(c)   the completion of a Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to Loan
negotiations;
(d)   the completion of a detailed procurement plan for 2002, , prior to Appraisal;
(e)   the carrying out of a Project Launch Seminar, in April 2002; and
(f)   the inclusion of a procurement specialist in supervision missions, at least, once a year.
Prior Review Thresholds
All ICBs, the first two NCBs and the first two shopping taking place each year will be subject
to the Bank's prior review. In addition, prior review procedures will apply to all consulting
contracts estimated to cost more than US$100 thousand and awarded according to QCBS
procedures and all contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost more than US$50
thousand. The prior review ratio is estimated at 45%. Any contract awarded on a sole-source
basis, assignments of a critical nature and amendments raising contract values above the said
threshold would be subject to prior review.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High.
- 41 -



Frequency of Procurement Supervision in the Field
At least one every year including a procurement specialist and one mission for ex-post review
of procurement during the second year of Project implementation.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                              5.17            0.60           1.04         0.00         6.81
(4.14)          (0.48)         (0.83)        (0.00)      (5.45)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          6.49          0.00         6.49
(0.00)          (0.00)         (4.75)        (0.00)      (4.75)
4. Training                           0.00            0.00          0.68          0.00         0.68
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.40)        (0.00)      (0.40)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00             0.00          0.14          0.00         0.14
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.14)        (0.00)      (0.14)
Operating Costs                      0.00             0.00          3.20          0.00         3.20
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.92)        (0.00)      (1.92)
PPF                                  0.00             0.18           1.34         0.00         1.52
(0.00)          (0.14)         (1.06)        (0.00)      (1.20)
Total                              5.17            0.78          12.89         0.00         18.84
(4.14)           (0.62)        (9.10)        (0.00)      (13.86)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Notes: numbers in each category and method of procurement represent investment on top and Bank financing
below. Other includes: for goods US$200.000 for sole-source purchase of licences and US$ 840,000 for purchases
by shopping; US$ for training expenses which do not include trainers fees; under operating costs, US$ .98 million
for support staff in the implementation unit, utility services and consumables, US$ 553,000 for travel expenses and
US$1.665.000 to cover payments for transmision services.
-42 -



Table Al Notes
Notes: the table does not include the amount of US$1.33 milion spent to finance individual consultants at the PPF stage. The amount of US$5.6 for
individual consultants indude US$ 3 million to finance extension of contracts of consultants who already worked at the PPF stage.The rest, will financed
contracts of consulants selected under the chapter V of the Bank procurement guidelines
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection   Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category         QCBS        QBS         SFB        LCS          CQ        Other      N.B.F.    Total Cost
A. Flrms                        0.80       0.00       0.00        0.06        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.86
(0.66)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.05)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.71)
B. Individuals                 0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00       5.15        0.49         5.64
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)      (4.05)     (0.00)       (4.05)
Total     0.80        0.00       0.00       0.06        0.00        5.15       0.49         6.50
(0.66)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.05)      (0.00)      (4.05)     (0.00)       (4.76)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 43 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)             Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                       >200                   ICB                     All
<200                   NCB                     First 2
<50                    Shopping             First 2 each year
3. Services
Firms                    >100                    QCBS                    All
<100                 Least Cost             Only TORs
Indivuals                 >50                 Chapter V                  All
<50                  Chapter V              Only TORs
4. Miscellaneous              .
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of three years, beginning the
last quarter of FY02 through the third quarter of FY05. The project is expected to be completed
by March 31, 2005, and the project's Closing Date is September 30, 2005.
Consulting Services include contracts with individuals and firms to carry out: (i) technical
assistance and training in development and implementation of SIGEF, (ii) development of a Web
version of SIGEF, (iii) improving the legal and conceptual framework for its operation, (iv)
development in the Contraloria and (v) project coordination and supervision. Training includes
the cost of trainers and trainees fees, rental of conferences rooms, per diem and transport of
trainees and materials and office supplies required for training activities. Operating Expenditures
include expenditures for 3 undertakings: (i) basic and general services for the project supervision
(office and equipment rental, materials and office supplies, utilities, building and equipment
maintenance), (ii) rental and services fees for the operation of the data network used for the
transmission of financial information, and (iii) transportation and per diem costs for travel by the
Project staff.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
Consulting Services                      4.75                *established each year
Training                                 0.40                       60%
Goods                                    5.45                       80%
Operating Costs and Services             1.92                *established each year
PPF                                      1.20
Total Project Costs                      13.72
Front-end fee        0.14
Total                                    13.86
* Financing percentages established each year in asfollows: Y1 95-5%o, Y2 80-20%o, Y3 60-40%
** PPFRefinancing comes to $ 1.201,400
*** Front End Fee comes to $138,600
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures under
contracts requiring prior review by IBRD and amendments to contracts raising the values of such
contracts above the prior review limits. These contracts are: (i) all contracts for goods exceeding
US$ 200,000; (ii) all consultant and services contracts directly procured by MEF with an
estimated contract amount of US$ 100,000 or more for firns and US$ 50,000 or more for
individuals.For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made against Statement of
Expenditures ( SOEs) for which supporting documents are to be held in MEF.
MEF will also prepare quarterly financial reports under the format agreed to with the
Bank. These reports would include a statement of source and application of funds, reports on the
- 45 -



advance toward outputs specified in Annex I of the PAD and a report on the execution of the
annual procurement plan.
Special account:
Bank disbursements would be made into a Special Account opened at the Central Bank of
Ecuador, in accordance with Bank requirements. Supporting documentation for all eligible
project expenditures would be maintained at SIGEF, and would be made available for review by
Bank staff and independent auditors.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT REPORT
1.    Executuve Summary
The objective of the financial management assessment was to deternine whether the entity
implementing the proposed Bank-financed project has acceptable financial management
arrangements. The assessment planning of the "Public Sector Financial Management
Project - SIGEF (P074218)", was based on the review of the Project Concept Document -
PCD, and it considered the high-risk rating of the Procurement Assessment; no CFAA was
available for input.
Proiect Financial Management Staffing and Oreanization.- A review of the organization
and staffing indicates that the project unit has adequate and qualified staff.
Post                             Name
General Coordinator              Maria Dolores Cevallos
Technical Advisor                Eudoxia Tello
Technical Coordinator            Madison Carrillo
Administrative Coordinator       Sandra Gavilanes
Financial Coordinator            Mario Gordon
Accountant                       Susana Cruz
Treasurer                        Grace Luna
Adequacv of the financial mana2ement system
a)    The Project Implementing Unit has  in  place the accounting integrated financial
management system (SIGEF), that comprises several modules that assist the accounting
department to prepare timely financial statements and record accurately the transactions
carried-out by the project. The inventory module of SIGEF is not used so an ad hoc fixed asset
control system is used in addition to SIGEF.
The Project Operational Manual is under preparation; however, the Project has in place basic
policies and procedures for the development of the Project. Only minor weaknesses in internal
control are noted and all related action deemed necessary was already taken. Overall, the
financial administration place is adequate.
- 46 -



The integrated financial management system in place combined with the organization and staffing,
the accounting policies and control procedures in place provide adequate support to operations
and control to provide reliable reporting.
b)    The predecessor project (Mosta Loan No.3822) complied fully with its audit covenants.
c)    The Project Implementing Unit agreed with the Bank to submit quarterly FMR's reports;
the format and content of the reports was agreed during Appraisal and are to be immediately
implemented.
2.    Summary Project Description
The project-implementing unit operates under the Ministry of Economy and Finance; it is a
separate administrative unit reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance.
The Proiect.- On May 15, 2001 the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(World Bank) and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, signed an Agreement-Letter (P074218)
for the preparation of the Public Sector Financial Management Project - SIGEF.
On April 5, 2001 the Project Implementing Unit was created through the Ministry of Economy
and Finance Agreement No.098. This Unit is under the Ministry of Economy and Finance, its
purpose is to continue with the process of strengthening of public finances, within the framework
of the administrative reforms that began the MOSTA Project in the Consejo Nacional de
Modernizaci6n del Estado (CONAM).
Financin2 the Proiect.- A PPF for US$1,330,500, financed by two sources of funds:
US$1,000,000 from resources of IBRD and US$330,000 from counterparts, is under execution
with an authorized allocation of US$200,000. The proposed project is estimated at US$18.8
million, US$13.86 IBRD and US$4.98 million counterpart funding.
Obiectives.- The Public Sector Financial Management Project - SIGEF (P074218) seeks the
following development objectives:
Improved effectiveness and transparency in financial management in the general
government        sector. Contribute to better governance through greater transparency
attained by the independent verification of integrity of governments financial reporting.
Pro2ress to date.- As of the date of the financial management assessment the Project has
executed 49% (US$649,669) , this amount is divided into: US$487,096 (resources from IBRD)
and US$162,573 (local counterpart).
- 47 -



3.    Country Issues
A CFAA for Ecuador has not yet been carried out, one is planned for FY 03. The CAS and
MOSTA ICR were reviewed to determine relevant financial management issues for Ecuador and
the weakness in government wide financial accountability arrangements were noted as well as the
concern of the MEF to address these through the modernization of the public sector. Specifically,
the implementation of SIGEF has improved financial management both in the entities operating
the system as well as the central authorities.
4.    Risk Analysis
The experience of the staff in managing projects, the straight forward nature of the operations and
the well developed procedures imply a low inherent and control risk rating.
5.    Strengths and weaknesses
During the financial management assessment, the accounting personnel of the Project
demonstrated their experience in managing projects financed by the World Bank, (they worked at
the "MOSTA" Project). The accounting integrated financial management system - SIGEF gives
the necessary and basic tools to generate reliable financial information (trial balance, balance
sheet, income statement, cash flow statement).
The integrated financial management system (SIGEF) issues the following financial reports: Trial
Balance, Balance Sheet, Income Statement, Cash Flow Statement, Sources and Uses of Funds
Statement, Accumulative Investment Statement (monthly). The system also generates accounting
journals and, expenditure vouchers. The system does not generate an Accumulative Investment
Statement; these will be prepared for the project through manual additions of yearly financial
statments. Furthermore it does not allow adjustments when the accounting period is already
closed; as such, manual entries are used to book any revelant adjusting entries. The following
observations did arise and the relevant actions taken where deemed necessary.
Table D
Significant Weaknesses                     Resolution
Adequate Segrezation of Functions
a) The Administrative Coordinator is in charge  a) Comment accepted, control of the
-48 -



of procurement of goods, (fixed assets, as web  fixed asset sub ledger will be carried out
of inventories), furthermore he is in charge of  by the Accountant.
physical inventories and keeps the detailed
control of fixed assets.
b) The Financial Coordinator is in charge of    b) Given the size of the operation this
calculating the employees salaries and effect    weakness is accepted.
payment.
Control and Mana2e of Cash and Bank
a) The project does not carry out surprise petty  a) This policy will be included in th
cash counts.                                     operational manual.
b) The bank reconciliation is been done by      b) Comment accepted, the accountant will
Treasurer; this should be done by someone not    prepare the bank reconciliation.
responsible for custody of funds.
c) The project does not have a fidelity police for  c) This policy will be adopted by the Project.
personnel who have custody of cash.
Control and Management of Fixed Assets
a) The project does not leave any supporting    a) Comment accepted by the P1T1 and it wil
documentation of physical inventories counts.   include this policy in the operational manual
b) Comment accepted by the PIU and the
b) The Administrative Coordinator is in charge o  accountant will carry - out the fixed asse
rocurement of goods, (fixed assets, as well as o  internal control instead of the Administrative
supplies), and is in charge of physical inventories and  Coordinator.
keeping the fixed assets sub ledger.
Recognizing Expenditures
a) The accounting basis will be made
a) The project applies the accrual basis;       clear in the notes to the financial
however, expenditures are recognized when       reports.
these are paid instead of when the service is
received.
6.      Implementing Entity
The Ministry of Economy and Finance, Agreement No.098 on April 5, 2001 created the Project
Implementing Unit. This Unit is under the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and its purpose is
to continue with the process of strengthening of public finances, within the framework of the
administrative reforms, process begun by the Consejo Nacional de Modernizaci6n del Estado
through MOSTA Project.
-49 -



This Project Implementing Unit has its own budget, and is authorized to manage the human,
material and financial sources originating with disbursements from IBRD and from the Local
Counterpart. Furthermore, the project-implementing unit will coordinate, organize, plan, control
and assess the necessary procedures to strengthen and sustain the Public Sector Financial
Management Project - SIGEF.
7.    Funds Flow
The preparation of the Public Sector Financial Management Project - SIGEF has two sources of
funds: US$1,330,500 (IBRD) and US$330.5 miles (Ministry of Economy). For this purpose the
following bank accounts were opened:
*     Special Account No.234189-20540500000000 at the Ecuador Central Bank, that is
exclusively for disbursements from IBRD
*     TG Account (to manage transfers) No.01121468 opened at the Ecuador Central Bank,
which is used to manage transfers from the special account and from the local party.
*     Account No.52005000086 opened at Produbanco Bank, and is utilized to do
disbursements to suppliers.
-50 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    6                            10
First Bank mission (identification)           04/30/2001                  04/30/2001
Appraisal mission departure                   01/14/2002                  01/14/2002
Negotiations                                  02/14/2002                  02/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/31/2002
Prepared by:
Paul Sisk
Preparation assistance:
Jorge Luis Archimbaud
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality
Paul Sisk                        FMS
Luis Gazoni                      Procurement Specialist
Emilio Rodriguez                 Procurement Specialist
Jorge Luis Archimbaud            Operational Analyst
David Varela                     Sr. Legal Counsel
Ronald E. Myers                  Lead PSM Specialist
Juan Navas-Sabater               ITC Specialist
Xiomara Morel                    FMS LOA
Sandra Alborta                   Team Assistant
- 51 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP ( Operating Plan with project desription, component description with outputs and performance
indicators, detailed action plans and budgets) reference SIGEF No 057-2002
Organization Map of the Public Sector with an indication of SIGEF implementation status as of end of
2002.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment, Paul Sisk, FMS LCC6C; January 24, 2002
Procurement Capacity Assessment, Emilio Rodriguez; December 14, 2001
Implementation Completion Report- MOSTA Report No 22895
Supervision of the Implementation of SIGEF, Vicente Lopez Trueba; March, 2001
C. Other
"Implementing Integrated Financial Management Systems as Institutional Reform- The Case of
Guatemala's SIAF- Draft"; March 27, 2000, Richard Moore
Gerencia Publica en el Ecuador, Quito, 2000; Francisco Silva Garcia
Government Financial Management, IDB, 1997; Jose Mauro Brusa
Draft Legislation of Financial Management Reform in Ecuador: Projecto de Ley Organica de Gestion
Financiera del Estado, Proyecto de Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalizacion y Auditoria del Estado
*Including electronic files
- 52 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project tD    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P007131       1997 AG RESEARCH                                      21.00                                     1.20     12.10      4.30       3.80
P007135       1998 AGRIC CENSUS &INFO                               20.00                                               1.80     -0.10      10.00
P036056       1997 EC JUDICIAL REFORM                               10.70                                               0.80      0.30
P039084       1998 EC HEALTH SERVICES M.                            45.00                                              34.20     18.30
P070337       2000 EC SAL                                          151.50                                              80.00     80.00
P064045       2000 FIN SECTOR TA LN                                 10.00                                               8.80      4.20
P040086       1998 INDIGENOUS PEOPLES                               25.00                                               3.80      2.80
P040106       1998 INTL TRADE/INTEGRATION                           21.00                                               6.30      3.80
P063644       2002 POWER & COMM SECTORS MODD.                       23.00                                              23.00      0.50
P039437       2002 RURAL PO/ERTY                                    25.20                                              25.20      0.00
P049924       2001 RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATIO*N                 32.00                                              30.60      .1.40
Total:     381.00                                      1.20     226.70    112.20      13.80
- 53 -



ECUADOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                Agrocapital                    3.5       0        0       0      3.5       0       0        0
1969/73177181/82/87  COFIEC                          0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
1998                Concessionaria                 11.5     1.3       0      15     2.93    0.33       0     3.82
1999                FV Ecuacobre                  4.69       0        4       0     4.69       0       4        0
1998                Favorita Fruit                 8.89      5        0       0     8.89       5       0        0
1999                La Universal                    8.2      0        5       0      8.2       0        5       0
1993                REYBANPAC                     4.12       0        0       0     4.12       0       0        0
Total Portfolio:         40.9      6.3       9       15    32.33    5.33       9     3.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:
- 54 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America    middle-
Ecuador   & Carib.   Income      Development diamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       12.6      516      2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1.210     3.680     1.140
GNI (Atlas method, USS biltions)                      15.3     1.895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         2.0       1.6       1.0     GNI                             Gross
Labor forca (%)                                        3.1       2.3       1.3     peGpimr
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994400)                              capita                      enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povertV line)  35
Urban Dopulation (% of total population)               65        75        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        70        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)               28        30        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                        9         11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   71         85       80
Illiteracy (I% ofpopulation age 15+)                    9         12       15              Ecdor
Gross Primarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  127       113       114                cua
Male                                                134                 116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              119                 114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           11.7     10.7      19.0      13.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.1     17.5      12.9      16.8                    Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GOP            25.2     32.7      37.1      42.4
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                   25.9     22.9   - 24.2       28.4
Gross national savinqs/GDP                   21.1     15.1      20.3      29.4
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.5     -3.4       5.0       9.0     Domestic                    Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                         3.1      3.9       4.0       5.0     savings
Total debt/GDP                               51.1    113.3      76.4     104.7      av
Total debt service/exworts                   42.5     33.0      25.5
Present value ot debt/GDP                                       71.0
Present value of debt/exports                                  208.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2,0      1.8     -7.3       2.3       4.5              Ecuador
GDP per capita                      -0.6     -0.3     -9.0       0.4       2.6              Lower-middte-incoms group
Exports of ooods and services        5.4      4.1     -0.4      -0.2       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  12.1     13.4      12.2      10.0     100
Industrv                                     38.1     38.0      37.5      40.2      50
Manufacturing                              17.7     19.4      21.3      16.9      0I
Services                                     49.8     48.6      50.4      49.8  -      .    s   as    a,   as         as
Private consumption                          59.6     68.5      65.5      62.1    .100
General government consumption               14.5      8.6      10.4       9.5                    GDI       e  GODP
Imports of goods and services                25.4     27.4      25.8      30.8
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aoriculture                                   4.4      1.7      -1.3      -5.3    o0
Industrv                                      1.2      2.7      -3.7       4.9    20
Manufacturino                               0.0      2.1      -7.2       5.2      o                                 J_
Services                                      1.7      1.3     -11.7       3.4           .5         B?     9    9j oo
Private consumption                           19       13       -9.7       22     40
General qovernment consumption               -1.4     -1.8     -15.5      -1.3    -60
Gross domestic investment                    -3.8     -0.5     -52.9      48.0                  Exports  -*    Imports
Imoorts of goods and services                -1.4      0.4     -39.0      18.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv nn bold) compared with Its Income-group average, If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 55-



Additional Annex 11
Impimentation Structure and Organizational Chart
ECUADOR: EC Public Sector Financial Management
Or2anization responsible for the Proiect: Ministry of Economy and Finance
Implementation Arrangements:
1.    Executing agencies: The Ministry of Economy and Finance will provide the administration,
supervision, and guidance for all components of the project. It will carry out the execution of the
consolidation and expansion of coverage, and the conversion to real-time processing components
in cooperation with the line ministries and sub-national governments. In the latter case, it will be
supported by the AME and CONCOPE. The audit component will be executed under the CGR,
supported by the PIU in MEF.
2.      Project management: A Project Implementing Unit that reports to the Vice Minister of
Finance will provide both the overall co-ordination of all project components and will interface
with CGR and beneficiaries, providing routine management in the execution of all components,
from the CGR through to the audit technical coordinator in the PIU.
3.      Participatory Approach: The project creates collaboration between public sector entities,
in that it is the Ministry of Finance's endorsement and continuation of a CONAM initiative: the
MOSTA project. The rector organizations for financial management in the public sector, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Contraloria General del Estado will participate in the
design and implementation of the project. The CGE has communicated its commitment to operate
through SIGEF and will encourage its application and develop their capacity to audit through
SIGEF. The line ministries of the central administration were the first beneficiaries of the SIGEF,
developed under MOSTA, and will now take full advantage of the projects products. SIGEF has
incorporated critical functions, such as payroll, and will support the line ministries in fulfilling their
legal duty to report on their operations. The sub-national governments participated in the design
of the proposed operation through the discussions between MEF and AME. The individual
sub-national governments will participate in its implementation.
4.     Institutional Arrangements: The social objectives will be achieved through improved
reporting, which drives both accountability (and thus, governance) and efficiency. The project's
key indicators will monitor progress towards improved reporting.
Role of the Bank durin2 Proiect Implementation:
The project will receive close support from the Task Manager from the Sub Regional Office of the Bank
located in Lima, Peru, as well as from the Ecuador Resident Mission in regards to project implementation
and supervision.
- 56 -



OMANAC  NDAION DE LALNG D EJEWTORA
DEPROYECTODE
GESfcN DE LAS FNAAS PUCAS
m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ EWA                DE
l~I        E
-57 -



