Report No. PID10662
Project Name             Ecuador-Public Sector Financial (@)
Management
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Public Financial Management
Project ID               ECPE74218
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND
FINANCE
Ing. Carlos Julio Emmanuel, Ministro
Address: Av. 10 de Agosto y Jorge
Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Contact Person: Maria Dolores Cevallos,
Advisor to the Vice Minister of
Finance
Tel: 2906893
Fax: 2906598
Email: mdcevallos@minfin.gov.ec
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        January 6, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     January 14, 2002
Projected Board Date     March 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Since the early 1990's, successive administrations have worked to
modernize public expenditure control and accountability in resource
management. On the basis of the 1992 Public Budget Law and the 1993
Modernization of the State (MOS) Law, and with the support of the World
Bank's MOSTA project, the authorities have been developing modern systems
for management and control of public finances. They have recently drafted
two new key pieces of enabling legislation in this area, the Public
Finance Control Law ( Ley Organica de Control, Fiscalizacion y AuditorUa),
which has been awaiting debate in Congress since February 2000, and the
Public Financial Management Law ( Ley Organica de GestUon Financiera del
Estado), which is yet to be submitted to Congress. The Control law will
end the ex-ante control by the auditor-general (ContralorUa General del
Estado-CGE) and will eliminate the functional duplication of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance and the CGE on the issuance of accounting
standards. The law makes each entity responsible for its internal control
and places accounting standard setting under the joint jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the CGE. The Financial Management
Law, on the other hand, will apply the principle of centralized standard
setting and decentralized operations, enabling the various agencies to
assume direct responsibility for their own institutional financial
management. The Law will set principals and methods to regulate the public
sector financial management system, programming and execution of public



investment, and will establish fiscal-policy standards.The Government
views modernization of public financial management as crucial to aligning
expenditure more closely with policy priorities, in particular, to manage
expenditure in the social and poverty-reduction programs which is
reflected in the Structural Adjustment Loan that supports: (a) improvement
of the institutional framework for expenditure management; (b)
decentralization of the budget function, and (c) improvement of
expenditure control - in particular, advancing the implementation of the
recently developed Integrated Financial Management System ( Sistema
Integrado de Gestion Financiera-SIGEF). The Bank has been deeply involved
in reform in Ecuador since the early 1990's and was the only external
financier of the principle initiative in state modernization with the
MOSTA project Loan 3822-EC. This operation closed in March 2001 with the
official transfer by the project, which was managed under CONAM, of the
Integrated Financial Management System ( SIGEF) to the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. Other achievements of the MOSTA in the area of financial
management include the draft laws on Control and Financial Management, the
successful implementation a debt management system ( SIGADE), building
budget around input from the spending agencies under the guidelines of
the MEF and the creation of a personnel data base for the civil service.
The Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Bank in May 2000 carries
conditionality implying the continuation of the modernization of public
sector financial management specifically the implementation of the new
legal framework, extension of the SIGEF and the absorption of the SIGEF in
the MEF. SIGEF is mandatory for the whole non-financial public sector and
SIGEF management tools have been installed and are running in 22 central
government entities ( central units of all Ministries, the Presidency,
Vice Presidency, the Office of the Auditor General, the Electoral Tribunal
and in 62 Provincial Offices of the line ministries).     The Ministry of
Economy and Finance has established an office to coordinate the financial
management system in the public sector and the transfer of the SIGEF
management to MEF is complete.The proposed operation supports the
Government's program to    modernize  public sector financial management,
specifically it would (i) consolidate reforms in financial management
and control, (ii) install and fully implement an integrated financial
management system (iii) develop and strengthen audit capacity of the CGE.
SIGEF is now used at 3 levels in the Central Government ( i) SIGEF
Institutional- in most spending agencies to control budget execution,
perform treasury ledger accounting, and for cash management, ii) SIGEF
Global- in the MEF- Sub-Secretary of Budgets to track approved budgets
and changes to these and iii) SIGEF Treasury- in the MEF- Sub-Secretary
of Treasury to prepare Treasury statements ( sources and application of
funds) and control monthly cash programming. In each instance, however,
SIGEF, while working, has not reached its potential in coverage in terms
of percentage of budget processed within SIGEF or in the applications of
administrative processes that can, and should, be integrated. Furthermore
key processes in SIGEF Global have not been completed (e.g. consolidation
of budgets or execution by Sector , recording of execution against
approved budgets in SIGEF Global) since this was planned for the last half
year of the MOSTA project and was subordinated to priorities on the
preparation around the preparation of the 2001 budget.
2. Objectives
The Public Sector Financial Management Project would support the public
sector reform component of the Modernization of the State in Ecuador
-2 -



through the   completion, roll-out and improvement of an Integrated
Financial Management System and capacity building in the Supreme Audit
Institution ( SAI).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has developed a comparative knowledge on issues affecting public
sector reform and has worldwide experience and comparative advantage in
the areas of governance, state modernization, rule of law,
decentralization, integrated financial management systems where the Bank
has proven to play a catalytic role and disseminator of information. In
the region the Bank has led initiatives in Integrated Financial Management
Systems in Argentina, Bolivia, Guatemala. Bank staff have experience in
researching and analyzing approaches to designing and implementing
Integrated Financial Management Systems as well as expertise in assessing
the effectiveness of financial management in the public sector.
4. Description
Consolidation of SIGEF
Extension of SIGEF
Upgrade SIGEF's Technological Base
Develop Audit Capacity
Establish Legal and Organizational Support
Administration and Evaluation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 4.98
Total Project Cost       13.86
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 3.0 years Executing agencies: The project would be
implemented by the Project Implementing Unit, which was created by
Ministerial Resolution No 098 of April 5, 2001. The Unit reports to the
Under Secretary of Finances in MEF and coordinates its work with Public
Finance System Coordinating Unit. This Unit will carry out the project in
accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to IBRD. Key
instruments for the execution of the project would be: (i) annual
operating plans to be used by both the PIU in the MEF, Contraloria and
AME their respective participation in execution and (ii) performance
agreements to bind all agencies and key municipalities to the achievement
of agreed upon results with respect to the implementation of SIGEF.     The
Contraloria General del Estado ( CGE) will carry out the execution of
Contraloria component under the supervision of the the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and under terms and conditions which shall be
approved by IBRD. Project Coordination: Project coordination is the
responsibility of the PIU located in the MEF and will coordinate its
activities with   the  Directors-General within MEF ( Budget, Accounting
Treasury and Public Credit) and the Contralor with respect to Component
IV. The project would use an operational manual that covers all aspects of
project implementation, including but not limited to: organizational and
management structures, supervision and evaluation mechanisms. While CGE
will execute the Contraloria component and many departments in the general
government sector will participate with implementation all administration
of the project will be carried-out directly by the PIU in the
-3 -



MEF.Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and consultant services
would be carried out in accordance with IBRD's Guidelines for Procurement
(dated January 1995, revised January and August, 1996, September 1997 and
January, 1999), and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999), as
well as by the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement. These
procedures would be detailed in Table A of Annex 6 of the PAD. The
supervision of procurement and hiring processes would be the
responsibility of the Project Unit in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance. The specific procedures would be detailed in the Operational
Manual and would include the use of Standard Bidding Documents, previously
approved by IBRD for each procurement method to be used.Accounting,
Financial Reports, and Auditing. The administrative arrangements,
organizational structure of the administrative area and the staff for this
operation in the PIU in MEF are identical to those successfully utilized
in the PIU within CONAM for the implementation of MOSTA Credit 3822-EC.
For the purposes of carrying out the project a Special Account will be
opened and maintained in US Dollars at the Central Bank of Ecuador on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD. Deposits into the special
account and replenishments, up to the authorized allocations set out in
the Disbursement Letter, will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting
and other documentation as specified in the Disbursement Handbook. The
Financial Management Specialist for Ecuador will conduct a review of the
accounting, controls over disbursements and resources, planning and
budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff in the
PIU.Migration to Report Based Disbursements. Once the accounting and
financial management systems of the PIU are deemed compliant with LACI
requirements, and are certified as such by IBRD, a migration to a
PMR-based type of disbursements may be implemented.Audit Arrangement: An
independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IBRD, would be hired
to carry out annual audits of the project all the transactions are carried
out by the PIU in the MEF where all records would be maintained and
documentary support kept. IBRD Guidelines would be used by external
auditors. Audit reports would be presented to IBRD no later than six
months after the closing date of the previous fiscal year. Monitoring and
Evaluation Arrangements: Monitoring of project execution would be
undertaken by the PIU. The Bank would participate in monitoring project
implementation through periodic supervision missions. The PIU would
provide to the Bank an annual work plan not later than October 31st of
the preceding year, starting in 2002. The PIU would provide to the Bank
the 2002 work plan as a condition of effectiveness. Semi-annual reviews of
the project would be carried out, the first not later than June 30 of
each year, and the second not later than December 31st, starting in 2002.
A mid-term review would be conducted by June 2003 to assess progress in
meeting agreed targets and to identify additional technical support as
needed. Semi-annual progress reports would be presented to the bank no
later than 30 days after conclusion of each calendar semester starting in
2002.
7. Sustainability
The Ministry of Finance has main-streamed SIGEF through its use in the
preparation of the fiscal year 2002 budget "pro forma" or estimate , its
application in Treasury as the means to both control cash resources as
well as to report the Treasury position and movement, and as the
- 4 -



integrated financial management system in the line ministries. The
sustainability of the project is reflected in the declining share of bank
funding for consultants over the life of the project. The proposed
operation, however, faces the following risks:(1) delays in or failure
to pass the financial administration legislation committed to in the
Ecuador SAL and which supports the Ministry of Finance authority over
financial management in the entire public sector and provides the
uniformity in accounting classifications and reporting routines and
formats implied in SIGEF. (2) limited use of SIGEF; effective application
of SIGEF at the operating level of the Central Administration requires
real time processing for the disparate operating units which in turn
depends on the development of telecommunication infrastructure; this
development may not keep pace with the project's time table. (3)
sub-national governments may use their autonomy to resist the
transparency implied in the application of the SIGEF and, hence, limit or
divert its implementation by undermining its edits or its comprehensive
application.(4) conversion to Web based technology comprises the use of
new and developing tools, these are not well supported in Ecuador and are
new to the project team.(5) vulnerability of the project to flight or
bargaining pressure from the in-house developers.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A.  International Lessons    The project design reflects lessons learned
from the experience in developing and implementing Integrated Financial
Management Systems in the region and sought to keep the ends in mind while
adapting to local demands and assigning a high priority to early outputs
which impact transparency in the Ecuadorian Public Sector.The key lessons
in the region ( Integrated Financial Management in Latin America as of
1995, Implementing Integrated Financial Management Systems as
Institutional Reform and The Case of Guatemala's SIAF) and how they were
considered may be summarized as follows:1) The implementation of a IFMS
must result in more efficient, effective and economic government financial
management. Results count, benefits should be demonstrated early and be
publicized.The proposed operation is driven by goals to deliver line
management and central authorities the tools for informed decision making
which will contribute to efficiency, effectiveness and economy. The
operation's first priority is to place the missing links in the systems
developed in the first IFMS operation so concrete outputs, comprehensive
budget and financial statements, will be available in the first year.2)
The active support and leadership of top government officials and
politicians is crucial to carrying-out reform and providing appropriate
legal framework.The Minister of Economy and Finance has assigned the
highest priority to this undertaking and has provided leadership in the
Government, logistical support, coordination and human resources to
sustain the products. The supporting legal framework will be provided by
the legislation now ready for Congress. The implementation of the
Project's products is supported by conditions of the SAL.3) Technical
leadership at various levels, an effective project management and
coordination must be kept in place. Building an ever expansive cadre of
technical personnel linked to the MEF with the requisite technical skills
to absorb change and the new paradigm .The Project Unit is established and
adequately staffed. The MEF has a coordinating unit and the line
ministries have over 600 working with the products and advancing
implementation. The operation will consider a International Consultant in
the Conceptual area to support the achievement of the goals of the
- 5 -



IFMS.4) A definite, integrated, interrelated and interactive sector wide
strategy needs to be developed prior to implementation. The Government's
strategy for modernization of the public sector comprises the element of
financial management in the general government sector as well as the legal
framework for financial administration. The proposed operation supports
the implementation of the tools to support this strategy.B. Lessons from
the SIGEF component of MOSTAInformation Technology lessons of the first
operation arose in the following areas:Client Server, the current version
of the IFMS was developed in Client Server which was appropriate for
major spending centers in the general government sector and was well
supported by the tools available at the time. The proposed operation will
develop a version to run in Web based technology which will permit real
time processing of consolidated information and extend coverage to
pratically all administrative units. System Documentation, the review of
quality control underway in the PPF has highligted the need to improve
system and user documentation, the quality assurance procedures are
considered in the proposed operation to address this situation.
Out-sourcing of development, no development was out-sourced in the first
operation, the proposed operation plans to out-source the development of
major applications where private sector suppliers with specific
experience are available. In the conceptual area the following was
considered in the design of SIGEF IIConceptual leadership, the importance
of having in the project world class expertise in the conceptual area
of IFMS will be addressed by including an international consultant in
the design.Consolidation of information, the critical importance of
providing consolidated information is addressed first in the order of
progress of the new operation. Consideration of the needs of all users
including the preparation of IMF reporting- Government Financial
Statistics- and sector reports will also be addressed in the first year
of the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paul Edwin Sisk
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (5912) 356 844 ext. 231
Fax:   (5912) 391 038
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 6 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
- 7 -



