Report No. 23832
Report No: I074218 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ECUADOR         Project ID: P074218
Project: EC Public Sector Financial Management Task Team Leader: Paul
Edwin Sisk
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 18, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m): 13.86
Bank Approval: March 26, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCOAA     Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's objectives are to improve effectiveness and transparency in
financial management in the general government sector and to contribute to
better government through greater transparency attained by the independent
verification of the integrity of government financial reporting.
I.A.3. Project Description:
It is recognized that good governance is essential to development;
accountability (legal, political, and financial) as a key element of good
governance compels a state to focus on results and report on its
performance. Corruption is a symptom of poor governance; Ecuador
recognizes the problem of corruption in the public sector and has given
high priority to combating corruption. Accountability, which combats
corruption, is only possible with transparency in the financial operations
of the government. Since the early 1990's, successive administrations have
worked to modernize public expenditure control and accountability in
resource management. On the basis of the 1992 Public Budget Law and the
1993 Modernization of the State (MOS) Law the authorities have been
developing modern systems for the management and control of public
finances. They have recently drafted two new pieces of key enabling
legislation in this area: the Public Finance Control Law (Ley Organica de
Control, Fiscalizacion y AuditorUa), which has been awaiting debate in
Congress since February 2000; and the Public Financial Management Law (Ley
Organica de GestUon Financiera del Estado), which is yet to be submitted
to Congress. The Control Law will end the ex-ante control by the
Auditor-General (ContralorUa General del Estado-CGE) and will eliminate
the functional duplication of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
CGE on the issuance of accounting standards. The law makes each entity
responsible for its internal control and places accounting standard
setting under the joint jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the CGE. The Financial Management Law, on the other hand, will
apply the principle of centralized standard setting and decentralized
operations, enabling the various agencies to assume direct responsibility
for their own institutional financial management. The Law will set
principals and methods to regulate the public sector financial management
system, the programming and execution of public investment, as well as



establishing fiscal policy standards. The Government views modernization
of public financial management as crucial to aligning expenditure more
closely with policy priorities; in particular, in managing expenditure
within social and poverty reduction programs, something which is reflected
in the Structural Adjustment Loan.
The proposed operation supports the Government's program to modernize
public sector financial management. This loan supports: (a) improvement of
the institutional framework for expenditure management, (b)
decentralization of the budget function, and (c) improvement of
expenditure control - specifically advancing the implementation of the
recently developed Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema
Integrado de Gestion Financiera-SIGEF). Specifically, it would (i)
consolidate reforms in financial management and control, (ii) install and
fully implement an integrated financial management system, and (iii)
develop and strengthen the CGE's audit capacity.
The project will help Ecuador address the weak administrative capacity of
the public sector and improve governance at both national and sub-national
levels. Country performance in these areas, which are considered high
priorities by both the Government and the Bank, has been poor. SIGEF will
provide the timely, reliable and relevant financial information, which is
an indispensable element of strong administrative capacity. The paucity of
information for decision making is acutely felt in line ministries, as
well as in the area of control. Here, efforts are dissipated in looking at
the different parts of the public sector, since no reliable, comprehensive
information allows for risk evaluation or control review planning for the
system as a whole. SIGEF, through ex-post analysis performed by the MEF
Sector Analyst of the SIGEF Institutional reports, will provide the
means to verify that the use of funds by individual administrative units
is in line with authorized Budget uses and the cash programs approved by
the Treasury. SIGEF will also provide the means to record and report any
non-treasury revenues and their uses at spending agency level.
The project contributes to transparency by developing financial control
and reporting capacity, as well as by contributing to the capacity for
independent verification of the integrity of the government reports by the
Supreme Audit Institution (Contraloria). In what particularly concerns
transparency in the public sector, by applying the IFMS approach to as
much of the public sector as is practical, the operation will support the
preparation of timely, comprehensive and reliable financial reports and,
by capacity building in the Contraloria, independent verification will be
provided on the government's reports. For management information, the
implementation of the complete suite of SIGEF applications will ensure
that all of an entity's information is processed and available in real
time. The sub-national governments will have an instrument that ensures
their compliance with the legislative requirements on financial
administration reporting, provides them with the necessary operating
information and permits the MEF to compile comprehensive general
government sector reports and establishs the financial position of the
overall public sector.
SIGEF is now used at 3 levels in the Central Government: (i) SIGEF
Institutional - in most spending agencies to control budget execution,
-2 -



perform treasury ledger accounting, and for cash management, ii) SIGEF
Global- in the MEF Sub-Secretary of Budgets to track approved budgets and
changes to these, and iii) SIGEF Treasury - in the MEF Sub-Secretary of
Treasury for the preparation of Treasury statements (sources and
application of funds) and to control monthly cash programming. While
SIFEG is an effective tool for financial management its implementation
and effective application in the targeted-, and indeed minimum-, scope
public sector entities is yet to be carried-out. SIGEF 's array of
applications and its coverage of final external transactions are yet to be
completed and processed. Its edits must be extended down through the 22
central administrative entities where it is now operating, and the
capacity to consolidate information within sectors, as well as for the
entire central administration, must be fully completed and applied. In
its current state, Ecuador's public sector does not furnish stakeholders
with the transparency of their operations (a requisite in the process of
accountability). Of equal relevance to two of the expected outcomes of
effective public sector expenditure management (assigning resources to
strategic goals and achieving efficiency, economy and effectiveness) is
the paucity of financial information available to line ministries. Lastly,
the feeble state of financial management at the sub-national government
level, for decision making and for reporting of fund use, undermines both
the reporting on the general government sector and the capacity of these
entities to absorb the functions which may be marked for decentralization.
In addressing these concerns, the proposed operation chose to complete
and leverage the current system. Thus, it would achieve its impact goals
within the first year and then move on to the adoption of more
sophisticated tools and ICT environments.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.19 million
Consolidation of SIGEF I
Foremost in outputs is the culmination of the SIGEF IFMS tool, which is
already running its core subsystems in the central offices of all the
ministries. However, it provides neither the means for effective
consolidation of incurred budget expenditure and the financial position
for the central authorities of any sector, nor does it yet provide the
spending ministries with the full complement of its ancillary systems (the
management information module is not parameterized in most agencies and
the inventory module has not been implemented).
This component is comprised of the following sub-components:
i) Completion of the programming, testing and implementation of SIGEF
GLOBAL.
Given the mandate to provide operational decentralization, SIGEF
recognizes the autonomy of each Administrative Unit and supports this with
separate budget and accounting records. However, these must be
consolidated by Institution and Sector, as well as for the central
government administration, and, eventually, for the general government
sector. SIGEF GLOBAL will provide the means for consolidation. The
component relates to all activities in developing consolidation
applications and supporting users in the submission of these reports.
-3 -



SIGEF output files for consolidation may be set to report at different
levels of budget aggregation: from the most detailed (i.e. item and
expense classification within activity) to totals by group within each
activity. The approach set by MEF for the 2001 consolidation was to
aggregate by group, so as not to appear to encroach upon the line
ministries' operational independence. The outputs for 2002 will be
modified to meet the consolidation reporting demands, which may include
consolidation by item.
ii) Completion of the implementation support in Central Ministries for all
modules.
Key SIGEF modules are yet to be implemented; user support in use of core
subsystems must intensify to achieve the acceptance, sustained use and
full benefit of the tool. The sub-component will comprise user support,
training in the effective use of core and ancillary subsystems, and
on-going support to central administration installations.
iii) The provincial offices of the line ministries.
These transactions represent a significant portion of social sector
spending, although much of it is booked against budget on the strength of
transfer requests or on the strength of documentation rendered long after
the fact. These units are given the same administrative capacity as the
central ministries and, as such, transactions originating at the
provincial level will be processed with all the edits offered by SIGEF and
those available for consolidation at any level.
Project Component 2 - US$6.58 million
Expansion of Coverage: SIGEF Institutional
SIGEF is in use at the central offices of all the line ministries and must
now cascade down through the public sector to the following levels:
i) Autonomous bodies and entities affiliated with line ministries (IESS,
Universities). These represent the significant uses of public funds and
are the providers of key services that can be executed efficiently only
where effective financial management is in place. Reengineering of
processes, followed by implementation of the systems, are the
sub-components activities.
ii) The objective of this sub-component is to support financial management
within the municipalities. At the individual level, this would be through
the attainment of the basic outcomes of public expenditure management,
with respect to the performance of the municipality. At the joint level,
this would be through contributing to these outcomes in the general
government sector by providing the central authorities, and all interested
parties, with timely, reliable reports on the use of public sector
resources and the financial position of the sub-national sector.
A three pronged approach for the improvement of financial management
within the municipalities has evolved from the analysis of the existing
state of compliance with financial administration legislation, the
strengths of the municipalities and the objectives set out under this
component.
-4-



The broad range of size and capacity in the 215 municipalities in Ecuador
is such that 51 largest municipalities represent 66% of the use of
resources, the next 63 amounting to 20%, while the last 101 municipalities
represent only 14%.
This sub-component is divided into three areas. The first is the
developing of standard formats for the submission of budget and accounting
reports that are independent of the system in which they are generated,
thus offering the consolidation of the sub-national sector through the
General Accounting Office in MEF. Next is the installation of SIGEF in 35
of the 51 largest municipalities where a system upgrade would be
advantageous and is requested by the municipality. The Project will
develope a version of SIGEF Institutional for smaller municipalities and
develope procedures for the conversion of outputs to permit their
aggregation and subsequent consolidation by SIGEF Global.
The outputs and performance indicators applicable to the sub-component are
the percentages of municipal resources reported to MEF on time and which
are included in the periodic aggregation and consolidation report.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.53 million
Upgrade of SIGEF's Technological Base
The output sought in this component is to keep SIGEF current and viable,
taking advantage of the rapid technological changes which the IT and the
telecommunications industries are undergoing. This will be achieved
through the establishment of a public data network and by converting
selected SIGEF services to web-based technology.
Public Data Network: The maintenance and support of the distributed
databases is greatly facilitated and made economical through a real-time
connection with the SIGEF technical support unit. Updates of new versions
and user support in informatics demand constant communication between the
Administrative Units and the SIGEF support unit. These will be greatly
enhanced by real-time communications, as will the periodic transmission of
results and daily requests for funds between the units and the Treasury,
and information on the movement in the T accounts of the executing units.
This capacity will also permit the centralization of processing: either in
a client server arrangement for the line ministries in Quito, or in 3
tiers - as the appropriate versions are available. Hence, equipment
investment and the quality and timeliness of the financial information
would be optimized. The provision of telecommunications capacity in MEF,
and the connection to a MEF Web site via Internet, will facilitate access
to public sector financial information by the widest possible audience.
Conversion to Web based technology: The client-server architecture of
SIGEF does not facilitate its extension to all the entities with budget
autonomy, of which there are approximately 3000. If the autonomy of these
units is to be supported and their administration rendered efficient and
integrated with other similar units, then their transactions must be
processed by a reliable system that ensures the integrity of data and the
reliability of its results, which may be made available to designated
users in real time. This component will develop a Web-based SIGEF to run
centrally in MEF, or in some host provider, and will permit use by any
unit with access to the Public Data Network.
- 5-



Timing for completion of the two components is intertwined with and
dependent on upgrades of telecommunication capacity by the communications
service providers. The conversion to a Web-based version of SIGEF will
begin with the incorporation of accounting entities not currently running
SIGEF. The version will be available by July 2003 and this will be
preceded by the development of a public data network. The use of the
public data network will coincide with the installation of the necessary
equipment and the hiring of the external communications services. The
Quito entities of the Central Government will have access to the public
data network by the end of 2002, as will the Provincial Offices which are
currently running SIGEF. The balance of the central government will be
able to come aboard as they install the current client server SIGEF and
communication services expand to the respective accounting entity. Three
hundred and thirty-five (335) points, comprising 85% of the central
government administration expenditures, will be connected by the end of
2002. All accounting entities with access to the Public Data Network will
also have access to the network and be able to process through SIGEF once
the Web version is available (July 20003).
Project Component 4 - US$1.03 million
The introduction of SIGEF into the Central Administration demands,
firstly, that CGE be able to audit through the SIGEF, i.e. to determine
the integrity of data and the reliability of outputs processed in the
SIGEF IT environment. Secondly, it offers an opportunity for the CGE to
accomplish its control objectives more effectively and efficiently by
employing computer-assisted audit techniques which are applied to the
whole of Central Administration, while considering this group of financial
transactions as one part of the annual external financial audit. This
component comprises equipment support for the CGE, training in the
operation of SIGEF and a co-sourcing arrangement with a private audit firm
to train auditors, through practice, in the use of computer-assisted audit
techniques.
Project Component 5 - US$0.42 million
Ensuring Organizational and Functional Support for the IFMS Approach
Public sector financial management reform involves changes in financial
administration legislation, the organization of financial functions and
how these are carried-out. The IFMS concept is applied in the context of
the overall framework for government fiscal management, which is made up
of macroeconomic forecasting and management, budget preparation and tax
administration. The IFMS must be designed and applied in a manner that
facilitates the interaction of these areas. Similarly, there are ancillary
systems (those that provide only a portion of the administration of a
transaction) and linked systems (those that administer all parts of a
transactions, but are independent of SIGEF) that need to be coordinated
with the development of the IFMS. The regulatory framework must provide
the control structure, account classifications and reporting requirements
- all of which are affected by and affect the development and application
of the IFMS. This framework has largely been developed, but must be put in
place and fully understood and applied. The component includes all of the
support in process reengineering across the central administration, the
review of distribution of duties and their decentralization, advice to the
Ministry of Finance on IFMS, and the preparation of norms and regulations
for emerging financial administration legislation.
- 6 -



Project Component 6 - US$2.95 million
Project Administration and Evaluation
This component will support project management, monitoring, supervision
and impact evaluation at the different levels of the system. It comprises
both the PIU expenses for financial and procurement management and
processing, as well as the cost of providing the installations for project
personnel, in addition to project coordination and quality control. Of the
total PIU costs, the financial and administrative management of the
project is effectively and directly absorbed into the mainstream structure
of the Ministry of Finance and Economy through the 100% financing of these
functions.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project activities will take place entirely on the premises of the
existing offices of the ministries of the Central Government and certain
municipalities. There is no proximity to protected areas or sites or
critical natural habitats or other culturally or socially sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: N.A.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N.A.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N.A.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N.A.
-7-



II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N.A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N.A.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project is a creation of collaboration between public sector entities
in that it is the endorsement and continuation by the Ministry of Finance
of an initiative of CONAM, the MOSTA project. The rector organizations of
financial management in the public sector, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Contraloria General del Estado, will participate in the
design and implementation of the project. The line ministries of the
central administration were the first beneficiaries of the SIGEF,
developed under MOSTA, and will now take full advantage of the projects
products. The sub-national governments participated in the design of the
proposed operation through the discussions between MEF and AME , the
individual sub-national governments will participate in the in the
implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 8 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Paul Edwin Sisk 03/12/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Juan D. Quintero        03/12/2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Ernesto May     03/12/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-9-



