Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 7110-EC 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Financial Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 27, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7110-EC 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
on
May 11, 1977, the Borrower’s Supreme Council of Government 
passed the Organic Law of Financial Administration and Control (Supreme Decree No. 
1429 of 1977) that provides basic rules for the programming, organization, management, 
implementation, coordination and supervision of the Borrower’s public sector budget, 
revenue, treasury, accounting and control systems; 
(C) 
on November 26, 1992, the Borrower’s Congress passed the Public 
Sector Budget Law (Law No. 18 of 1992) that provides the general rules for the 
programming, formulation, approval, implementation, supervision, evaluation and 
liquidation of the Borrower’s public sector budget; 
(D) 
on March 13, 2000, the Borrower’s Congress passed an Economic 
Transformation Law (Law No. 4 of 2000) that provides, 
inter alia
,
rules on the 
Borrower’s public sector accounting; 
 
(E)  
on December 29, 2000, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance 
(MEF) issued the Financial Management System Standards (Ministerial Resolution No. 
182 of 2000) and launched the implementation of the Financial Management System 
(
Sistema de Gestión Financiera - 
SIGEF) for the Borrower’s public sector; 
 
(F) 
MEF has received from: (1) the State Comptroller General (
Contraloría 
General del Estado
 - CGE) a letter dated October 3, 2001; and (2)
 the 
Ecuadorian 
Association of Municipalities (
Asociación de Municipalidades Ecuatorianas
 - AME)
 
letters dated October 4, 2001
 and January 22, 2002, declaring CGE’s and AME’s 
commitment to the objectives of SIGEF and the Project, and requesting assistance from 
MEF for the implementation of SIGEF and the Project; 
 
(G) 
On March 15, 2002, MEF and CGE entered into an inter-institutional 
agreement providing for regular coordination mechanisms to facilitate the 
implementation of SIGEF and the Project, including a joint interpretation of Supreme 
Page  3
-
2
-
Decree No. 1429 of 1977, Law No. 18 of 1992, Law No. 4 of 2000 and Ministerial 
Resolution No. 182 of 2000; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affiliated Agency” means any agency of the Borrower, without legal 
personality, that operates affiliated to a Ministry of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“AME Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the Project annual work plans 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Autonomous Body” means any agency of the Borrower with legal 
personality; 
(e) 
“CGE Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Implementing Agency” means any agency of the Borrower that under 
Supreme Decree No. 1429 of 1977, Law No. 18 of 1992, Law No. 4 of 2000 and 
Ministerial Resolution No. 182 of 2000 must implement SIGEF, including: (i) the 
Borrower’s Ministries, Presidency and Electoral Tribunal; (ii) Autonomous Bodies; (iii) 
Affiliated Agencies; (iv) Provincial Councils (as hereinafter defined); and (v) 
Municipalities (as hereinafter defined); 
(l) 
“Large Municipality” means any Municipality (as hereinafter defined) 
with a population of 100,000 inhabitants or more; 
(m) 
“Medium and Small Municipality” means any Municipality (as 
hereinafter defined) with a population of less than 100,000 inhabitants; 
(n) 
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s municipalities (
Municipio
)
established under Article 234 of the Borrower’s Constitution;  
(o) 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual for the 
implementation of the Project referred to in Section 3.05 (a); 
(p) 
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set 
forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank (Supplemental 
Letter); 
(q) 
“PIU” means the Project implementing unit established pursuant to 
MEF’s Ministerial Resolution No. 098 of 2001; 
(r) 
“Procurement Strengthening Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan to 
strengthen procurement within MEF dated January 18, 2002; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan for the 
implementation of the Project dated January 25, 2002; 
(t) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on May 11, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on May 16, 2001;  
(u) 
“Provincial Council” means any of the Borrower’s provincial councils 
(
Consejo Provincial
)
established under Article 233 of the Borrower’s Constitution; 
(v) 
“Sectional Government” means any Provincial Council or any 
Municipality;  
(w) 
“SIGEF-Global” means the SIGEF module used by MEF’s Under 
Secretariat of the Budget to track approved budgets of the Implementing Agencies; 
(x) 
“SIGEF-Institutional” means the SIGEF module used by the 
Implementing Agencies to control budget execution, perform treasury ledger accounting 
and cash management; and 
(y) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen million 
eight hundred and sixty thousand Dollars ($13,860,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-
end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 1, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.  
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c)  
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MEF, with the cooperation of CGE (in respect of Part D of the Project) 
and AME (in respect of Part B.2 of the Project), and with participation of the 
Implementing Agencies (in respect of Parts A through C of the Project), all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, accounting, 
administrative and managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Pursuant to the CGE Participation Agreement, the AME Participation 
Agreement and each Implementation Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to 
enable MEF, CGE, AME and the Implementing Agencies to 
carry out the Project; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by MEF, CGE, 
AME and the Implementing Agencies. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph 
(a) above, the Borrower (through MEF) shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan. If any provision of the Project Implementation Plan is 
inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
govern. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower (through MEF) shall enter into agreements with 
each Implementing Agency, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such 
agreements to provide for MEF’s overall coordination of the implementation of Parts A 
through C of the Project, including, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
MEF's obligation to take all actions necessary or appropriate to 
enable each such Implementing Agency to participate in the 
implementation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
the obligation of each such Implementing Agency to: (A) operate, 
maintain, insure and repair, in accordance with appropriate 
technical and insurance standards, the goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (B) adequately train the personnel 
assigned to the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower (through MEF) shall enter into an agreement with CGE, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such agreement to provide the rules 
and procedures for CGE’s cooperation in the implementation of Part D of the Project.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower (through MEF) shall enter into an agreement with AME, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such agreement to provide the rules 
and procedures for AME’s cooperation in the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower (through MEF) shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Implementation Agreement, the CGE Participation Agreement and 
the AME Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Implementation Agreement, the CGE Participation Agreement or the AME 
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, PIU with structure and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including 
the following responsibilities:  
(i) 
overall Project financial management, comprising records, 
accounts, audits and reports; 
(ii) 
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; 
(iii) 
monitoring of the performance of the Implementing Agencies 
pursuant to the Implementation Agreements; and 
(iv) 
coordinating with CGE and AME the implementation of Parts D 
and B.2 of the Project, respectively. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that PIU is staffed at all times during the 
execution of the Project by professional staff with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank, all as prescribed in the Operational Manual. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide regulations for the 
coordination of Project implementation, including: 
(i) 
detailed disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting 
procedures; 
(ii) 
specific procurement responsibilities, processes and internal 
controls; 
(iii) 
precise monitoring and evaluation plans for the Project; and 
(iv) 
effective mechanisms for dissemination of information related to 
the Project. 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through MEF, shall: 
 
(i) 
not later than October 31 of  each year, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, an annual work plan for the following 
calendar year prepared in consultation with CGE (in respect of 
Part D of the Project) and AME (in respect of Part B.2 of the 
Project), such plan to specify: (A) the activities to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during such calendar year; and (B) the 
required financial and human resources; and 
 
(ii) 
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Work Plan in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Work Plan if, 
inter 
alia
,
the Bank has determined that the Borrower is not carrying out the Project as 
provided in this Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the Bank, 
have been taken therefor. 
Section 3.07. With regard to Part D of the Project, the Borrower (through MEF) 
shall enter into an agreement with a private audit firm, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of on-the-job training on computer-assisted 
auditing techniques. 
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through MEF, shall: 
(a) 
not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days after the Effective 
Date, complete a baseline survey on the status of SIGEF in the Implementing Agencies 
(including user satisfaction indicators), such baseline survey to be conducted with the 
assistance of independent consultants of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
not later than November 30th of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in 2004, conduct periodic updates of the survey referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, such updates also to be conducted with the assistance of independent consultants 
of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
not later than thirty (30) days after the completion of the survey and 
updates referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, the findings of such survey and updates; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(d) 
not later than sixty (60) days after the completion of the survey and 
updates referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, discuss the results of such survey and 
updates with representatives of the Implementing Agencies, taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon. 
 
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through MEF, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
not later than July 31 and January 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 2004, furnish to the Bank progress reports on the execution of 
the Project during the preceding calendar semester, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank may reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through MEF, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than August 31 and February 28 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 2004, hold a Project semi-annual review with the Bank, such 
review to be based on the reports referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
not later than August 31, 2005 hold a Project mid-term review to 
evaluate overall progress in the implementation of the Project and in the achievement of 
its objectives; and 
 
(c) 
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the implementation of the Project or in the achievement of 
its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient implementation of 
the Project or the timely achievement of its objectives. 
 
Section 3.11. For the purposes of the sustainability of the Project, the Borrower 
(through MEF) shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than one (1) year after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, a proposed overall sustainability plan for Project activities, 
including the transfer of the goods and consultants’ reports financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan to the line units of MEF that will assume the functions and responsibilities of the 
PIU; 
 
(b) 
not later than two (2) years after the Effective Date, start the 
implementation of the sustainability plan referred to in paragraph (a) above, as approved by 
the Bank; and 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
not later than September 1,2006, complete the implementation of the 
sustainability plan referred to in paragraph (a) above, and furnish to the Bank evidence 
(satisfactory to the Bank) about such completion. 
 
Section 3.12. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower (through MEF) shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of Project objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested 
including as a part of the information to be provided in each such 
report, a management letter concerning the 
Borrower’s internal 
controls; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of FMRs or statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the FMRs or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that Supreme Decree No. 1429 of 1977 
or Law No. 18 of 1992 or Law No. 4 of 2000 or Ministerial Resolution No. 182 or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have issued the Operational Manual; 
(b) 
the Bank shall have approved the Annual Work Plan for year 2002; 
(c) 
the CGE Participation Agreement and the AME Participation Agreement 
shall have been executed and delivered by the parties thereto; and 
(d) 
the Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of 
the completion of the Procurement Strengthening Action Plan. 
 
Section 6.02. The date September 26, 2003, is hereby specified for he purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington 
 
Quito, Ecuador 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(5932) 569-386 
 
558-232 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
By /s/ Carlos Játiva 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A
:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)  Goods 
 
5,450,000 
   80% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
Services 
 
4,750,000 
For expenditures made on or before 
December 31, 2003: 95%; for 
expenditures made after December 
31, 2003 but on or before December 
31, 2004: 80%; and thereafter:  60%
(3) Training 
 
400,000 
60% 
 
(4) Incremental 
Operating Costs and 
Services 
 
1,920,000 
For expenditures made on or before 
December 31, 2003:95%; for 
expenditures made after December 
31, 2003 but on or before December 
31, 2004:80%; and thereafter:  60% 
 
(5)  Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance
1,201,400 
Amounts due pursuant to section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement 
 
(6)  Fee 
 
138,600 
Amount due under Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement 
 
(7)  Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 2.09 (d) 
of this Agreement 
 ______________
TOTAL  
13,860,000 
============= 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a) 
“Incremental Operating Costs and Services” means reasonable costs, 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project, for: (i) office equipment and 
computer maintenance; (ii) rental and refurbishment of office space, office utilities and 
office supplies of PIU; (iii) travel and per diem of personnel of PIU; (iv) salaries of PIU 
staff, all as provided in the applicable Annual Work Plan; and (v) audit fees; and 
(b) 
“Training” means the reasonable cost of: (i) per diem and travel 
expenses of trainees; (ii) rental of training facilities and equipment; (iii) training 
materials; and (iv) training fees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the table set forth in Part A.1 of this Schedule, on 
account of payments made for expenditures made within twelve months before the date of 
this Agreement; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) through (4) of 
the table set forth in Part A.1 of this Schedule, in respect of Project activities for the benefit 
of an Implementing Agency unless such Agency has entered into the respective 
Implementation Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: 
(a) 
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; 
(b) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(c) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and 
(d) 
Training and Incremental Operating Costs and Services, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  19
-
18
-
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in its 
Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including (in the case of a commercial bank) appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first FMR referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of FMRs, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a FMR pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of 
FMRs, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex 
B
to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any FMR does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
Page  20
-
19
-
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
FMRs. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of FMRs 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equal to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $4,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  22
-
21
-
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of FMRs 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a FMR. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the FMR 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said FMR 
to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $1,000,000. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the effectiveness and 
tr
ansparency in the Borrower’s public sector financial management; and (b) to contribute 
to enhanced governance through the independent verification of the Borrower’s financial 
reporting. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Consolidation of SIGEF
1. 
Completion of the programming, testing and implementation of SIGEF-Global, 
including: 
(a) 
consolidation of budget and accounting records aggregated at institution, 
sector and central level; and 
(b) 
developing applications and supporting users in the submission of 
consolidated reports at the different levels of budget and accounting aggregation. 
2. 
Completion of the implementation of SIGEF-Institutional in all the Borrower’s 
Ministries, including user support, and training in the effective use of core and ancillary 
subsystems. 
3. 
Consolidation of SIGEF, through: 
 
(a) 
dissemination of SIGEF information and provision of training at 
managerial levels of the Implementing Agencies; and 
 
(b) 
documenting SIGEF developments in terms of: (i) manuals to support the 
processes implied in SIGEF; and (ii) general SIGEF systems documentation for proper 
support and maintenance. 
4. 
Strengthening of the administrative capacity of the provincial offices of the 
Borrower’s Ministries to process transactions originating at the provincial level under 
SIGEF rules. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Part B
:
Expansion of SIGEF
Implementation of SIGEF at the level of: 
1. 
Autonomous Bodies and Affiliated Agencies, including reengineering of internal 
processes. 
2. Sectional 
Governments, 
including: 
 
(a) 
organization and processing, under SIGEF rules, of Sectional 
Governments’ financial data, including the development of standard formats for the 
submission of budget and accounting reports for consolidation by MEF; 
 
(b) 
full-fledged implementation of SIGEF in Large Municipalities, 
including: (i) training of users; and (ii) installation and support of required applications; 
 
(c) 
development and implementation of SIGEF-Institutional for Medium and 
Small Municipalities;  
(d) 
development of conversion procedures to permit aggregation and 
consolidation of SIGEF-Institutional for Medium and Small Municipalities into SIGEF-
Global; and 
(e) 
provision of technical assistance for Sectional Governments to comply 
with internal and external financial management needs, including: (i) systems 
maintenance; (ii) capacity-building in public sector financial management legislation; and 
(iii) development of procedures for timely monitoring and follow-up compliance with 
mandatory reporting. 
Part C
:
Upgrade of SIGEF’s Technological Base
1. 
Establishment of a public data network, through: 
 
(a) 
maintenance and support of existing databases by means of real-time 
connections between the administrative units of the Implementing Agencies and the 
SIGEF technical support unit; 
 
(b) 
centralization of processing through suitable technical agreements; and 
Page  26
-
25
-
(c) 
provision of telecommunications capacity to MEF, including a MEF 
websit
e
to facilitate widespread access to the Borrower’s public sector financial 
information. 
2. 
Conversion to web-based technology, through: 
 
(a) 
processing of SIGEF transactions through a system that ensures data 
integrity and reliability, and is available to designated users in real-time; and 
(b) 
development of a central web-based SIGEF usable by any Implementing 
Agency with access to the public data network, through programming of web-based 
specific applications, conversion tools applied to existing programs or simulators of web-
based technology.  
Part D
:
Development of CGE’s Auditing Capacity
Development of CGE’s auditing capacity under SIGEF, to ensure data integrity 
and reliability, through the employment of computer-assisted auditing techniques. 
Part E
:
SIGEF Organizational and Functional Support
Provision of technical assistance to MEF for: 
1. 
developing and implementing the appropriate regulatory framework for the 
Borrower’s public sector financial management, including: 
(a) 
measures to ensure that SIGEF is applied in a manner that facilitates 
appropriate interaction with macroeconomic forecasting and management, budget 
preparation, and tax administration systems; 
(b) 
coordination of ancillary and linked transaction systems with SIGEF; and 
(c) 
determination of control structures, account classification and reporting 
requirements; and 
2. 
organizing and performing financial functions, through process reengineering in 
the Implementing Agencies, and reviewing the distribution of roles and responsibilities of 
MEF and the Implementing Agencies. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Part F
:
Administration and Evaluation
Project management, monitoring, supervision and evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 1, 2006. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
April 15, 
2007 1.94 
%
 
October 15, 2007 
2.00% 
 
April 15, 2008 
2.08% 
 
October 15, 2008 
2.15% 
 
April 15, 2009 
2.22% 
 
October 15, 2009 
2.30% 
April 15, 2010 
2.38% 
October 15, 2010 
2.46% 
April 15, 2011 
2.55% 
October 15, 2011 
2.64% 
 
April 15, 2012 
2.73% 
 
October 15, 2012 
2.83% 
 
April 15, 2013 
2.93% 
 
October 15, 2013 
3.03% 
 
April 15, 2014 
3.14% 
 
October 15, 2014 
3.25% 
 
April 15, 2015 
3.36% 
 
October 15, 2015 
3.48% 
April 15, 2016 
3.60% 
October 15, 2016 
3.72% 
April 15, 2017 
3.85% 
October 15, 2017 
3.99% 
 
April 15, 2018 
4.13% 
 
October 15, 2018 
4.27% 
 
April 15, 2019 
4.42% 
 
October 15, 2019 
4.58% 
 
April 15, 2020 
4.74% 
Page  29
-
28
-
October 15, 2020 
4.90% 
 
April 15, 2021 
5.08% 
 
October 15, 2021 
5.25% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date[, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
Page  30
-
29
-
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I, III and IV of this 
Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:  
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and not exceeding in the aggregate $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  32
-
31
-
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $840,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which: (a) should be procured as an extension of an existing contract; (b) 
must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment; 
(c) are of a proprietary nature; or (d) must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 above; and (ii) the first contract to be procured 
in accordance with the procedure referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
Page  33
-
32
-
(ii) 
prior to the execution of the contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Sections II, III, and IV of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  34
-
33
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of a standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and not exceeding in the aggregate $5,150,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the terms of reference, terms of 
employment and short list of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. 
Page  35
-
34
-
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement 
of goods under Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
 
1. 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability 
and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If 
any factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid 
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the 
bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount 
or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
2. 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to 
be subsequently awarded. 
 
3. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Ecuadorian 
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  36
-
35
-
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
 
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person. 
 
3. 
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, 
to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for 
Ecuadorian firms. 
 
4. 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees 
to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for 
Ecuadorian consultants. 
 
5. 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 
shall, at the time he or 
she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service 
office or any other position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have 
any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her 
consulting services. 
 
Section IV
:
Internal Approvals
With respect to any procurement of goods, and any employment of consultants to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents or 
requests of proposals or contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given 
only by MEF. 
 
Page  37
-
36
-
WB76939 
M:\ECUADOR\PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT\ECUADOR-Public Sector Financial 
Management (LA-Signing).doc 
August 27, 2003 9:58 AM
 
