                               Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001215



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-71100)



                                   ON A

                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 13.86 MILLION

                                  TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                  FOR A

          ECUADOR PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                             September 30, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2009)

               Currency Unit = 1.00 = US$1.00
                      US$ 1.00 = 1.00

                       FISCAL YEAR

                  January 1 to December 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AME            Association of Municipalities of Ecuador
CAIC           Savings Investment Account
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CATT           Computer Assisted Sudit Technology
CEM            Country Economic Memorandum
CETES          Treasury Certificates
CGE            General Comptroller Office
CONCOPE        Ecuadorian Provincial Councils Consortium
CTI            Information Technology Coordination Unit
CUR            Single Registration Certificates
CUT            Single Treasury Account
EPFMP          Ecuador Public Financial Management Project
FMI (IMF)      International Monetary Fund
IANC           Non-Commercial Autonomous Institutions
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IESS           Ecuadorian Social Security Institute
IFMS           Integrated Treasury Systems
II             Impact Indicator
INCOP          National Institute for Public Procurement
IT             Information Technology
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOSTA          Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
NFPS           Non Financial Public Sector
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PDO            Project Development Objective
PFM            Project Financial Management
PGE            National General Budget
PI               Project Indicator
RUC              Taxpayer Registration Number
SENPLADES        National Secretary for Planning and Development
SIGADE           Debt Management System
SIGEF            Financial Management Integrated System
SIPREM           Wage Bill Public System
TI               Transition Indicator
UDAF             High Direction Executing Unit
UE               Executing Unit
UNCTAD           United Nations Conference on Trade and Development




                  Vice President: Pamela Cox
                Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                 Sector Manager: Nicholas Manning
            Project Team Leader: Edgardo Mosqueira
               ICR Team Leader: Edgardo Mosqueira
                                                  Ecuador
                                    Public Financial Management Project

                                                        CONTENTS



1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................. 2
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 5
3.  Outcome Evaluation.................................................................................................... 10
4. Risks of Sustainability of the Project Achievements .................................................. 16
5. Bank and Government Performance Assessment ....................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component: Key Performance Indicators ..................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............... 29
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 30
Annex 6: Project Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 31
A. MOSTA Project Results ............................................................................................. 31
B: Limitations of the Conceptual Model and Operation of SIGEF ................................. 33
C. Cooperation Agreement Ecuador-Guatemala ............................................................. 35
D. Principal Conclusions Regarding Measurement of Indicators ................................... 36
E. Pending Actions to Consolidate the new e-SIGEF ..................................................... 40
F. Reasons for the Evaluation and Non-Evaluation of the Project Baseline Indicators .. 42
G. Achievements Related to the First Project Development Objective - Improvements in
   Treasury Management ................................................................................................ 44
H. Measurement of Baseline Indicators Associated with the First Project Development
   Objective ..................................................................................................................... 47
I. Achievements Related to the Second Project Development Objective ­ Improvements
   in Budget Execution .................................................................................................... 53
MAP ................................................................................................................................ 61
A. Basic Information
                                                                          EC Public Sector
Country:                Ecuador                 Project Name:
                                                                          Financial Management
Project ID:             P074218                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71100
ICR Date:               09/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ECUADOR
Original Total
                        USD 13.9M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 9.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 SIGEF
 Proyecto de Modernizacon de la Administracion Financiera del Sector Publico (eSIGEF)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/18/2001     Effectiveness:                              09/25/2003
Appraisal:            01/14/2002     Restructuring(s):                           06/11/2008
Approval:             03/26/2002     Mid-term Review:        08/18/2008          06/17/2008
                                     Closing:                03/01/2007          02/27/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                            Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   80                    80
Information technology                                              20                    20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    100                   100
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Carlos Felipe Jaramillo            Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:            Nicholas Paul Manning              Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:       Edgardo Mosqueira Medina           Paul Edwin Sisk
ICR Team Leader:           Edgardo Mosqueira Medina
ICR Primary Author:        Edgardo Mosqueira Medina


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improved effectiveness and transparency in financial management in the general
government sector. Contribute to better governance through greater transparency attained
by the independent verification of the integrity of government financial reporting

  These tasks will be achieved through the consolidation, expansion and upgrade of
SIGEF (Sistema Integrado de Gestión Financiera) as well as through the development of
the CGE's Auditing Capacity (Contraloría General del Estado).




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target         Completion or
                                            documents)           Values         Target Years
                  Timely comprehensive budget and financial statements for different levels of the
Indicator 1 :     public sector.

Value           Few entities with budget
                                           All levels of public
quantitative or and financial statements
                                           sector
Qualitative)    timely delivered
Date achieved   09/25/2003                 02/27/2009
                At beginning of project few entities prepared budget & financial statements. At
Comments
                end of project 100% of pub entities at Central Lvl of Gov are using the new e-
(incl. %
                SIGEF to process (and not only register) all fin transactions, including income &
achievement)
                expendires
                Opinions of the Auditor General on the comprehensive reports of the general
Indicator 2 :
                government sector
                Opinions of the Auditor CGR able to do
Value           General on the             automatic audits in
quantitative or comprehensive reports of each entity
Qualitative)    the general government incorporated in the
                sector                     eSIGEF.
Date achieved 09/25/2003                   02/27/2009
                Expected output was make CGR able to do automatic audits in ea. entity
Comments
                incorporated in the eSIGEF. Auditing software installed in Office of
(incl. %
                Comptroller Gral is linked w/ SIGEF. Comptroller's decision to use software was
achievement)
                still pending at end of project

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     no intermediate indicators in PAD
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                 iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                          IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    06/28/2002       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    12/17/2002      Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  3    06/24/2003      Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  4    12/04/2003       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    1.68
  5    06/10/2004       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    2.18
  6    12/23/2004       Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    2.48
  7    04/22/2005      Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                   3.18
                         Moderately
  8    06/22/2006                              Moderately Satisfactory             4.01
                       Unsatisfactory
  9    12/29/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                    4.49
                                                    Moderately
 10    06/29/2007       Unsatisfactory                                             5.47
                                                  Unsatisfactory
 11    12/19/2007   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             6.29
 12    06/27/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    7.28
                         Moderately                 Moderately
 13    12/18/2008                                                                  7.80
                       Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
 14    06/25/2009                              Moderately Satisfactory             7.90
                       Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/11/2008               S       S           7.28




                                          iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
                                  INTRODUCTION

Under successive governments from the early 1990s, Ecuador embarked on a number of
reforms to strengthen and enhance its public financial management systems. These
reforms included revision of the legal framework through the 1992 Public Budget Law
and the 1993 Modernization of State Law. The Bank became involved in the late 1990s
with the Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Loan ­ or MOSTA project.
MOSTA designed and partially implemented the Integrated Financial Management
System or SIGEF whose consolidation and expansion was supported by the Ecuador
Public Financial Management Project. The Project was approved by the Bank in March
2002 after 12 months of preparation activities, and signed by the Government in August
2003, after a delay of 18 months caused by the transition between presidential
administrations. This ICR presents a description of the project's implementation and its
results.

In the first ten months of implementation, the project focused on launching its activities
and the Government decided to focus on consolidation and expansion of SIGEF in order
to address some of the operational and technical challenges that were identified during
project preparation. Starting in 2004, the Government launched a Bank-supported in-
depth review of SIGEF's implementation hurdles and an assessment of the country's
overall financial management strategic framework. During this period of 18 months, the
Project was affected by a high level of turnover of authorities in the MEF, including four
Ministers, four Sub-Secretaries and five Project Coordinators. This turnover affected the
Project's management and oversight and resulted in low disbursement of the Project's
financial resources.

In 2006, one year before the originally planned closing date (March 2007), the
Government decided to develop a new version of SIGEF and requested the Bank's
support to identify specific public financial management models and best-practices within
the region, as well the extension of the Project's closing date. Following a set of
international workshops and study tours organized by the Bank, the Government decided
to develop and implement a web-based version of SIGEF (e-SIGEF) based on
Guatemala's model, adapted to meet Ecuador's needs. In addition, the Government
decided to implement key reforms to the budget processes and introduce a Single
Treasury Account. Since 2008, e-SIGEF has been managing the budget processes in
Ecuador and the reforms on the financial management are in place. As shown in this
document, these reforms have had an impact in terms of fiscal transparency and
efficiency, and generated significant fiscal savings.

The Bank's team played a key role through leveraging the best practices and experiences
of other countries and assisting the government in developing and adapting its strategic
plan to modernize PFM in Ecuador. The Bank team was able to keep the Project active
through encouraging an understanding of its potential role in supporting the management
of public finances of the country. It is important to note the active role the Ministry of
Finance played since 2007 in leading the modernization of the Ecuador's PFM systems.

                                            1
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

1.     At the time of the Project's design and approval (2000-03), Ecuador was coming
out of an economic crisis caused by the combination of recovery from the El Niño
climate phenomenon's extensive damage to roads and agriculture, the collapse of the
banking system, and fiscal deterioration linked to historically low petroleum prices.
Ecuador emerged from the crisis with a new monetary regime anchored on dollarization
that averted hyperinflation and stemmed capital flight, but placed pressure on the
country's balance of payments. As a result of this change, fiscal policy came to play an
enhanced role in stabilizing macroeconomic fluctuations.

2.      The Ecuador Public Financial Management Project (EPFMP) aimed to respond
to the need for increased fiscal discipline and improved control and efficiency in budget
execution through implementation of an integrated public financial management system.
The project was in line with key objectives of Ecuador's Country Assistance Strategy that
aimed to "restore macro-financial stability, recover the banking system and promote
economic growth recovery" and "strengthen governance by helping the Ecuadorian
officials build an accountable and efficient government, the services of which are
accessible to all Ecuadorians." 1

3.      Prior to the economic crisis of the late 1990s, Ecuador had embarked on a number
of public financial management (PFM) reforms and revised its PFM legal framework via
the 1992 Public Budget Law and the 1993 Modernization of State Law. The Bank assisted
Ecuador in late 1990s with the Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Loan or
MOSTA project that closed in March 2001.2 The MOSTA project implemented a number
of these reforms, including strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF); modernizing the budget, treasury and accounting systems; and
establishing the Integrated Financial Management System (SIGEF) in 22 central
government agencies (the central units of all Ministries, the Presidency, Vice Presidency,
the Office of the Auditor General, the Electoral Tribunal) and in 62 Provincial Offices of
the line ministries (see Annex 6-A on the MOSTA Project Results).

4.    Yet, while the MOSTA project introduced and implemented key components of
SIGEF, from 2001 onwards ­ after the MOSTA project closed ­ SIGEF's
implementation faced two significant challenges:

      The `deconcentration' of budget execution weakened central authority management
      of budget and cash flow. At the beginning of 2000, the government's structure was
      reorganized in order to centralize regulations and `deconcentrate' spending to 2,574


1
  Ecuador Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report. Washington, DC, The World Bank, 2000;
Ecuador Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007. Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2003.
2
  The Modernization of the State Project, approved December 13, 1994 (World Bank, Loan No. 3822).

                                                  2
      entities. These included 2,256 financially independent entities of the central
      government (including 1,856 schools and 208 health areas), 81 autonomous agencies
      and 237 autonomous sub-national governments. Each had responsibility for
      administering and executing their own budget while central authorities at the MEF
      were responsible for budget regulation and supervision.

      Few standardized practices across expenditure units. Until 2001, there was no
      standardized application of SIGEF across agencies and levels of government. This led
      to differences in accounting practices (cash vs. accrual); discretionary application of
      accounting and budgetary rules; a lack of integration between budgets and accounts;
      and non-comparable data ­ all leading to an overall difficulty in generating accurate
      national accounts.

5.     While SIGEF was working at the time of project preparation, it had limited
coverage due to MEF's lack of adequate mechanisms to consolidate financial information
as many of the key PFM processes lay outside its ambit. The project was therefore
devised to consolidate and extend SIGEF, as well as to upgrade its technology. During
Project's implementation, the project significantly shifted resources in order to design
and develop a web-based version (e-SIGEF). (See para 9, below).

1.2        Original Development Objectives and Key Indicators

6.      The two principal objectives of the Project were: (i) to improve the effectiveness
and transparency of Ecuador's public sector financial management systems; and (ii) to
enhance the country's overall level of governance through independent verification of
financial reporting. 3 The Project Appraisal Document (February 22, 2002) stated that
progress towards program objectives and their evaluation upon completion would be
measured by: (i) the timeliness and comprehensiveness of budget and financial reporting
from the non-financial general government sector; (ii) the extent to which there was
application of an Integrated Treasury System (IFMS) within the general government
sector; (iii) the portion of public financial statement reports subject to the Controller's
opinion, and (iv) the effectiveness of cash management within the general government
sector. The Project objectives were aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy's
objective to improve Ecuador's PFM capacity.

1.3       Principal Beneficiaries

7.        The beneficiaries identified for the Project were:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). This included MEF organizational
          strengthening, increased management capacity and enhanced IT infrastructure to
          administer the PFM system.




3
    See the Loan Agreement (World Bank, Ln. 7110-EC, dated August, 27 2003).

                                                   3
        Line Ministries. Integration of all central government line ministries within the
        PFM communications network.
        `Deconcentrated' Units of the Line Ministries. Widened coverage of SIGEF to
        83 deconcentrated units of line ministries.
        Autonomous and Decentralized Entities. Fifteen autonomous and decentralized
        entities (state universities and regional development entities) who voluntarily
        requested to be included in SIGEF.
        The Office of the Comptroller General. A specific component to support
        technology and technical assistance (co-sourcing) for capacity-building in
        computer-assisted audit processes of the Office of the Comptroller General.
        Local Governments. A number of municipalities requested inclusion in SIGEF's
        implementation and the Association of Municipalities of Ecuador (AME) created
        an alliance to develop a simplified version of SIGEF adapted for municipalities.

1.4 Original Components

8.      The Project had the following components (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement):

     A. Consolidation of SIGEF (US$ 3.19 million). The first component was aimed to
        complete the implementation of the `Global SIGEF' (SIGEF GLOBAL)
        components in the MEF, including installation of fixed assets and ensuring that all
        agreements with other entities were signed. During project implementation
        several key modules were completed in the Budget, Accounting, Treasury and
        Payroll Departments as part of the `Institutional SIGEF' (SIGEF
        INSTITUCIONAL). A simplified version of the `Institutional SIGEF' ("SIGEF
        lite") was developed for smaller institutions (e.g., schools, hospitals and
        municipalities). Automatic mechanisms to integrate the data generated by the
        `Institutional SIGEFs' within the broader `Global SIGEF' were also developed.
     B. Expansion of SIGEF (US$ 6.58 million). This component was designed to
        complete the expansion of `Institutional SIGEF'. During the project life it was
        expanded to cover 62 percent of expenditure transfers from the Central
        Government. This included 83 deconcentrated agencies and entities, 15
        autonomous and decentralized entities, and a broad number of municipalities.
     C. Upgrade of SIGEF's Technological Base (US$ 4.53 million). This component was
        focused on the implementation of a data network to integrate up to 335 public
        institutions, including key urban centers and develop a new Internet-based version
        of SIGEF.
     D. Development of the Comptroller General of the State's (CGE) Audit Capacity
        (US$ 1.03 million). This component was focused on supporting the
        implementation of the agreement reached with Ecuador's control authority
        (General Comptroller of the State) to include them in SIGEF and introduce of
        computer-assisted audit technologies (CAAT).


                                             4
      E. SIGEF Organizational and Functional Support (US$ 0.42 million). This
         component was included to support the overall conceptual, organizational and
         legal underpinnings of the PFM reforms.
      F. Administration and Evaluation (US$ 2.95m).

The total expected cost of the Project was US$ 18.70 million of which US$ 13.86 million
was financed by the Bank's loan (See Annex 1 for details).

1.5      Significant Changes

9.      During the lifecycle of the Project, substantial changes were made in the scope of
the components, which were reflected during budget execution. (See Annex 1: Project
Costs and Financing). Overall, the Project allocated additional resources to the
Upgrading Technological Base and Organizational and Functional Support components
in order to support the development of the new system e-SIGEF and correspondingly
reduced the planned allocations for the consolidation and expansion of the first version of
SIGEF. These decisions were taken during 2006 and the new system was launched in
January 2008. No Project restructure was required, although the Government's decision
to implement a more ambitious web-based version of the system (e-SIGEF) necessitated
shifting some Project allocations toward web-based design and organization, as well as
providing the corresponding technical support.

10.     To complete the preparation and launching of the new system the Government
requested two extensions of the project closing date. The first extended the closing date
until July 31, 2008 and was granted by the Bank on February 27, 2007. The second
extended the closing date until February 27, 2009 and was granted by the Bank on June
09, 2008. The new government plan also redefined the budget required for the
development of the new system and a partial cancelation of the loan proceeds was
requested on November 13, 2007 up to the amount of US$ 4.5 million. The Government
request was granted by the Bank on January 10, 2008.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation

11.     Project Preparation Facility. Project preparation began with support from
resources granted to the Government under a "Project Preparation Facility" approved in
May 2001. The Project was approved by the Bank in March 2002 and signed by the
Government in August 2003. Project preparation took twelve months and project signing
a further eighteen months later. The delay in signing was due in large part to changes in
the elected Government. For example, while Project preparation and approval was
completed by March 2002, the authorities decided to leave the decision regarding the
Project's formal approval to the newly elected Government that took over in December
2002. In addition, changes to the Project's design, such as incorporation of activities to


                                            5
support the transfer of SIGEF to a web-based platform, also caused delays in Project
signing.

12.    During the time of project preparation, significant progress was made in
improving the SIGEF applications and expanding coverage, including extending the
SIGEF to 149 institutions or agencies, and enhancing the range of SIGEF applications
(namely `SIGEF Overall and Budget', `SIGEF Treasury' and `SIGEF Institutional'). In
addition, the preparation period allowed the Government and the Bank to identify
problems in SIGEF's conceptual model. (See 6-B on Limitations of the conceptual model
and operation of SIGEF).

13.     However, some shortcomings of the Ecuadorian public financial management and
its SIGEF system were not timely identified and addressed by the project design. Besides,
the expansion of the system to local governments and the role of the Comptroller Office
were not extensively assessed and it may have lead to the poor performance of these
activities during the implementation of the project. Finally, the project's monitoring
mechanisms did not have sufficient detail to assess the effective progress in achievement
of the objectives, the project's overall long-term impact on PFM and the quality of fiscal
management.

2.2    Project Implementation

14.     First Project Implementation Phase (August 2003 ­ June 2004). In the first ten
months of the project's implementation, the project was focused on launching its
activities and the Government decided to focus on consolidation and expansion of SIGEF
and addressing some of the operational and technical challenges that were identified
during the project preparation stage.

15.    Second Project Implementation Phase (June 2004 ­ January 2006). In 2004, the
Government launched a Bank-supported in depth review of SIGEF's implementation
hurdles and to conduct an assessment of the country's overall financial management
framework and processes. This decision was promoted by the Bank as part of the
technical dialogue conducted with the Government to discuss the problems identified
with SIGEF's operation during Project preparation. Following a Bank mission in July
2004, MEF authorities conducted a thorough review of SIGEF and decided to speed up
the design of the new web-based version of the system. Quarterly operational plans
ensured continued basic operation of SIGEF, while major investments in development of
the older system were suspended pending a strategic review of the SIGEF's conceptual
and technical design to see how well they fit with the PFM needs of Ecuador.

16.     To support the Government's new strategic approach, the Bank organized a series
of briefings, workshops and study tours by Government officials to other Latin American
countries to enable them to benchmark Ecuador's PFM system with those of other
countries. The Government subsequently identified SIGEF's key implementation hurdles,
including the technological challenges of adapting SIGEF to `deconcentrated' agencies, a

                                            6
lack of integration among the different modules of the system, the absence of a Single
Treasury Account to improve treasury management, a misalignment between the public
sector's organizational structure and its budget management, and other constraints (see
Annex 6-B on Limitations of the conceptual model and operations of SIGEF). During this
period, the Project was affected by a high level of turnover of authorities in the MEF,
(including four Ministers, four Sub-Secretaries and five Project Coordinators in 18
months). This turnover affected the Project's management and oversight and resulted in
low disbursement.

17.      Third Project Implementation Phase (February 2006 - February 2009). One year
before the originally planned closing date (March 2007), and due to the reasons stated
above, the Government decided to develop a new version of SIGEF and requested the
Bank's support to identify best practice PFM models of other countries within the region.
Between February and May 2006, the Bank facilitated an evaluation process that
included an international workshop with experts from Argentina, Colombia and
Guatemala, and organized a visit to Guatemala's Ministry of Finance to learn from the
operation of their PFM systems. Following these workshops and tours, the Government
decided to develop and implement a web-based version of SIGEF (e-SIGEF) based on
Guatemala's model, adapted to meet Ecuador's needs. E-SIGEF focused initially on the
Budget, Accounting and Treasury modules, which eventually replaced `SIGEF
Institutional'.

18.    On May 31, 2006, the Ministries of Finance of Guatemala and Ecuador signed an
Agreement for Cooperation and Technical Assistance, to secure assistance from experts
of the Guatemalan Financial Integrated Information System (SIIF) in the design and
development of the web-based version of SIGEF, e-SIGEF. (See Annex 6-C that includes
the Agreement). The new system's design, conceptual framework and development were
completed between mid-2006 and 2007. In addition, this led to a number of reforms in
the regulatory framework and the management of PFM operations, including a key
reform to improve MEF's budget management, the introduction of a Single Treasury
Account, which was launched jointly with the new integrated financial management
system (e-SIGEF) in January 2008.

19.    The Bank conducted a mid-term review in August 2008. At this stage, the new e-
SIGEF had been deployed, and was operational in the Central Government agencies. The
mid-term review mainly focused on advances made in the new system's implementation
and the monitoring and evaluation of the Project's performance.

20.     The Bank's team played a key role in supporting the Government's decision to
reassess the country's overall PFM systems, particularly through leveraging the best
practices and experiences of other countries and assisting the Government in developing
and adapting its strategic plan to modernize PFM in Ecuador. Over a number of years the
Bank's team was able to keep the Project active, through encouraging an understanding
of its potential role in supporting the public finances of the country. This was
accomplished in an environment where five other Bank-financed projects were cancelled.

                                           7
During the timeframe of the project there were 11 different Ministers of Finance and 8
different Project Coordinators.

2.3     Project Monitoring and Evaluation

Design of the Monitoring and Evaluation Instruments

21.     Aside from the four key indicators to assess progress listed in the Project
Development Objectives section, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) had additional
indicators for monitoring and evaluation, including i) the depth of coverage of SIGEF
within Central Government and other autonomous and decentralized entities and agencies,
ii) how up to date the IT system was, iii) the audit capacity in the Office of the General
Comptroller of the State (CGE), and iv) the approval of the conceptual documents and
the regulations of the system. (See Annex 2 for an overview of the project indicators.
Note, there is little data to quantify some of the indicators during the project's approval
phase, 2002-03). These indicators were mainly focused on specific outputs of each of the
main components but did not have sufficient detail to assess the effective progress in
achievement of the objectives, the project's overall long-term impact on PFM and the
quality of fiscal management.

22.     A Diagnostic of Project Progress and Measurement of the Outcome and Impact
Indicators was prepared as part of the Mid-term Review of the Project on February 15,
2007.4 It noted that the Project's achievements included a marked cultural change in the
entities that had implemented the `Institutional SIGEF'. These improvements included
enhanced administrative-financial discipline, internalization of accounting and
operational procedures, an enhanced level of professionalization and training of
personnel, better controls and security in budget management, and in a more systematized
and coherent process for sending forward budget proposals (proforma), as well as
enhanced budget and accounting execution in those entities. The evaluation report
documents progress in terms of the overall coverage of the system, the number of
implemented modules, consolidation of the budget operations, the quality of the
information and fewer delays in budget closure.

Design of the Project Baseline and First Measurements (Retrospective to 2003 and
2006)

23.     Parallel to the decision to implement the new e-SIGEF system, the Bank and the
MEF prepared the Technical Specifications for Identifying New Project Indicators,
Definition of the Baseline and the Measurement and Evaluation Methodology,5 which


4
  Cueva, Simón. February 2007. "Diagnóstico de los avances del Proyecto y Medición de los Indicadores
de Resultado e Impacto" (Diagnostic of Project Progress and Measurement of the Outcome and Impact
Indicators). Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público. Quito, Ecuador.
5
  Cueva, Simón. February 2007. "Evaluación de Medio Término y Diseño de Metodología para la
aplicación de la Línea Base ­ Octubre 2006" (Mid- term Review and Design of the methodology for
baseline measurement). Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público. Quito, Ecuador.

                                                 8
proposed a series of new indicators to support an objective evaluation of the Project's
progress and impact. These indicators were classified into three areas:

    Project Transition Indicators (TIs): Indicators for the transition phase and of the new
    e-SIGEF system with Central Government entities.

    Project Indicators (PIs): Compliance with the Project's objectives, beyond the
    critical phase of implementation of the new e-SIGEF system.

    Impact Indicators (IIs): Impact of the project on Ecuador's overall PFM system and
    fiscal management. These aspects depended to a degree on externalities, such as
    ministerial-level organizational policies, the country's macroeconomic situation, and
    other factors that were beyond the Project's direct sphere of influence.
Second Baseline Measurement (2009)

24.     The second baseline measurement took place in January-February 2009,
following a delay in the initially planned dates (July 2007 and May 2008). The
Consultancy Report of the Study and Measurement of Baseline Indicators of the Public
Financial Management Project6 provided an overview of the measurement of 26 baseline
indicators and excluded some indicators proposed in the baseline. 9 indicators were
excluded because they were considered redundant or 100 percent accomplished
(demonstrating areas where the project met its objectives); 5 were excluded because they
were related to modules or components that were not yet designed or implemented; 9
were not measured as a result of changes in the legal and institutional framework; and 23
were not measured because of a lack of information.

25.    The main conclusions on measurement of the indicators from 2006 to the end of
2008 are included in Annex 6D. Monitoring and evaluation improved substantially once
the new conceptual model of e-SIGEF was defined. It was then possible to establish a
baseline and track measurements.

Pending Actions to Consolidate the New e-SIGEF

26.    There are a number of actions needed to consolidate and strengthen e-SIGEF,
beyond the closing date of the Project (see Annex 6E). These actions relate to the
technical and institutional issues required to ensure adequate operation of e-SIGEF and
were agreed by the Bank and the Government in the Project Closing Aide Memoire
(February 16-20, 2009).




6
 Andrade, Margarita, "Informe de Consultoría de Estudio y Medición de Indicadores de la Línea Base del
Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público" (Consultancy report on the study and
measurement of baseline indicators of the Public Financial Management Project). Proyecto de
Administración Financiera del Sector Público. Quito, Ecuador. February 2009.

                                                  9
3.       Outcome Evaluation

3.1      Relevance of the Objectives, Design and Implementation

27.     The two objectives of the Project were strongly aligned with the country's
development strategy. The capacity to adequately prioritize public spending and monitor
budget execution were key components of the strategy to promote stable and robust
economic growth.7 In order to have sustained economic growth and poverty reduction,
the country's vulnerability to external shocks and the restrictions imposed by
dollarization underscored the importance of a sustainable fiscal policy together with
instruments for widening the fiscal space.8

28.    The two objectives of the Project were aligned to the more general objective of
Ecuador's Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report 2000 and Country Assistance
Strategy 2003-2007 of "restoring macro-financial stability, recover[ing] the banking
system and promot[ing] economic growth recovery" and "strengthening governance by
helping the Ecuadorian officials build an accountable and efficient government, the
services of which are accessible to all Ecuadorians".

29.      The Project's original objectives and design had some limitations:

      The Project components and their objectives and activities had lower overall
      coverage than what was listed in the Project Development Objectives (PDOs). In
      order to meet the PDOs, it was necessary to implement other public policies,
      including measures to strengthen Ecuador's overall fiscal discipline and
      sustainability, mechanisms to follow-up and evaluate public spending, results-based
      budget management policies, and policies for transparency and citizen oversight of
      the public accounts.

      The component on Financial Audit Capacity-Building of the Auditor General did not
      contribute sufficiently to the overall objectives. This component was fundamental for
      the overall objective of strengthening independent verification of the financial
      reports of the Government. However, the initial design was too general and did not
      ensure the necessary institutional changes needed to assist the Auditor General in the
      performance of its activities. For example, the Auditor General issued opinions on
      the financial statements and special audits, it did not perform management or results-
      based audits.

      The component on Project Administration and Evaluation had design weaknesses.
      The monitoring and evaluation mechanisms focused on input indicators to determine


7
  Ecuador Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) -- Promoting Stable and Robust Economic Growth.
  Washington, DC: World Bank, 2006.
8
  Creating Fiscal Space for Poverty Reduction in Ecuador ­ A Fiscal and Public Expenditure Review. The
World Bank. Washington, DC, 2005.

                                                 10
      whether the planned activities in the components were completed and few of them
      were able to monitor results that could be directly linked to the impact of the PDOs.

3.2      Achievement of the Project Development Objectives (PDOs)

30.     A mechanism to assess the Project's compliance with the PDOs is the progress
against the key performance indicators in the PAD. Most indicators in the PAD were met
satisfactorily. (Status for 2000-05, 2006 and February 2009 is summarized in Annex 2).

31.    Of the 72 indicators included in the Project's baseline developed during the mid-
term review, only 26 were evaluated (See Annex 6F, Reasons for the Evaluation and
Non-Evaluation of the Project Baseline Indicators). The following two sections provide
an overview of the measurement results of the 26 evaluated indicators, organized
according to their relationship to each of the two PDOs.

First Development Objective: Enhance effectiveness and transparency in public
financial management in Ecuador9

32.     Annex 6G provides a detailed overview of the improvements in treasury
management as a consequence of implementation of the Single Treasury Account and the
e-SIGEF web-based system. Annex 6-H shows the measurement results of the Baseline
Indicators related to the first PDO. In sum, the system significantly strengthened the
capacity, budget, and management of the treasury, which now has enhanced control as
well as more reliable and timely information. Below is a summary of these results:

         The reforms equipped MEF with the necessary tools to exercise its role as
         financial manager more effectively and efficiently. This included enhancing
         MEF's ability to administer the use of fiscal resources, program cash operations
         and optimize liquidity management. Through the system, the Ministry could track
         the Central Government's budget online ­ including budgeted, coded, accrued and
         paid expenses ­ thus providing key information for economic policy decisions.
         The reforms reduced the need to find additional funding resources. It became
         possible to eliminate idle balances that the previous management system
         permitted in order to cover supplier payment and payrolls. These measures,
         combined with the improved fiscal income linked to the high petroleum price,
         helped eliminate the need to issue Treasury Certificates (CETES).
         The coverage and use of the e-SIGEF was greatly expended, leading to
         improvements in the country's overall PFM system. All implementing units of the
         Central Government are now part of the system, which consolidates 84 percent of
         the budget information of the Central Government.



9
 This section is based on: Andrade, Margarita; Barletti, Bruno; Mosqueira, Edgardo. July 2008. "Ecuador
Principal Benefits of the new Integrated Financial Management System e-SIGEF" (draft document).

                                                  11
         The reforms have enabled improvements in the level of transparency of the use of
         public resources in various aspects: (i) self-management resources of the
         implementing units are included in the Single Treasury Account; (ii) payrolls are
         tracked and real-time information on vacancies are available; (iii) new `floating
         debt' is no longer created; (iv) delays in payments to suppliers have been reduced;
         (v) payments are validated to check if they comply with regulations and the
         expenditure quota for the implementing unit based on existing cash resources; (vi)
         implementing units cannot make budget changes without prior authorization
         from the Subsecretariat of the Treasury; and (vii) budget modifications have been
         gradually reduced.
         The reforms generated progress in daily PFM monitoring and operations,
         including: (i) daily transaction processing; (ii) provision of `real-time' electronic
         data and information; (iii) minimized payment errors; and (iv) direct supplier
         inputs on the status of payments.
Second Development Objective: Contribute to strengthened governance through an
independent verification of the integrity of the government's financial reports10

33.    Annex 6-I provides a detailed overview of the improvements achieved in budget
execution as a result of the Project reforms, particularly the implementation of the new e-
SIGEF web-based system. Annex 6-J outlines the measurement results of the Baseline
Indicators related to the second PDO. In brief, the e-SIGEF system generated
improvements in the control of public fund management ­ some of which are also
important for the first PDO, such as: (i) inclusion of self-managed resources of
implementing units in the Single Treasury Account; (ii) management of public servant
payroll payments, including real information on vacancies; (iii) controls to prevent
agencies to create floating debt; (iv) validation of payments to check regulatory
compliance; (v) real-time follow-up of budget execution by the sectoral ministries and
implementing units and the real time payment status; and (vi) enhanced coverage of the
system in terms of Central Government entities, thus avoiding that some of these entities
maintain budget processes detached from the general process.

34.     Nonetheless, to date the e-SIGEF had not put into operation mechanisms for
independent verification of the financial reports, such as management or budget
evaluation reports. Further, the CGE has yet to implement mechanisms for drafting
results-based budget control and evaluation processes, although it has been issuing
opinions since 2004 on the Financial Statements of the Ministry of Finance as well as
special audits, which are published on the website of the MEF.

3.3      Project Efficiency 11




10 . This section is based on: Andrade, Margarita; Barletti, Bruno; Mosqueira, Edgardo. July 2008.
"Ecuador Principal Benefits of the new Integrated Financial Management System e-SIGEF" (draft
document).

                                               12
35.     On the basis of evaluations conducted by the Bank during supervision and
independently by the Government, the financial benefits generated by the reforms were
estimated, over and above the benefits of improvements in treasury, budget management,
control and transparency of public expenditures. These are listed below.

Costs of Project Implementation 12

36.    The project required a total of US$ 15.7 million, compared to an originally budget
amount of US$ 18.8 million. This amount incorporates actual values as of December
2008 and the expenses forecasted for January and February 2009. The total amount
includes the resources from the Project Preparation Facility, the Loan Agreement and the
matching resources. Of the total, 49.6 percent corresponds to funds provided under a
Bank loan and 50.4 percent to matching funds provided by the MEF.

37.   Project's budget estimate at appraisal, actual execution of expenditures by
component and loan amount, and partial cancelation are included the following chart:

                                                                      Total Loan/ Financed by the
                                                 Actual
                    Appraisal Estimate (USD                              Amount      Government (2)
     Components                             Expenditures (USD
                         millions) (1)                                financed by
                                               millions) (2)
                                                                        IBRD (3)
 Consolidation of                            3.19                0.63           n.a.            n.a.
SIGEF
 Expansion of                                6.58              1.30               n.a.              n.a.
SIGEF
Upgrading of                                 4.53              6.10               n.a.              n.a.
SIGEF's
technological base
Development of                               1.03              0.50               n.a.              n.a.
CGE's audit
capacity
SIGEF                                        0.42              1.50               n.a.              n.a.
organizational &
functional support
Administration &                             2.95              2.70               n.a.               n.a
Evaluation
Total Project                               18.70             12.73              7.89              4.84
Costs
Loan                                     --                   --                 4.50         --
Cancelations
Front end Fee                                0.14                                0.14
Total Financing                             18.84
    (1) Figures taken from the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)



11
   This section is based on Andrade, Margarita; Barletti, Bruno; Mosqueira, Edgardo. July 2008. "Ecuador
Principal Benefits of the new Integrated Financial Management System e-SIGEF" (draft document).
12
   According to: Ecuador Public Sector Financial Management Project. Ministry of Finance, Government
of Ecuador. February 2009. Informe Preliminar de Cierre del Proyecto (Preliminary Project Closing
Report). Quito, Ecuador.

                                                  13
       (2) Figures taken from the Government Project Preliminary Closing Report ­ February 2009
       (3) Figure taken from the actual disbursements executed by the Bank


Efficiency in Public Financial Management

38.     E-SIGEF currently operates with the Single Treasury Account. It was created by
MEF as part of the Project's reforms for administering all budgetary and extra-budgetary
revenues and expenditures. It is also a tool to consolidate all financial information and
control expenditures and revenue execution. The advantages from this structural,
conceptual and functional change in the budgetary processes include: virtual accounts
with expenditure quotas, virtual transactions validated by MEF, `real-time' transaction
processing, a supplier database, and automatic accounting of transactions performed by
participating agencies. (See Annex 6L).

Transparency and Control in Budget Management

39.    Transparency and control in budget management and control were also improved
with the e-SIGEF system, including: enforcing of the principle of budget legality;
tracking of budget execution; control of resources generated by agencies; transparent
payment of goods and services from suppliers; and transparent payroll payment.

40.    The overall level of efficiency, effectiveness and transparency in PFM improved
with implementation of the e-SIGEF system, leading to savings and a reduction in
opportunities for corruption. These included the following:

           Predictability of payments for provided goods and services. The e-SIGEF system
           reduced the discretionary power of employees of the Executing Units to decide
           which supplier to pay, thus ensuring more predictable payments. For example,
           payments are now made within a maximum of 22 days from the date the invoice
           is received. Also, via the High Direction of Executing Units (UDAFs), 13 the
           sectors (ministries and others), and the MEF can electronically track the payment
           status of goods and services in `real-time'.
           Enhanced tax supervision. The e-SIGEF system can check the existence and
           validity of the Taxpayer Registration Number (RUC) of each supplier, so that the
           Internal Revenue Service (SRI) tax number is cross-checked prior to payment.
           Thus, payments are made only to suppliers who are duly registered in the SRI and
           whose payment vouchers are authorized. This e-SIGEF functionality can be the
           basis for approving measures to enable the retention of payments from suppliers
           with tax debts, aimed at ensuring payment or establishing debt compensation
           measures.




13
     Financial Administration Unit.

                                                    14
        "Floating debt". "Floating debt" (or delays) is generated when the amounts
        scheduled/committed by the Executing Units cannot be honored in a timely
        manner by the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury. It results from a lack of
        communication between the Cash Plan (which under the previous system was
        prepared by Budget) and liquidity management by the Sub-secretariat of the
        Treasury. Prior to e-SIGEF, an Executing Unit could record an operation and the
        only control was the ceiling of the assigned budget amount, without Treasury
        being informed of the obligations (cash flow). This generated obligations that
        could not be met within the budget period, especially at the end of the fiscal year.
        Thus, every year there was a "floating" amount. For example, in December 2006,
        the "floating amount" was US$ 991.3 million; and in December 2007 the
        accumulated amount was US$ 1,389.2 million. 14 The previous system lacked
        controls to avoid this situation, leading to cash rationing. Over time,
        implementation of e-SIGEF will eliminate "floating debt", insofar as there can be
        no obligations outside the system. In addition, the following control mechanisms
        will assist the "purging" of "floating debt":
             A steep reduction in advance operations, which were not recorded in the old
             system (only in the accounts).
             Elimination of expenditure operations performed by the Executing Units that
             were recorded retrospectively and not authorized by the Subsecretariat of the
             Budget.
             Rationalization of supplier payments by requiring their identification and
             cross-referenced information on the supplier's RUC with information in the
             SRI (as noted above).
             Reduction of commitments and payments without prioritization of their
             hierarchical levels (e.g., Financial Management of the Executing Units, the
             respective Ministries). This prioritization could not be assessed in the previous
             system.

Savings generated by the implementation of reforms supported by the Project.

41.    The fiscal savings generated by the project can be broken down into several
categories described in the following table. They represent savings to Ecuador of
US$ 69.9 million per year. (Annex 3 includes a more detailed analysis on the savings
generated by these reforms).

                                     Item                                           Amount (Million
                                                                                     USD per year)
Savings from Fiscal Cash Control through the Unique Treasury                                      5.0


14
  This amount does not refer to pending debts at the end of a certain year that are scheduled to be paid in
the first months of the next year (accrued but not paid as of December 31). It refers to obligations not
covered in the fiscal year and that appear as outstanding obligations accumulating over various years.

                                                   15
Account
Savings from Payroll-based Salary Payment of Public Servants (1)                                                            52.5
Savings from Floating Debt Reduction                                                                                        10.0
Savings from Service Costs and Maintenance of Accounts (2)                                                                   2.4
Total Savings                                                                                                               69.9
(1) USD 4.4 million/month
(2) USD 1 million regarding maintenance of accounts in private banks; and USD 1.4 millions from Central Bank and Subsecretariat of
the Treasury services


3.4       Rating of Project Objectives

42.    Based how the Project met its objectives (PDOs), its overall design and
implementation, and its estimated saving to the Government, the following overall rating
is suggested:

The overall result of the project is considered: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The result of the first objective ("Enhance effectiveness and transparency in public
financial management in Ecuador") is considered: Satisfactory.

43.    Through the implemented reforms, it has been possible to achieve an important
improvement in financial management, budget and treasury management capacities of the
public finance governing entities. The progress made in terms of the control and
availability of timely and reliable information was significant, as was the reduction of the
need for short-term funding. The reforms strengthened the overall level of transparency
and accountability of Ecuador's PFM system.

The result of the second objective ("Contribute to strengthened governance through an
independent verification of the integrity of the government's financial reports") is
considered: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

44.     The system enabled improvements in the control of public resource management
in various aspects (noted above), but it still lacks various modules and indicators in topics
that would help to strengthen an independent verification of the financial reports and the
results-based budget control and audit processes have not been applied in practice.

4. Risks of Sustainability of the Project Achievements

45.     The overall risk to development outcomes are considerate Moderate The principal
risks that could affect sustainability of the Project objectives in the medium term are
described below.

Risk to e-SIGEF sustainability (Moderate)

46.   The sustainability of the e-SIGEF system relates to issues that have not yet been
completed. These include the design, implementation and operation of pending modules;

                                                               16
the use of the information for management purposes; dissemination and transparency of
the information to the public; and discretion in the application of exceptions within the
system. An associated risk is that, to operate adequately, the e-SIGEF system needs
permanent maintenance and upgrades in IT and computer-related systems and adequate
functioning of the interfaces between the applications and systems. Likewise, the
technical team will need to have some continuity, not only at the level of the system, but
also in terms of management of the data and information and in the interaction with the
other entities.. To mitigate these risks the Government may implement the sustainability
plan agreed with the Bank at the closing of the project and also described in the
Government's Preliminary Report on the Project's closing.

Risk of inadequate supporting regulations (Significant):

47.     The availability of a tool for treasury and budget management clearly enhances
the efficient use of public resources, yet it may also introduce the risk of more discretion
regarding use of the available liquidity in the Central Government, with the purpose of
promoting public spending that is not necessarily sustainable over time. There are at least
three aspects in which the introduction of reforms would help to mitigate this risk:

   Develop regulations on fiscal discipline in the medium-term so as to limit the growth
   cycle public outlays in general and in specific areas (current expenditure, investment
   expenses, level of fiscal deficit and/or of indebtedness etc.).

   Ensure compliance with deadlines for key processes, such as the close of the budget
   of the prior year, deadlines for modifying the prior year's budget, and defining budget
   ceilings and the timely registration of indebtedness or of financing operations.

   Provide the public with complete, timely and easily understandable information on
   the budget process, budget execution and impact, any budget modifications made
   during the year, the expenditure priorities and any changes, and variations in balances
   and treasury indicators. An informed follow-up by civil society in these areas can
   provide a useful counterweight to ensure debate and oversight of the country's budget
   priorities.
Risk of resistance to further extension of the system (Significant):

48.     The migration from the client/server system to a centralized public management
system (e-SIGEF) implies that both the autonomous and decentralized entities may lose a
certain degree of autonomy in their budget execution, both in terms of the resources they
receive from the General Budget and regarding the resources generated from their self-
management efficiencies. This could result in a number of these institutions being
opposed to the change process of enhancing public transparency of the accounts and
therefore they may try to limit implementation of the e-SIGEF system. Depending on the
political influence of each institution, this opposition could hinder implementation of the
project and even lead to changes in the project definitions and objectives. To mitigate this
risk the Government may complete the implementation of measures aimed to make
publicly available the information provided by the system. This will create public

                                            17
awareness of fiscal management in each entity and will create citizen's demand for the
operation and expansion of the system.

49.      To date, the e-SIGEF has been implemented primarily in the Central Government.
In this regard, it will be important to manage the extension of e-SIGEF to the largest
subnational governments, as they can influence decisions taken at the national level. The
project included the extension of its reforms to the subnational level of government.
However, due to the delays in the implementation of the new e-SIGEF it was impossible,
during the life of the project, extend its application to municipal governments. Besides,
the autonomy of local governments prevents the Central Government to automatically
apply the new e-SIGEF to local governments. To overcome this risk dialogue
mechanisms may need to be initiated to communicate the benefits of the Project and
facilitate the adaptation of the system to local government particular legal and operational
needs.

5. Bank and Government Performance Assessment

5.1 Bank Performance: Moderately Satisfactory

50.    The Bank's performance is divided in two phases: the preparation of the project
and project follow-up during implementation.

a. Evaluation of the Quality at Entry: Moderately Satisfactory. As discussed in Section
   3, the overall project objectives were particularly relevant and aligned with the
   general development objectives of the country. Operational, technological and
   financial implementation aspects, as well as the possible impact of the project, were
   adequately prepared. Three weaknesses in project design were: i) lack of a strategy
   and a plan to overcome the problems identified during the project design on the
   operation of SIGEF; ii) an inadequate assessment of the implementation feasibility of
   the component aimed to support the Comptroller General Office, and ii) weak design
   of monitoring and evaluation instruments. In the first case, as explained before during
   project preparation the Government and the Bank identified some important
   weaknesses in the operation of SIGEF that should be addressed in the project design.
   In the case of the Comptroller Office, capacity-building was essential for the cross-
   agency integration aspects of the project. However, expectations regarding this
   component were kept low, and the project results years later are more moderate. On
   the other hand, the evaluation indicators were rather general in some areas (which
   possibly reflected the tension between sustaining the system in force at that time or
   making progress in the redesign.
b. Evaluation of the Quality in Project Supervision: Satisfactory. The Bank
   developed a strategy that supported development of the existing system while at the
   same time encouraging internal discussion on its limitations. This was necessary as
   the Government needed to continue operating the existing financial management
   system through SIGEF, solving the technical and operational problems of the system
   in use at the time. The Project continued to operate essentially on short-term

                                            18
      operational plans, aimed at maintaining the existing system. The strategic approach
      was to encourage an internal debate on the benefits of moving toward an web-based
      system followed the following logic:
         The Bank encouraged technical dialogue among the key users of the system,
         through regular meetings of the System User Committee (made up of the Budget,
         Treasury and Accounting offices of the MEF) and workshops with external users,
         such as the Auditor General, the Internal Revenue Service and the Central Bank.
         The objective of these meetings was to identify the main technical and operational
         challenges facing the system and the limitations of the overall financial
         management framework. This dialogue formed the basis for consensuses on the
         need for a thorough transformation of Ecuador's PFM system.
         Once consensus was reached, in January 2006 the Bank organized a number of
         international workshops with government officials working on PFM systems in
         other countries in the region (Argentina, Colombia, Guatemala and Peru). Many
         of these countries had resolved similar implementation issues that Ecuador faced,
         including implementation of the Single Treasury Account for centralized
         payments, the use of web-based technology, and to enhance the level of
         transparency of public spending.
         In parallel, the Bank provided several international experts who developed
         solutions to the principal problems facing SIGEF's implementation.
         In addition, the Bank encouraged Ecuadorian authorities to visit other countries
         that had developed similar systems (e.g. Guatemala), to learn from their
         experiences in introducing similar reforms. Guatemala's experience (with
         technical and financial support from a separate Bank project) was similar to the
         Ecuadorian case, in terms of the technical challenges of creating a centralized IT
         system in a deconcentrated political structure. The Guatemalan experience
         provided key lessons learned and best practices that were applied by the Project.

51.     The dialogue encouraged by the Bank played a key role in assisting the
Government to take the decision to introduce reforms in the Public Financial
Management framework and change the overall technological model. This technical
dialogue was successful despite the fact that between 2005 and the Project's closing date
(February 2009), Ecuador had 11 different Ministers of Economy and Finance, and the
project had 8 different Project Coordinators. To a certain degree, that the project was
successfully sustained and implemented demonstrates the Bank's and client's ability to
maintain a technical dialogue on the importance of the project to the country's overall
development.

5.2      Government Performance

(a) Government Performance Assessment: Moderately Satisfactory

52.   The high turnover of authorities in the MEF hampered commitment and
ownership of the Government with regard to the Project, particularly in the first years

                                             19
(2003-2005). Moreover, the high turnover of authorities implied that time was needed for
the new authorities to understand the Project, its objectives and significance. The degree
of commitment and leadership by the Government was lower at the beginning of the
Project. The project gained momentum during the first half of 2006, when the MEF took
the decision to adopt the Guatemalan system as a reference point for e-SIGEF; and in
2007-08, when there was considerable support for the project within and outside the MEF,
enabling the Project to be concluded.

53.     The Project was implemented within the planned budget, even with a balance that
justified cancellation of one part of the Loan. The Ecuadorian authorities also assumed
the costs for maintenance and sustainability of the project when closed.

6. Lessons Learned

54.      The following were crucial lessons learned:
         Project implementation was strengthened when there was clear leadership,
         participation and empowerment by the MEF authorities and the main users of the
         financial management processes were present.
         Empowering authorities and users to define the reforms they needed was a key
         aspect of successful implementation. A key lesson is that reform ownership by the
         Government creates a solid basis for project success, even over the medium-term.
         The preparation of solid analytical work by the Bank provided important elements
         to encourage the Government to take decisions on the implementation of the new
         systems and the reform of PFM practices, such as the introduction of the Single
         Treasury Account.
         Ongoing technical support from the Bank, particularly in the phase when the new
         e-SIGEF system was launched (January 2008), provided Government an
         opportunity to see the Bank's commitment to make the project successful. This
         lesson is particularly important considering that this was the time when the
         Government was evaluating and reviewing the role of the Bank in the country and
         when other projects were canceled.
         Leveraging cross-regional best practices was a key success factor and the Bank
         played a key role in bringing together regional government authorities and
         technical experts as a means to maintain reform momentum.




                                            20
ANNEXES




  21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                       Percentage of
                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest amount executed
        Components               Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD      in comparison
                                    millions)         millions)      with estimated at
                                                                        Appraisal
 Consolidation of SIGEF                       3.19              0.63      19.65%
 Expansion OF SIGEF                           6.58              1.30      19.37%
 Upgrade       of     SIGEF's
                                              4.53                 6.10      135.03%
technological base
 Development of CGE's audit
                                              1.03                 1.50      346.10%
capacity
 SIGEF organizational and
                                              0.42                 0.50          49.88%
functional support
Administration and Evaluation               2.95                   2.70          90.00%
Total Baseline Cost                        18.70                  12.73
Project Preparation Facility
Period
Physical Contingencies                                                            0.00
                                              0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                                               0.00
                                            0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                         0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                   0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.14                   0.00           .00
Total Financing Required                   18.84                   0.00

(b) Financing

                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds                    Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                   4.98           0.00            .00
International Bank for
                                                          13.86           0.00            .00
Reconstruction and Development




                                         22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component: Key Performance Indicators

Outputs by Component: Key Performance Indicators for the different Project Components According to the PAD of February
200215
          Key                      Status 2000-2005                              Status 2006                                        Status February 2009
      Performance
       Indicator
                                                                          I. Consolidation of the SIGEF
     1.1 Number of        As at November 2000, 22 public       As at September 2006, 119 public entities used     Modules: Budget; Accounting; Treasury.
     Modules in Use.      entities used the 3 basic modules    the 3 basic modules, 84 the Payroll module and 1   The Payroll is an ad hoc application that is not part of the
                          (Accounting, Budget, Treasury), 13   (MEF) the Inventory module.                        central architecture of the system.
                          entities used the Payroll module                                                        Sub-Modules:
                          and 2 the Inventory Module.                                                             In Budget: Formulation; Execution; Closing; Opening;
                                                                                                                  Reforms.
                                                                                                                  In Accounting: Closing; Opening; Reconciliation
                                                                                                                  In Treasury: Drafts and Transfers; Account
                                                                                                                  Administration; Interaction with BCE; Rejections (links to
                                                                                                                  accounting mechanism)
     1.2 Number of        In 2004, the Institutional SIGEF     In 2006, the Institutional SIGEF was               100% coverage of Central Government 3,034 units use e-
     Entities using the   was implemented in 104 financial     implemented in 119 financial entities (of 2,395)   SIGEF and 50 small units use the Institutional SIGEF.
     SIGEF.               entities (of 2,366) of the Central   and in 45 decentralized units (of 242) of the      151 Implementing units of the NFPS, which are
                          Government.                          Central Government.                                equivalent to 101 Entities of the NFPS (outside the CG)
                                                                                                                  operate with e-SIGEF.
     1.3 Offices:         49% in 2002; 83% for 2003            n.a.                                               At the moment, there are Help Desks for users, at the
                                                                                                                  national level. The concept of Offices is not applied.




15
  Taken from the document "Diagnóstico de los Avances del Proyecto y Medición de los Indicadores de Resultado e Impacto" (Diagnostic of Project Progress
and Measurement of the Outcome and Impact indicators), Cueva, October 2006; and from Output 3.3 of the "Informe de Consultoría de Estudio y Medición de
Indicadores de la Línea Base del Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público" (Consultancy report of the study and measurement of baseline
indicators of the Public Financial Management Project), prepared by Margarita Andrade.


                                                                                23
       Key                  Status 2000-2005                     Status 2006                                         Status February 2009
  Performance
    Indicator
1.4 Number of        n.a.                      By 2005, the Integrating SIGEF was                   100% coverage of Central Government entities. 3,034
Entities using the                             implemented in 2,323 entities (of 3,586) of the      units use the e-SIGEF and 50 small units use the
Integrating                                    NFPS and 45 decentralized units (of 242) of the      Institutional SIGEF. 151 Implementing units of the
SIGEF                                          Central Government.                                  NFPS,
                                                                                                    which are equivalent to 101 Entities of the NFPS (outside
                                                                                                    the CG) operate with e-SIGEF.
1.5 Percentage of    n.a.                      In 2005, of the budget execution of the Central      99.9% of the Central Government budget was executed in
transactions of                                Government, 94.2% of the income and 95.2% of         e-SIGEF.
the central                                    the expenses were processed by the Sub-
administration                                 secretariat of Accounting through SIGEF.
processed
through the
SIGEF: 90% in
2003.
                                                         II. Extension of SIGEF Coverage
2.1 Number of        n.a.                      In 2005, the Institutional SIGEF was                 94 Decentralized and Autonomous Entities use the e-
affiliated                                     implemented in 10 autonomous or decentralized        SIGEF in February 2009. Of these 94 entities, 27 are
(Decentralized                                 entities (of 93), 2 sectional governments (of        Universities being integrated into the system.
and                                            1,034) and 0 public enterprises (of 64).
Autonomous)
entities using the
SIGEF
2.2 Percentage of    n.a.                      Except for the municipalities of Quito and           Consolidated Information of the NFPS (% of entities):
municipal                                      Ambato and the Provincial Council of Loja,           CG: 84%
expenses                                       there were no activities for extending coverage in   D&A: 69%
consolidated and                               the sectional governments.                           PE: 56%
reported. 25% in                                                                                    SPNP: 62%
2002; 50% in                                                                                        Non-processable Information (% of total):
2003; 62% in                                                                                        CG: 15%
2004                                                                                                D&A: 14%
                                                                                                    PE: 7%
                                                                                                    NFPS: 12%




                                                                 24
     Key                    Status 2000-2005                               Status 2006                                       Status February 2009
 Performance
  Indicator
                                                        III. Upgrade of the Technological Base of the SIGEF
3.1 Availability   The web-based applications started     Not available in 2006, implementation planned     The e-SIGEF system is based on web-based technology
of Access to the   in 2003 . The first one is reception   for the new SIGEF in March 2007 for the Central that operates in almost 100% of the Implementing units
web-based          of the pro forma budget online         Government. In 2006, 25 Central Government        of the CG as there are 50 small IUs that do not have web
version.           through an application dedicated to    entities whose databases with the Institutional   access because of their geographical location and
                   this purpose..This process has been    SIGEF were centralized in the MEF, with access technological limitations. They send flat files through the
                   followed in the subsequent four        for users through the Citrix Metaframe            Integrating SIGEF.
                   years.                                 technology (web emulation) with dedicated
                                                          links. These 25 entities (plus the Treasury)
                                                          represented 78% of the Central Government
                                                          Budget. Through the Integrating SIGEF,
                                                          approximately 2,600 entities reported on Budget
                                                          execution, i.e. 99.4% of the Central Government
                                                          budget. By the end of 2005, the
                                                          www.SIGEF.gov.ec portal became the link
                                                          between entities and the MEF, with the use of
                                                          various web-based applications for sending and
                                                          requesting information. These applications
                                                          interacted with the databases of some SIGEF
                                                          applications of the MEF.
                                                   IV. Ensure organizational and functional support for the SIGEF
5.1 Approval of    The SIGEF does not have a              The MEF, with technical assistance from the       Conceptual framework redefined in 2007.
conceptual         documented conceptual base.            project, was redefining the conceptual            The conceptual documents and the documents of the
documentation                                             framework of the Ecuadorian Financial             system architecture have been issued and approved.
of the SIGEF.                                             Management System, based on which the models
                                                          applied in the Republic of Guatemala would be
                                                          adopted.
5.2 Regulations    The financial management model         The MEF, with technical assistance from the       Reforms to the regulations made in the course of 2007 and
issued.            has technical regulations, issued      project, had made various reforms to the          2008 for implementing the new financial management
                   through agreement 182, in the          regulations according to natural evolution of the model.
                   applicable Official Register.          system.
                                                          V. Financial Audit Capacity-Building of the CGE




                                                                          25
       Key                   Status 2000-2005                                Status 2006                                         Status February 2009
  Performance
    Indicator
4.1                 No online access                       The CGE has no online access, but the new           Component on strengthening of the CGE concluded on 31
Implementation                                             SIGEF plans to have online access to have the       January 2009. There were 4 pilot audits (CONCOPE, IAE,
of the SIGEF in                                            necessary base information for its work.            CENASE, Min. Tourism); the personnel was trained; the
the CGE                                                                                                        methodology was delivered and the software was
                                                                                                               implemented.
4.2 Auditors'       The CGE starts a review and            The audit report of Budget Execution of the         (Since 2004) The CGE issues Opinions on the Financial
opinion Treasury    training process in the principal      Central Government of year 2004 shows various       Statements of the MEF (according to the Law of the
reports in 2002     reports and consultations of the       weaknesses. Particularly, it shows that there are   Auditor General). Besides, the CGE conducts special
& 2003; budget      SIGEF which, from a control            no management indicators to measure the             audits according to a program agreed upon with the MF,
reports and         perspective, are required for          compliance of budget execution or to evaluate       the results of which are published (entirely) on the MEF
financial           generating information of the audits   the degree of efficiency and economy of the         portal.
statements of the   of public institutions.                resources, and the degree of user satisfaction      The CGE does not conduct management audits and the
Central                                                    with the Annual Operational Plan and Specific       audit time is irrelevant as an analysis criterion. There have
Government in                                              Planning.                                           been quality analyses of the expenses of the MF, but these
2003 and 2004.                                                                                                 are not results-based audits.
                                                                                                               The Special Audits conducted by the Internal Audit of the
                                                                                                               MF show the relevance of analyzed sensitive topics in
                                                                                                               relation to the state's financial management. The results of
                                                                                                               the special audits are published entirely on the MF portal.
                                                                                                               Besides the special audits of the CGE, the suggestion is to
                                                                                                               include an indicator that obliges to make an annual Audit
                                                                                                               of operation of the Integrated Financial Management
                                                                                                               System e-SIGEF.
4.3 Application     The CGE has signed an agreement        The process for consultancy of an audit firm to     The CATT methodology is being applied successfully
of CATT in          with the MEF, within the               take charge of the co-sourcing had been started,    after an international tender and having hired a supplier for
government          framework of strengthening the         for implementing and institutionalizing the new     this purpose (INTEROP) in 2008.
audits.             audit and control capacity.            audit methodology in the CGE. The terms of
                    Agreements between the MEF and         reference were being adjusted for calling the
                    the CGE have started on: the           tender. The project had provided the necessary
                    provision of computer equipment        computer equipment to strengthen the
                    for the CGE and the                    technological capacity of the CGE, with a view
                    implementation of audit co-            to implementation of the co-sourcing.
                    sourcing for the CGE.




                                                                             26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Savings Generated by the Project16

The sum of all savings categories described below could represent savings for the
Ecuadorian State of US$69.4 million per year. The savings generated by the project can
be broken down into the following categories:

     Cash Management and Single Treasury Account: Prior to introduction of the reforms,
     the Ministry of Finance faced a lack of liquidity in the Ministry of Finance, which
     obliged it to issue CETES17, even though there were idle resources in the accounts of
     the implementing units . The Ministry of Finance did not know about these idle
     balances as it did not have a single cash control. Thus, between October 2006 and
     December 2007, the Ministry of Finance issues CETES for an amount of US$1,118
     million, generating an interest payment of US$4.9 million, while the different
     implementing units of the Central Government had unused resources in their
     accounts for an average amount of US$271 million per month. In 2008, no CETES
     were issued. This way, since 2008, based on the improved treasury management
     achieved through the reforms there have been savings for an average amount of US$5
     million per year, which was the average amount paid every year in interests on the
     CETES.

     Savings from payroll management: With the introduction of e-SIGEF and e-SIPREM,
     it has been possible to purge the public servants database, with the implementing
     units regularizing their payrolls, including only the truly filled positions and
     excluding the vacancies. As at June 2009, these payrolls included 362,049 filled
     positions and vacancies in the Central Government, which accounted for a referential
     wage cost of US$182.7 million per month. This amount was deposited in the so-
     called "T accounts" of each entity (with which the previous version of the system
     operated) and covered both filled positions and vacancies. The non-used balances
     remained in the accounts of the entities and were not returned to the Treasury. When
     implementing e-SIGEF and e-SIPREM, it became clear that there were 11,593
     vacancies with a referential cost of US$4 million per month and 350,456 filled
     positions with a referential cost of US$178.2 million per month. Starting in June 2008,
     payments were made only for the filled positions. If we assume that the distribution
     of filled positions and vacancies is constant, then since introducing the mentioned
     system, the referential annual amount saved is US$52.5 million.




16
   This section is based on the results described in the technical reports of Bruno Barletti, Jorge Rodríguez
and Carmen Zuleta, and in the document "Principal Benefits of the New Integrated Financial Management
System e-SIGEF" prepared by Bruno Barletti, Margarita Andrade and Edgardo Mosqueira.
17
   Treasury Certificates which the Government puts on the market. The CETES are short-term debt with
annual renewal.

                                                    27
   Savings from Reduction of the Floating Debt: To the extent that the e-SIGEF has
   enabled a reduction of the floating debt to a minimum, the estimated savings total
   US$10 million, assuming that only 1% of the total floating debt accumulated as at
   2007 is saved (US$1,389 million). This reduction of the floating debt would be the
   result of a drastic decrease of advance payments that were not registered in the old
   SIGEF; the elimination of expense operations associated to budget reforms that were
   not authorized but executed by the implementing units ; the enhanced quality in the
   allocation of resources by the Sub-secretariat of Budgets as the discretion in budget
   allocation has been lowered; more order in the processes for selecting suppliers in
   view of the fact that the e-SIGEF demands identification of the suppliers (crossing of
   the RUC with the SRI); the enhanced quality in programming of the expenses by
   recovering the implementing units ' confidence regarding the availability of
   resources; and a reduction of non-prioritized operations by the applicable levels
   (headquarters of the Implementing units ) which could not be visualized in the
   system before.

   Savings from the Service and Maintenance Costs of Accounts in Private Banks: The
   implementing units maintained around 12,000 accounts in private banks, with
   significant balances and movements that gave rise to maintenance and service fees.
   At the moment, many of these accounts have been cancelled as the implementing
   units pay their suppliers electronically through the Single Treasury Account. If we
   consider an account maintenance cost of between US$7 and US$10 and other
   operational costs related to the issuance of checks, account statements and others, we
   can estimate that the management of each account cost between US$84 and US$100
   per year. Estimates are that there were 12,000 accounts, so the annual cost paid by the
   State for these accounts totaled US$1 ­ 1.2 million.

   Savings related to the Service and Maintenance Cost of Accounts in the Central
   Bank: The old system incurred in costs for the services delivered by the Central Bank,
   both related to transfers to the "T accounts" of the implementing units and transfers
   of funds from the "T Accounts" to the accounts of the implementing units in private
   banks. The savings from eliminating these costs with the new e-SIGEF is estimated at
   around US$1.4 million per year.




                                           28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                Responsibility/
Names                           Title                                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Paul Sisk                                                                       Task Manager
Supervision/ICR
Edgardo Mosqueira               Senior Public Sector Specialist         LCSPS   Task Manager
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro        Senior Procurement Specialist           LCSPT   Fiduciary
Margarita Andrade               Consultant                              LCSPS   Financial Management
Bruno Barletti                  Consultant                              LCSPS   Financial Management
Henry Forero Ramirez            Senior Information Officer              CITPO   IT Specialist
Maria Lucy Giraldo              Senior Procurement Specialist           LCSPT   Fiduciary
Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto         Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM   Fiduciary
Carmen Machicado                Operations Officer                      LCSPS   Operations
Marcelo Amador Osorio           Consultant                              LCSPT   Fiduciary
Jeffrey James Rinne             Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.            LCSPS   Civil Service
Carmen L. Romero                Junior Professional Associate           LCSPS   Operations
Mario Francisco Sangines        Senior Public Sector Specialist         ECSPE   Financial Management
Eduardo Somensatto              Country Manager                         LCCCO   Advisory
Carmen Zuleta Calderon          Consultant                              LCSPS   Financial Management

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project
Cycle                                     USD'000 (including travel &
                   No. of staff weeks
                                          consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                            6                      29.91
  FY02                           13                      80.64
  FY03                            1                       4.48
  FY04                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                    0.00
Total:                           20                     115.03
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                    0.00
  FY02                                                    0.00
  FY03                            7                      57.16
  FY04                            8                      90.15
  FY05                           17                      84.03
  FY06                           20                     125.49
  FY07                           31                     146.40
  FY08                           40                     199.20
  FY09                           28                       0.00
Total:                          151                     702.43



                                                  29
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    30
Annex 6: Project Supporting Documents

   A. MOSTA Project Results

The MOSTA Project implemented the following reforms:

   By transforming the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit into the Ministry of
   Economy and Finance, it assumed competence for Public Investments.
   The steering role of the Government Accounting System went from the Auditor
   General of the State to the MEF, which was explicitly stated in the new Organic
   Statute of the MEF and in the draft Organic Law on Financial Management which is
   not in effect.
   Modernization of Public Debt Management, with implementation of the Foreign Debt
   Management and Administration System ­ SIGADE, acquired from UNCTAD.
   Modernization of the Sub-systems of the Budget, Treasury and Accounting with
   implementation of a new computer system for financial management called SIGEF.
   The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury of the Nation was implemented, as well as the
   SIGEF Treasury application, as a key component to improve management of resource
   transfers to the different institutions of the Central Government and the other Sectors.
   For the SIGEF of the National Treasury to enter into daily operation in the MEF, the
   institutional account management scheme in the Central Bank of Ecuador was
   modified. The "I" accounts (self-management income) and the "E" accounts
   (execution accounts) were eliminated and a "T" account was created (transfers) for
   each public institution. We should underline that the mechanism for unifying
   accounts is in force for the entire public sector, not only for institutions with the
   SIGEF, which strengthens the new public financial management model.
   Management of the Sub-secretariat of Budgets improved with the SIGEF Global
   application, introducing new concepts and processes for participatory preparation of
   the budget, budget consolidation and follow-up of execution.
   With the Sub-secretariat of Government Accounting, implementation of the module
   for accounting consolidation of the SIGEF Global started.

The MOSTA Proposal for modernizing the Public Financial Management was based on
the conceptual model and the model of deconcentrated management of the SIGEF, the
implementation of which in Central Government institutions as at January 2001 achieved
the following results:

   SIGEF Institucional in operation in 20 institutions (15 Ministries, Presidency, Vice-
   presidency, Supreme Election Tribunal, Constitutional Tribunal and Auditor General
   of the State).
   62 Provincial Directions of the Health, Education and Agriculture sectors at the
   national level.
   The budget operated in SIGEF accounted for 84.7% of the Central Government
   Budget, including the budget of the National Treasury which considers the amount of
   the public debt.

                                           31
   Deployment of the new system implied an intense and sustained process of
   conceptual and operational training of the users and system administrators. Besides,
   this training gave rise to a positive effect in the integration and revaluation of human
   resources of the Public Sector.
   The investment made by the Government of Ecuador through the MOSTA in
   equipment and technology for the MEF and the 82 beneficiary institutions exceeded
   five million dollars, and includes the provision of a base platform in Hardware
   (Servers, work stations, printers, UPS), the installation of local area networks,
   Software (licenses for the operational system and database) etcetera.
   Regarding legal aspects, the MOSTA resources supported the development and
   management for the implementation of Ministerial Agreement 182 published in
   Official Register 249 dated 22-01-2001, which contains regulations on accounting,
   budgets, treasury and the implementation and operation of the SIGEF, which would
   ultimately be the only legal instrument for leveraging introduction of the new SIGEF
   model.




                                           32
B: Limitations of the Conceptual Model and Operation of SIGEF

   Problems related to the deconcentrated technological arrangement of the
   SIGEF. Various countries in the region adopted similar technologies, when the
   technological system and the means of communication were very expensive and the
   alternatives limited. This gave rise to serious technological issues, associated with
   the difficulty of synchronizing interfaces between the different data bases and
   systems, with high costs for computer upgrades (software and hardware) and
   obsolete software; and at a growing marginal cost for incorporating new financial
   entities. In the last ten years, this architecture has been replaced by a centralization
   scheme and the use of web-based technology. Thus, different public entities can have
   autonomy a regards their financial and budget administration, without this implying
   a physical deconcentration of the computer systems.
   Lack of actual integration of the system. The system architecture and the
   interrelation between its different components did not allow for an effective
   integration of the financial management process. The model starts from an
   accounting base, which gives rise to the budget classification, with a risk of
   heterogeneity by institution and potential creations and modifications of accounting-
   budget interrelations without supervision from the MEF. In turn, the quality of the
   information varied significantly depending on the entity and the scheme of the
   SIGEF Integrador only made basic controls. The times for consolidation and
   validation were long: at least 60 days, taking into account the legal terms permitted
   for the different entities to report the budget information and the need for further
   processing, validation and consolidation.
   Effective absence of a Single Treasury Account and the lack of key modules. As
   there is no effective single Treasury account, treasury management was subject to
   limitations, with some entities with surpluses and others with deficits in liquidity,
   which gave rise to unnecessary financing costs and difficulties. Other modules were
   not available, such as the modules for interrelations between follow-up, forecasts and
   execution of the public debt; budget programming; a module for asset registration
   and tracking; and a module for the procurement of goods and services.
   Dysfunctional organizational structure of the public sector for the budget
   process. With regard to the budget preparation phase, the proforma budgets were not
   prepared homogenously and they were not sent to the MEF within the required terms.
   Budget programming did not guide spending, it lacked a sectoral vision and it
   provided weak links between budget management and treasury management. There
   were no real links between planning, annual operational plans and budgets of the
   entities: the presence of institutional objectives, if any, was essentially rhetoric. The
   Ministries heading the sector had a very limited or no role for defining,
   implementing, following or correcting the strategic guidelines of their area.
   High level of discretion in budget execution. The control of effective use of the
   transferred resources was very limited, with expense entries reported at the end of
   the budget cycle. There were many, discretional budget modifications with broad
   action margins in the field of sectors and groups of expenses. At the same time, the


                                           33
   budget execution was often based on rationing criteria based on short-term liquidity,
   which hampered predictability.
   Existence of excessive non-budget accounting operations and entities outside the
   system's control. The implementing units could potentially use excess liquidity for
   non-budget cash operations, such as advance payments, without any entry on
   commitment of the expense.
   Cash requirements (Periodic Cash Programs) of the institutions were not
   generated automatically by SIGEF. The Subsecretariat of Budgets had to take
   responsibility for the process and generate the Periodic Cash Programs based on the
   programmed execution.
   The Treasury of the Nation and its actual revenue-collection possibilities had
   little impact in Fiscal Cash programming.
   There were control issues (duplications, discretional orders outside the system) in
   the resource transfer system as the SIGEF did not have those controls.
   There was a clearly deficient Fiscal Cash management and there was awareness
   of the existence and growth of floating debt.
   The institutions noticed a lack of synchrony between the budgetary process and
   the institutional cash flow and they took advantage of this weakness in the model.
   There was a lack of control in the granting of advance payments when
   contracting public works.
   There were problems and public complaints regarding uncontrolled off-budget
   transfers to Sectional Governments that were triangulated through the line
   Ministries.
   Due to the technological architecture of SIGEF (client - server), the effort and
   marginal cost required for an extension represented an incremental effort and
   the capacity of the Project and the MEF in this sense were insufficient. Every
   new implementation was more disperse in the national territory and the costs of
   technical assistance, training and support were increasing.




                                          34
C. Cooperation Agreement Ecuador-Guatemala




                                   35
D. Principal Conclusions Regarding Measurement of Indicators

Compliance of the Baseline of 2006
The baseline of October 2006 covered eight areas, for each one of which project and
impact indicators were considered. When having a look at the results for the different
indicators, we can summarize compliance of the baseline by area as follows (baseline
indicators between brackets):

The project outcomes as regards the indicators on coverage of the system are very
positive (IP1 to IP6; II1 to II5).
Coverage of the system is complete at the level of the Central Government, where 99.9%
of the budget was executed in e-SIGEF. The e-SIGEF system automatically generates
consolidated information. The Payroll Application covers 99.9% of the CG entities and
crosses information between the database of the Distributive of the MEF and the Payroll
forwarded by the implementing units .
Some pending issues are the need to extend use of the system at the level of the NFPS --
where 101 entities (outside the CG) are operating with e-SIGEF -- beyond the progress
so far, as well as the inexistence of a module for agreements.

The results in Planning and Programming (IP7 to IP10; II6 to II12) are positive but
there are pending areas, particularly in topics related to results-based programming
and evaluation and the availability of information which the public can understand.
The budget programming system linked to institutional operational plans is available in
99.9% of the CG entities. Since August 2008, there is a governing body for public
procurement (INCOP), which is in force since January 2009, though with some
exceptions. Progress has been made in electronic tenders and in the establishment of a
governing entity for managing an inventory of assets.
The fields of results-based budget programming, budget evaluation and management
indicators have not been developed. There is no budget information and information on
follow-up of public investments that is easily accessible and understandable for the public.

There has been clear progress in Budget Execution, although the wider objectives of
fiscal sustainability were affected by legal reforms and there are still possibilities of the
MEF making payments outside the budget (IP11 to IP19; II13 to II16).
The budget 2008 was executed in the web based systems. The IUs have to use the system
and record their revenues, including self-management revenues, for making payments;
they cannot make changes without prior authorization from the Treasury. The
transactions are processed on a daily basis. The system operated on 99% of all days in
2008, with use limitations when closing the budget. The e-SIGEF provides real-time
electronic information on changes made to the financial program, delivering information
for constantly following up budget modifications. With the system, it is possible to
identify and quantify reforms made outside the system. Most revenues are included in the
budget proposal (proforma), as in 2008 most pre-allocations of the General Budget of the
State were eliminated. The principal constraints are related to legal changes that basically

                                             36
annulled virtually all prior regulations on fiscal accountability. Besides, the MEF can
perform treasury payment operations without these being duly registered in the system
and in the budget.

The planned arrangement for sector governance of the budget has not been
implemented and there is no consolidated budget programming for the NFPS (IP17 to
IP19).
Despite certain improvements in the coverage and progress in the social sector, it is
necessary to widen a sector programming arrangement to the whole NFPS so as to have
overall information and so as to involve sectoral governing bodies in budget formulation
and subsequent approval, with the purpose of the system effectively enabling a more
informed and broader discussion of the budget and its impact on development.

The system has clearly improved management of the Public Debt and the Floating
Debt (IP20 to IP22; II17 to II20).
For the operations processed through the system, from a conceptual perspective it is not
possible to generate new floating debt and the average time of payments to suppliers has
been strongly reduced. The gaps between the programmed and paid foreign debt were the
result of unforeseen operations (prepayments, repurchase or decision of non-payment,
exchange adjustments) that cannot be attributed to the system, annulling the previous
system of advances for debt payments.
In 2008, the figures on previous floating debt became more transparent and explicit goals
as regards floating debt were set in 2009 in the working documents of the MEF.

There has been substantial progress in Treasury and Cash Management operations,
whereby the weakest areas are related to certain risks of discretion and incomplete
reports (IP23 to IP29; II21 to II22).
In 2008, one part of the 9.98 million payments had to be made outside the system, which
had been regularized by the end of the year. The transactions not paid in January-
November 2008 totaled 1,567 versus 1,505,043 payment transactions. Through a web-
based application, voluntarily registered providers can check the status of their payments.
The system performs a cash close every month and its functionality allows for careful
scheduling of the expense phases. The nearly 12,000 accounts which the public
institutions held in private banks in the previous payment process are no longer needed.
The balance of the short-term debt (CETES) in the CG has become marginal.
There are three types of limitations. First of all, many planned regular reports are not yet
available: the order of priority of payments and possible modifications; deviations from
liquidity forecasts; a summary of operations of the CG payment system. Secondly, it is
possible for the MEF to modify the priority of payments ordered by other CG entities,
which may lead to excessive discretion or bottlenecks in the payment process. This does
not seem to have occurred so far but this may be related to the high liquidity there was.
Thirdly, although the system has provided the MED with a large amount of information
and the real possibility of effectively following up treasury management, most of this
information is not distributed outside the MEF, which hampers citizen control.

                                            37
The system has enabled significant progress in the Consistency and Quality of the
Information (IP30 to IP34; II23 to II24).
There do not seem to be any significant discrepancies between the budget ceilings and the
accrued levels measured by the IUs and by the MEF. The entities cannot have excess
expenses for which they do not have the needed income as the system nets the income
and expenditure at the level of each IU. Projects financed with external credit are
included in the state budget, and are charged to the respective source of funding. The
Budget Classifiers of the new e-SIGEF respond to criteria issued by the IMF and are
comparable on an international level, unlike the situation in 2008. The information on
advance payments for public works is available in the MEF portal. For now, no variables
have been included to track pro-poor spending.

Progress is limited as regards Auditability and Accountability, particularly because of
the lack of timely consolidation of the NFPS, the many reports and the results-based
budget management audits (IP35 to IP 39; II25 to II33).
Thanks to the system it is possible for transfers to other entities to be made based on an
approved three-monthly program and to have detailed information in the web portal on
Budget Execution of the CG 24 hours later in relation to real-time, although as at July
2008 this information was available only for expenses (not income). The total and
operating costs of the system are known, but there have been no surveys on user
acceptance of the system.
There are many weaknesses in the field of accountability. The budget settlement suffered
delays (in June 2007 for 2006; in July 2008 for 2007; in July 2009 not yet for 2008).
Although with the system it has been possible to have timely financial information of the
CG and probably of the decentralized and autonomous units as from 2009, the financial
information of the NFPS is not provided in time, particularly the information on public
companies, sectional entities and Social Security. The information for the NFPS is
consolidated only on an annual basis. There are no monthly or formal reports on budget
execution of the CG or the NFPS or on justified budget modifications. The newsletters on
public debts are not always public. There is no publication on public investment
monitoring. Since 2004, the CGE issues opinions on the Financial Statements of the MEF,
besides conducting special audits according to a program agreed upon with the MEF, the
results of which are made public on the MEF portal. However, the CGE does not conduct
any results-based management audits.

In brief, the system has given rise to significant progress for the Ministry of Finance as
the governing entity for budget execution operations, cash and treasury management, the
implementation of a single treasury account, public debt payments and floating debt
control, the inclusion of self-management resources and consistency and quality of the
information. The practically complete coverage of the system in the CG has provided the
Ministry of Finance with essential tools for exercising its role of financial manager of the
State, programming and controlling the budget and cash operations and optimizing
liquidity management.


                                            38
On the other hand, the principal weaknesses are related to use of the system for a
strategic vision of the budget operations (results-based programming and evaluation), the
risks of discretion associated to MEF powers (with regard to cash operations not
registered in the system or changes in the priority of payment orders), the availability of
open and timely public information for following up budget and cash operations (for the
CG and even more so for the NFPS), and the very weak progress as regards results-based
budget audits.




                                            39
E. Pending Actions to Consolidate the new e-SIGEF

The e-SIGEF system is still facing a series of pending issues in some areas for an
integrated achievement of the first overall project objective. Particularly:

A. Some modules and components have not yet been designed or implemented
   (agreements, finance committee) and it has not been possible to effectively measure
   some baseline indicators due to a lack of previous or current information, the
   inexistence of comparable information or the absence of formal definitions for some
   concepts.
B. The effectiveness in fiscal and financial management would be strengthened with
   reports (sound liquidity forecasts, measurement of the priority of payments, monitoring
   of public investments) and with the initially planned modules (management reports,
   budget evaluation, programming of commitments, effective integration between public
   debt programming and the SIGEF) so as to enable management decision-making.
C. The transparency in financial management necessarily requires an open policy for
   public dissemination and explanation of the fiscal data and indicators, both for the
   Central Government and for the NFPS. In this sense, development of the modules and
   reports planned in the baseline (budget execution of the Central Government and of the
   NFPS, Justified monthly modifications, Sectoral Consolidation in the NFPS, Gross base
   budget, Report on the priority of payments) would enhance fiscal transparency. More
   generally, it is necessary for system progress in terms of the availability of reliable and
   timely information for the MEF to be translated into the enhanced availability of clear,
   timely and easily understandable information for citizens.
D. As yet, the system excludes some public sector entities, particularly the Social Security,
   public companies and some local governments. An extension of the coverage is needed
   to effectively track fiscal operations of the non-financial public sector as a whole.
E. The system still lacks various modules or indicators in topics that would be helpful to
   strengthen an independent verification of the financial reports. This includes the
   availability of management reports, budget evaluation reports, information on transfers
   made without information, the availability of an inventory of assets or information on
   contingent liabilities, a technical evaluation of public investments, a result-based
   budget programming and sectoral programming on the level of the governing bodies.
F. The results-based budget audit and control processes are not applied in practice. One
   of the project components included providing the Auditor General (CGE) with the
   necessary computer tools and training so it would be able to audit operation of the
   system. Since 2004, the CGE issues opinions on the Financial Statements of the MEF
   as well as special audits according to a program agreed upon with the MEF, the results
   of which are published on the MEF portal. Nonetheless, the CGE does not conduct any
   results-based management audits or an annual audit on operation of the e-SIGEF.
   Therefore, it has not been possible to measure the different indicators on auditability of
   the baseline (audits of budget execution, parameters regarding times for audits, the
   publication thereof and results-based audits). The integration of the CGE to the budget
   process and the results-based audit are pending tasks.

                                            40
G. From the first half of 2008, the CTI and the SIGEF were integrated in a single
   Technological Direction at the Ministry of Finance, which has units for the
   Development of Solutions, Business Solutions, Coordination of information security,
   Quality Control and Audits, Operations and Production, and User Services and
   Business Intelligence. The Project administration is linked to the Ministry of Finance
   through its Administrative-Financial Coordinator and assistants who are part of the
   Ministry team. As from March 2009, the system is supported, maintained and upgraded
   by human resources from the Ministry of Finance. The Sub-secretariat of Public
   Financial Management in the Ministry is pending (proposal prepared by the Ministry of
   Finance) for operation of the National Financial Management System, once the
   Ministry of Finance institutionalizes the e-SIGEF project.
H. Most users of the e-SIGEF system are considered to be mobile, i.e. they can access the
   system from the institutions, private homes, cyber cafés, free wireless access points etc.
   For increasing security, it is necessary to provide this type of users with certificates in
   protected means such as Token, through which it is possible to store certificates in safe
   means. Although the e-SIGEF system manages critical information, it maintains only 4
   basic levels of security of the 15 recommended levels. It is therefore urgent to
   implement more mechanisms to minimize security threats in the system, including the
   implementation of digital certificates of a certification entity authorized in the country,
   besides encrypting mechanisms and electronic security keys. In a parallel manner, when
   implementing the system it was necessary to decentralize the registration of suppliers in
   the implementing units . The recommendation is for the Subsecretariat of the Treasury
   to recover the sole responsibility for managing this register so as to avoid modifications
   of the registered information and ensure security.
I. It is essential to boost the level of automation of the payment system and avoid
   performing manual operations, such as the manual validation of the suppliers' bank
   account. In this sense, the recommendation is to review the mechanisms of
   interconnection between the Central Bank and private banks so as to ensure absolute
   security in the payment process and avoid mistakes. The recommendation is for the
   Central Bank to sign agreements with every private bank so as to validate the bank
   accounts of the beneficiaries, prior to preparing the Single Registration Certificates
   (CUR) of expenses to be paid; to implement an entirely automatic procedure with no
   human intervention for the electronic payments with deposits on bank accounts of the
   beneficiaries of the e-SIAFI; and to define a process for reception and processing of the
   self-management resources for direct accreditation into the Single Current Account.
   Finally, at the moment all data of the system are concentrated in one place, which
   renders the system vulnerable to natural disasters. The Ministry of Finance plans to
   build an alternative data center to ensure continuity of the system in case of possible
   natural catastrophes. The recommendation is to give immediate priority to the financing
   and construction of this alternative system.




                                            41
F. Reasons for the Evaluation and Non-Evaluation of the Project Baseline
Indicators18


Group                            Description                                    Comments
          26 baseline indicators, within the 8 proposed
          categories, were evaluated in the baseline measurement
          in January-February 2009. They also include two             The results of these indicators
          indicators that were added to the measurement               were explained in the ICR
          (modifications to the financial program or PPC,             text, according to their
     A
          Transfers to sectional organizations).                      relevance in relation to the
          There was information to compare the evolution of           two principal project
          these indicators in 2003-08 and they were considered        objectives.
          relevant in view of the legal and administrative
          changes affecting the project.
          9 indicators were not measured as they were
          considered redundant, because in January-February
          2009 one of the following characteristics was
          complied: or those indicators would have shown a
          100% compliance (Programming and planning system,
                                                                      In general, these indicators
          Monthly modifications, Discrepancies in the
     B                                                                show a compliance of 99.9%
          deconcentrated execution, Adjustments to classifiers,
                                                                      or 100%
          Timely financial information, Governing entity,
          Electronic tenders); or the information is already
          collected in other indicators (Timely programming); or
          there were no variations in the measurement in 2003-
          08 (Budget closing guidelines).
          5 indicators were not measured because the
          corresponding modules and components have not yet
                                                                      In general, these indicators
          been designed, implemented and are not in operation
     C                                                                are on 0 for the period prior to
          (Operation of agreements, Finance Committee,
                                                                      the e-SIGEF.
          Sectoral management reports CG, Budget evaluation,
          Programming of commitments).
                                                                      Institutional changes: transfer
                                                                      of the responsibility for
          9 indicators were not measured as a result of changes       follow-up from the MEF to
          in the legal and institutional framework (Follow-up of      another entity (a new entity in
          public investments, Follow-up of flexibility of the         the case of real estate;
          expenses, Transfer without information, Asset               SENPLADES in the case of
     D
          inventories, Results-based programming, Technical           public investments).
          evaluation of the public investment, Sectoral               However, the suggestion is to
          programming by the governing entities, Gross base           continue monitoring these
          budget, Fiscal accountability).                             areas.
                                                                      Legal changes: The Law on
                                                                      Tax Equity largely eliminated


18
  Taken from Output 3.1 of the "Informe de Consultoría de Estudio y Medición de Indicadores de la Línea
Base del Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público" (Consultancy report of the study and
measurement of baseline indicators of the Public Financial Management Project), prepared by Margarita
Andrade.

                                                  42
Group                         Description                                     Comments
                                                                    the pre-allocations.
                                                                    Elimination in various laws of
                                                                    pre-existing regulations on
                                                                    fiscal prudence or discipline.
                                                                    Nonetheless, the suggestion is
                                                                    to maintain the follow-up of
                                                                    these indicators that provide
                                                                    information on fiscal
                                                                    sustainability.
        23 indicators were not measured because of a lack of
        information. In this group, four cases must be
        mentioned:
        (i) Indicators for which there is no information prior to
        2008, which hampers a measurement of the evolution
        and changes introduced by the project (Floating debt
        strategy, Bank accounts outside the BCE, Delays in
        payment, Transfers within the CG, Projects and
        budgets, Objective of the floating debt, Advance
        payments for debt, Advance payment of public works).
                                                                    Some of these indicators,
        (ii) Indicators for which the information prior to 2008
                                                                    particularly the ones linked to
        is not comparable to the information generated by the
                                                                    budget execution reports are
        e-SIGEF (Budget classifiers, Timely budget
                                                                    important as they contribute
        settlement).
                                                                    to measure the degree of
        (iii) Indicators for which there is no formal definition
 E                                                                  transparency in public
        from the authorities (although in the baseline design
                                                                    management, as one of the
        they are indeed defined) of certain concepts such as the
                                                                    fundamental project
        "pro-poor spending" or "understandable budget"
                                                                    objectives. The suggestion is
        (Acceptance of users, Understandable budget, Pro-poor
                                                                    to develop reports and
        spending).
                                                                    measurement mechanisms.
        (iv) Indicators related to audit ability and budget
        execution reports, which are not measured as the
        requested report does not exist or does not exist as per
        the periodicity expected in the design of the indicator
        (Correct liquidity forecast, Measurement of the priority
        of payments, Contingent liabilities, Dissemination of
        payments of the Treasury, Report on CG budget
        execution, Budget execution NFPS, Justified monthly
        modification, Public debt numbers, Public investment
        monitoring, Sectoral Consolidation in the NFPS).




                                               43
G. Achievements Related to the First Project Development Objective -
Improvements in Treasury Management


        Situation prior to the e-SIGEF                       Current Situation with the e-SIGEF

The Treasury System had structural, conceptual and      The Ministry of Finance maintains and administers,,
functional weaknesses.. The Sub-secretariat of the      a single treasury account, with all budget and off-
Treasury did not operate as the governing entity of     budget income and expenditure in the Central Bank.
the Nation or the Public Sector Financial Manager,      It is a tool to consolidate all the financial
but as a cashier that made payments and that was        information and control execution of the expenses
responsible for fund transfers to the implementing      and income of all Implementing units of the Central
units that made their payments effective by             Government.
drafting checks.
                                                        The Implementing units (IUs) of the General
There was a single current account in the central       Budget of the State (PGE) have virtual accounts in
bank of Ecuador, which in fact included a large         the Single Treasury Account. For making payments,
amount of bank accounts ("bridges" or "T                the implementing units instruct the Central Bank to
accounts") for each implementing unit. The              make the applicable debits through the interbank
accounts were used to transfer funds to the             payment system, but these are executed only once
implementing units through the private financial        the prior authorization from the Sub-secretariat of
system. The transfers were made through two             the Treasury is obtained, and once the system has
transactions: one from the "Single Current              validated that the single taxpayer register of the
Account" to the "T Accounts" and another one            supplier of the good or service corresponds to the
from "T Accounts" to the accounts of each               one registered in the internal revenue service. Thus,
implementing unit in the banking system, from           use of the e-SIGEF obliges suppliers to have a RUC
where payments to suppliers were made. The Sub-         for selling goods or services to any Implementing
secretariat of the Treasury did not have information    Unit of the Central Government.
on balances or bank movements of the
implementing units in the private banking sector,       The whole payment process is carried out in
which gave rise to problems of efficiency and           accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of
transparency. The State supplier could not know the     Finance. The previous system in which the transfers
time it would take to receive payments or the           and payments were controlled by the Implementing
criteria used to take decisions on priorities. The      units through their own accounts, with no
Sub-secretariat of the Treasury could not supervise     supervision from the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury,
those payments.                                         was eliminated.

The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury did not have a      The transactions can be made and followed in real-
"Single Treasury Account" (CUT) as a tool for           time. The accounting entries of the transactions
consolidating all the financial information and         made by the budget system are generated
controlling execution of the income and                 automatically.
expenditure. The Treasury could not technically
supervise the budget execution of the different
Implementing units operating in the public sector.

The transactions could be registered in the system
until 45 days after execution, which means that it
was very difficult to have information on the
availability of fiscal cash resources and control
liquidity. The first registration of the transaction
was through an accounting entry, which was later
reflected in the budget system.




                                                       44
        Situation prior to the e-SIGEF                       Current Situation with the e-SIGEF

                                                        Through implementation of the e-SIGEF and the e-
The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury made monthly        SIPREM, it has been possible to purge the database
deposits on the "T Accounts" of the Implementing        of public servants, obliging the Implementing units
units for the amounts related to salaries, according    to regularize their payrolls, by excluding vacancies.
to the budget. This amount was calculated on the        An exercise was performed for comparing the
basis of the positions assigned to the entities,        transferred amounts, which included salaries for
including vacancies. The implementing u units           vacancies, and the amounts that are transferred at the
gave instructions to the Central Bank for depositing    moment and that do not include salaries for
salary payments on the individual accounts in           vacancies.
commercial banks of the employees included in the
payroll of every Implementing Unit. Although the        As of June 2008, the number of filled positions and
cash balance (equivalent to the amount of               vacancies was 362,049, with a cost of US$182.7
vacancies) had to be returned at the end of the         million. The vacancies (11,593), for which the new
period to the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury, this     system no longer makes disbursements, imply
requirement was not met strictly and many               savings for an amount of $ 4.4 million.
Implementing units used the balances for covering
other obligations.

Although the payroll payment mechanism was
more agile and efficient than the payment of goods
and other services (as no checks were used), the
Ministry of Finance lost the resources transferred
for salaries of vacancies.
The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury only knew the       The payment system established in the single
overall amounts transferred to each Implementing        treasury account is transactional, i.e. it has
Unit, with no information on each payment made          mechanisms to "validate" the payment prior to
by the implementing u units with resources from         execution and to control compliance with the
the State Budget, as the financial management           applicable regulations. The implementing units
system gave absolute autonomy to those units .          have to use this system and all payment orders
Thus, the payment could be registered in the system     require authorization from the Treasurer. The system
after the payment had been made, without the            authorizes the payments if all legal requirements
system having an opportunity to check compliance        have been met and if the Implementing Unit has a
of the payment requirements.                            validated share of spending, according to available
                                                        fiscal cash resources.




                                                       45
        Situation prior to the e-SIGEF                        Current Situation with the e-SIGEF

The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury did not know         Many of these accounts have been eliminated. On
the number of bank accounts which the public             average, estimates are that every IU had 4 accounts
entities had in the private banks, and they had no       for making different payments that are now made
information on the costs inherent in the                 directly through electronic transfers to the suppliers
maintenance and management of these accounts.            from the Single Treasury Account.
Some studies have estimated that the Implementing
units may have had 12,000 accounts in the private        Based on an average annual cost for maintenance of
banks, which generated an additional high cost for       the account for a juridical person in the commercial
the State.                                               banking sector (in the range of US$ 84-100,
                                                         according to different parameters), the elimination
                                                         of most of the 12,000 bank accounts with the new
                                                         system generates annual savings worth US$1-1.2
                                                         million.

                                                         The previous system also gave rise to costs of the
                                                         services provided by the Central Bank (transfers of
                                                         resources from the Ministry of Finance to the "T
                                                         Accounts" of the Implementing units ; transfers of
                                                         payments from the "T Accounts" of the
                                                         Implementing units to the accounts of the suppliers
                                                         of goods and services), which have now been
                                                         eliminated.
Functions that are conceptually typical of the Sub-      From a conceptual point of view, the new system
secretariat of the Treasury, such as the periodic        does not permit delays in payments, if the entities
cash lan, were exercised by the budget area, which       contract commitments or sign agreements outside
gave rise to discrepancies between the budget and        the regulations.
actual payment (delays in payments).                     This way, by reducing the floating debt to a
                                                         minimum, it was possible to generate yearly savings
                                                         of at least US$ 10 million, assuming 1% of the total
                                                         amount of the accumulated floating debt (US$ 1,389
                                                         million in 2007).
The public debt was not programmed through the           The programming of the public debt should be
Periodic Cash Plan, and the debt payments were           included in the new system. However, the total
made by different offices of the Ministry of Finance     integration between the
through written instructions.                            SIGEF and the SIGADE has not been made
                                                         effectively.
The Sub-secretariat of the Treasury knew the             The system demands that the self-management
balance of self-management of some iImplementing         resources of the iImplementing u units be
u units , but not all of them, in view of the form of    transferred to the single treasury account. The
operation of the bank accounts. In many cases, the       private banks are obliged to transfer the self-
self-management amounts were significant and             management funds to the Single Treasury Account
could have contributed to a better cash                  within 24 hours, enhancing an efficient and
management.                                              transparent management of these resources and
                                                         reinforcing the functions of the Sub-secretariat of
                                                         the Treasury.




                                                        46
  H. Measurement of Baseline Indicators Associated with the First Project Development
  Objective

Indicator         Type          Definition          2003              2006                 2008
Costs of         Auditability The accumulated Approximate             Approximate         Approximate
operation of the and           costs of the Project accumulated       accumulated cost accumulated cost
system           accountabilit since 2003 were      cost 2003:        2006:               2008: US$13,000,000
                 y             used.                US$800,000        US$6,000,000        Approximate
                               The operational      Approximate       Approximate         operational cost:
                               costs were also      operational       operational cost:   US$350,000
                               presented            cost: US$0        US$250,000
Institutional    Coverage      Percentage of        4.3% of the       6.1% of the Central 100% of the Central
Coverage of the                Implementing         Central           Government          Government
CG                             units of the CG      Government.
                               budget covered by
                               the SIGEF.
Budget Coverage Coverage       Percentage of the 78.7% of the         99.26% of the     100% of the Central
of the CG                      income and           Central           Central           Government budget
                               expenditure budget Government          Government budget
                               of the CG covered budget
                               through the SIGEF.
Unprocessable Coverage         Sending of           CG: 3%            CG: 15%              Data at 2007:
reported                       information on       D&A: 28%          D&A: 7%              CG: 15%
information                    budget execution PE: 18%               PE: 7%               D&A: 14%
                               that is not possible NFPS: 6%          NFPS: 12%            PE: 7%
                               to process by the                                           NFPS: 12%
                               Central
                               Government (CG),
                               Decentralized and
                               Autonomous
                               Entities (D&A),
                               Public Enterprises
                               (PE) and NFPS
Consolidation of Coverage      Proportion of        The SIGEF         The SIGEF            The e-SIGEF
information of                 entities of the CG generated           generated            automatically
the CG and the                 and the NFPS for aggregated            aggregated           generates
NFPS                           which the budget information,          information, which   consolidated
                               information is       which was         was then             information. Data as at
                               consolidated.        then              consolidated.        2007:
                                                    consolidated.     CG: 79%              CG: 84%
                                                    CG: 62%           D&A: 81%             D&A: 69%
                                                    D&A: 69%          PE: 68%              PE: 56%
                                                    PE: 56%           SPNP: 79%            NFPS: 62%
                                                    SPNP: 62%
Payroll          Coverage      Central              A Payroll         The Payroll Module The Payroll
payments                       Government           Module was        functioned only in Application covers
through the                    Entities that        developed for     the Ministry of     99.9% of the CG
system                         process their whole testing in pilot   Finance as a pilot. entities and crosses
                               payroll through the entities.                              information between
                               integrated financial                                       the database of the
                               management                                                 Distributive of the
                               system.                                                    MEF and the Payroll
                                                                                          forwarded by the
                                                                                          Implementing units .


                                                      47
Indicator        Type          Definition         2003              2006                2008
                                                                                        Covers personnel with
                                                                                        contracts.

Institutional    Coverage      Institutions of the 0% of            1% in 2005          151 IUs of the NFPS,
Coverage of the                NFPS outside the coverage                                equivalent to 101
NFPS outside the               CG covered by the                                        Entities of the NFPS
CG                             new system.                                              (outside the CF)
                                                                                        operate with the e-
                                                                                        SIGEF.
Consistent       Public debt Consistency          Technical         Technical debt      Technical debt service
forecasts and                between debt         debt service      service forecasts   forecasts consistent
registration of              forecasts based on forecasts           consistent with the with the budget
the debt service             technical            consistent        budget information information system.
                             parameters and       with the          system.
                             cash forecasts       budget            Discrepancy as at
                             included in the      information       Sep. 2006.
                             budget information system.
                             system.
Floating debt    Public debt Measurement of       According toAccording to the     Average of 1.56 days
                             the time that passes the         Implementing units since the MEF issues
                             until payment.       Implementingthe average time for the order for transfer
                             More time implies units the      payments to          from the CUT to the
                             an accumulation of average time  suppliers is 45-120 supplier's account,
                             floating debt.       for paymentsdays. Floating debt through the interbank
                                                              balance as at 2007: payment system. Not
                                                  to suppliers is
                                                  45-120 days.US$1,389 million possible, conceptually,
                                                                                   new floating debt is
                                                                                   generated.
Debt service     Public debt Discrepancy        Minimum gap Gap between            Gap between
forecasts                    between            between       Programmed and Programmed and Paid
                             cash forecasts and Programmed Paid Foreign Debt Foreign Debt due to
                             budget             and Paid      due to repurchase of non-payment of
                             programming        Foreign Debt General Bonds         General Bonds 2012.
                             in the system as   due to the    2012.
                             regards the debt   exchange
                             service.           differential
                                                and
                                                international
                                                interests.
Budget execution Budget      Budget execution Budget                               Budget execution
of the CG        Execution 2007 through the execution in                           2008 in the new e-
                             new system for all the previous                       SIGEF system in the
                             CG entities.       client-server                      web platform. The IUs
                                                system, with                       must use the system to
                                                decentralized                      operate. If the IUs do
                                                databases.                         not register the
                                                Execution                          income, they cannot
                                                outside the                        make payments to
                                                system is                          suppliers.
                                                permitted.
Availability of  Budget      Number of          The budget                         The transactions are
the System       Execution working days per execution                              processed on a daily
                             year with a        could not be                       basis. The system was
                             complete budget closed on a                           operating 99% of the

                                                    48
Indicator      Type        Definition           2003              2006                  2008
                           execution closed daily basis.                                days in 2008.
                           the same day.    The system                                  Use limitations when
                                            did not permit                              closing the budget.
                                            daily closing,
                                            but only on a
                                            quarterly
                                            basis.
Modification   Budget      Budget reforms   There is no                                 With the e- SIGEF, it
outside the    Execution   made manually by register of the                             is possible to identify
system                     the entities.    reforms made                                and quantify the
                                            outside the                                 reforms made outside
                                            system.                                     the system, i.e. the
                                                                                        reforms registered in
                                                                                        Treasury that could
                                                                                        not be simultaneously
                                                                                        registered in Budget or
                                                                                        Accounting.
                                                                                        The IUs cannot make
                                                                                        reforms without the
                                                                                        prior authorization
                                                                                        from Treasury.
Modifications of Budget    Timely and           Reforms or                              The e-SIGEF is
the PPC or the Execution   thorough follow-up modifications                             transactional, and so it
Financial                  of the reforms in prepared in                                provides electronic
Program                    the Periodic Cash the Overall                                information in real
                           Program or the       SIGEF at the                            time on the reforms of
                           Financial Program. level of a                                the financial program
                                                Source Group                            through new CURs.
                                                and validated
                                                with feedback
                                                from the
                                                Integrating
                                                and
                                                Institutional
                                                SIGEF for the
                                                transactions
                                                performed by
                                                each entity (in
                                                the
                                                Institutional
                                                SIGEF).
Self-          Budget      The ones generated The Sub-            The Sub-secretariat   The IUs have 48 hours
management     Execution   by the public        secretariat of    of the Treasury did   to register self-
Resources                  institutions for the the Treasury      not know the exact    management resources
                           provision of certain did not know      balances resulting    once the private bank
                           goods or services. the exact           from self-            provides the deposit
                                                balances          management of         voucher. The e-SIGEF
                                                resulting from    Implementing          can detect an increase
                                                self-             units .               in the income and has
                                                management                              to consult the
                                                of                                      accounting records so
                                                Implementing                            as to verify whether
                                                units .                                 these are from self-
                                                                                        management. The

                                                 49
Indicator       Type         Definition         2003           2006                2008
                                                                                   system does not permit
                                                                                   spending of non-
                                                                                   reported self-
                                                                                   management
                                                                                   resources.




Modifications by Budget      The sectoral        The Net       The Net Reforms The Net Reforms by
sector           Execution   Budget reforms      Reforms by by Sector              Sector
                             show the re-        Sector        In the CG for 2004 In the CG for 2008
                             allocation of       In the CG for favor the Treasury favor the Central
                             resources among 2004 favor the and                    Government Sector
                             sectors during a    Treasury and Communications       (old Treasury) and the
                             certain period of Communicati Sector to the           Communications
                             time. The impact ons Sector to detriment of "Social sector; however, there
                             of these reforms    the detriment Welfare".           is an increase of
                             will be according of "Social                          resources for
                             to the beneficiary Welfare".                          Education and
                             sectors versus the                                    Agriculture/Livestock.
                             sectors from which
                             resources are taken
                             away.
Execution of    Budget       Execution of he     The                               The Percentage of
expenses        Execution Expenses reflects Percentage of                          Accrued Expenses in
                             the capacity to     Accrued                           relation to Coded
                             program, allocate Expenses in                         Expenses was 82% for
                             and use the public relation to                        2008.
                             resources.          Coded
                             Measured as a       Expenses was
                             percentage of       between 88%
                             accrued expenses and 98%
                             over coded          between 2003
                             expenses.           and 2007.
Budget          Planning and Overall impact of CV: 3.5 (at     CV: 2.9 (at 2005) CV: 2.5
Modifications   Programmin the budget            2004)
                g            modifications.
                             Measured through
                             the coefficient of
                             variation (CV) of
                             the budget reforms.
Payments        Treasury and Orders to mobilize There is no    There is no record In January-November
outside the     cash         funds from the      record of     of payments made 2008 payments were
system          management CCU outside the payments            outside the system. made for an amount of
                             system.             made outside                      9.98 million through
                                                 the system.                       the e-SIGEF, of which
                                                                                   a percentage had to be
                                                                                   made outside the
                                                                                   system due to budget
                                                                                   charges that had to be
                                                                                   made in the course of
                                                                                   the year. By the end of
                                                                                   2008, all transactions


                                                  50
Indicator        Type         Definition          2003            2006                 2008
                                                                                       had been regularized.




Payment errors Treasury and The requested         There is no     There is no register By November 2008,
               cash         Single Record         register of     of Payment Errors the unpaid CUR
               management Vouchers (CUR)          Payment         to the Implementing amount to 1,567
                            that are different    Errors to the   units of the General transactions, and the
                            from the ones         Implementing    Budget of the State. paid CUR to
                            planned by the        units of the                         1,505,043
                            system or wrong       General                              transactions.
                            ones (therefore,      Budget of the
                            they are not paid).   State.
Status of      Treasury and Electronic            Payments not    Payments not    By December 2008,
payments       cash         application for the   centralized.    centralized.    through a web-based
               management state suppliers to                                      application the
                            have access to                                        suppliers could consult
                            information on                                        the status of their
                            their payment                                         payments in relation to
                            procedures in real                                    the paid CURs. 226
                            time.                                                 suppliers have access
                                                                                  to this application and
                                                                                  the goal is to gradually
                                                                                  extend coverage. At
                                                                                  the moment,
                                                                                  membership is
                                                                                  voluntary.
CETES in the     Treasury and Balances of         CETES        CETES              CETES
CG               cash         CETES               Disbursement Disbursements:     Disbursements:
                 management                       s:           US$2,222.2 million US$7 million
                                                  US$585.4     CETES balances     CETES balances due
                                                  million      due 31/12/2004     31/12/2004
                                                  CETES        US$292.6 million US$0 million
                                                  balances due CETES              CETES Repayments:
                                                  31/12/2004   Repayments:        US$3.5 million
                                                  US$414.6     US$2,610.2 million CETES Payment
                                                  million      CETES Payment      interests:
                                                  CETES        interests:         US$0.1 million
                                                  Repayments: US$52.6 million
                                                  US$406.2
                                                  million
                                                  CETES
                                                  Payment
                                                  interests:
                                                  US$16.1
                                                  million




                                                   51
I. Achievements Related to the Second Project Development Objective ­ Improvements in Budget Execution19


                        Situation prior to the e-SIGEF                                                 Current Situation with the e-SIGEF
The follow-up of budget execution was very complicated and not very                   The e-SIGEF allows for the Ministry of Finance, the sectoral
systematic. The Central Bank used the fiscal base to detect cash withdrawals          ministries and the iImplementing u units to track budget execution by
using the two-digit classification of the account of the Implementing Unit in         real-time observation (electronic) of the status of the payments. It is
the Central Bank. However, there was no mechanism to verify whether the               also possible to individually follow up each payment operation, as
resources had been used as budgeted. The old system was used by sub-                  each operation is identified with a unique code (CUR) and has the
secretariat to generate partial information on the expenses and to validate           necessary supportive documents.
payments. In some cases in which the system had no coverage, the follow-up
of the institutional budget execution was through the Savings-Investment
Account (CAIC).
Studies have shown that there were around 2,000 budget reforms per year.              The e-SIGEF enforces respect for the principle of legality of the
The instructions and foundations of the reforms were based on documents               budget. The iImplementing u units cannot make major budget
issued by the Sub-secretariat of the Budget or the subrogating authority. As          modifications without the authorization of the Sub-secretariat of the
the system did not allow for the Ministry of Finance to have real-time data on        Budget of the Ministry of Finance.
the performed transactions, the iImplementing u units made budget reforms
that legally required authorization from the MEF. There were many variations
between the approved and executed budgets, for significant amounts, and
apparently there were no strict analyses of the justifications.
In view of the impossibility of adequately following up the budget execution          The e-SIGEF has encouraged more transparency in the payment of
and of verifying use of the resources, there were systematic delays in the            suppliers of goods and services by controlling that the requirements
monthly transfers from the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury to the                     for the payment are met. The payment requests or orders issued by the
Implementing u units . The Sub-secretariat often performed the ad hoc                 Implementing u units through the system are authorized by the Sub-
function of verifying use of the resources prior to making the transfers.             secretariat of the Treasury, and there is a complete record of the
                                                                                      history of every operation. The e-SIGEF has decreased discretion of


19
  This annex is based on the implementation results described in the Preliminary Report of Project Closure prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and the
technical reports of Bruno Barletti, Jorge Rodríguez and Carmen Zuleta; and Output 3.1 of the "Informe de Consultoría de Estudio y Medición de Indicadores de
la Línea Base del Proyecto de Administración Financiera del Sector Público" (Consultancy report of the study and measurement of baseline indicators of the
Public Financial Management Project), prepared by Margarita Andrade.


                                                                             53
                        Situation prior to the e-SIGEF                                                 Current Situation with the e-SIGEF
                                                                                      the employees of the Implementing units to decide on payments for
                                                                                      suppliers. The payments are made within a maximum of 22 days after
                                                                                      reception of the invoice.
The budget reports were concentrated in the Central Government, while the             Possible to have real-time information (within 24 hours) on the
local governments and some public companies sent their audited financial              integrated budget situation of the Central Government and on budget
statements to the sub-secretariat of Government Accounting. Therefore, the            execution and to take economic policy decisions based on that
budget reports did not contain all fiscal activities of the government. The PGE       information.
contains information of the central government, Non-Commercial
Autonomous Institutions (IANC) and the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute           Only the expenditure items are published on the web page of the MEF.
(IESS). However, the off-budget activities are significant and the PGE thus
underestimates the size of the government significantly.                              The e-SIGEF does not allow for use of the self-generated resources of
                                                                                      the Implementing units if they have not been registered in the system
The fiscal information was incomplete and the consolidation of this                   and transferred to the Single Treasury Account (CUT).
information suffered a delay of 6 months. Some estimates show that 40% of
the public entities sent their information with important delays and only a
small percentage did so over the Internet.

Ecuador does not have the practice of including information on previous years
in the budget documentation so as to compare budget estimates with recent
performance, or the inclusion of budget forecasts for future years.

The budget documentation did not include information on contingent
liabilities of the central government, tax expenses and quasi fiscal activities. It
is not possible to have a complete image of the government's fiscal activity.




                                                                            54
J. Measurement of Baseline Indicators associated with the Second Project Development Objective


     Indicator       Type                Definition                    2003                     2006                                  2008
Payroll payments Coverage      Entities of the Central      A Payroll Module was The Payroll Module operated        The Payroll application covers 99.9%
through the                    Government that process      formulated for testing only in the Ministry of Finance  of the CG entities and crosses
system                         their entire payroll through in pilot entities.     as a pilot.                      information between the database of
                               the integrated financial                                                             the Distributive of the MEF and the
                               management system.                                                                   Payroll forwarded by the
                                                                                                                    implementing units . Covers
                                                                                                                    personnel with contracts.
Budget Execution Budget        Budget execution 2007      Budget execution in the previous client-server system, Budget execution 2008 in the new e-
of the CG        Execution     through the new system for with decentralized databases. Execution outside the       SIGEF system in the web platform.
                               all CG entities.           system is permitted.                                      The IUs must use the system to
                                                                                                                    operate. If the IUs do not register the
                                                                                                                    income, they cannot make payments
                                                                                                                    to suppliers.
Modifications      Budget      Budget reforms made        There is no record of the reforms made outside the        With the e- SIGEF, it is possible to
outside the system Execution   manually by the entities.  system.                                                   identify and quantify the reforms
                                                                                                                    made outside the system, i.e. the
                                                                                                                    reforms registered in Treasury that
                                                                                                                    could not be simultaneously registered
                                                                                                                    in Budget or Accounting.
                                                                                                                    The IUs cannot make reforms without
                                                                                                                    the prior authorization from Treasury.
Four-monthly       Budget      Timely and thorough        Severe limitations as the System registered only the      Every expense phase (commitment,
comparison         Execution   follow-up                  accounting part of the accrual, which is not a concept of accrual, payment) is differentiated
                               of budget programming,     reception of goods or services, with an invoice.          with documents, sources, dates and
                               commitments and accruals.                                                            validations.
Modifications to   Budget      Timely and thorough        Reforms or modifications prepared in the Overall          The e-SIGEF is transactional, and so it
the PPC or the     Execution   follow-up                  SIGEF at the level of a Source Group and validated with provides electronic information in real
Financial                      of the reforms of the      feedback from the Integrating and Institutional SIGEF time on the reforms of the financial
Program                        Periodic Cash Program or for the transactions performed by each entity (in the       program through new CURs.
                               the Financial Program.     Institutional SIGEF).




                                                                        55
     Indicator        Type                 Definition                   2003                         2006                                 2008
Payments outside Treasury and     Orders to mobilize funds    There is no record of    There is no record of the       In January-November 2008 payments
the system       cash             from the CCU outside the    the payments made        payments made outside the       were made for an amount of 9.98
                 management       system.                     outside the system.      system.                         million through the e-SIGEF, of which
                                                                                                                       a percentage had to be made outside
                                                                                                                       the system due to budget charges that
                                                                                                                       had to be made in the course of the
                                                                                                                       year. By the end of 2008, all
                                                                                                                       transactions had been regularized.
Payment errors     Treasury and   Registration Certificates    There is no register of There is no register of Payment By November 2008, the unpaid CUR
                   cash           (CUR) requested, which are Payment Errors to the Errors to the Implementing          amount to 1,567 transactions, and the
                   management     different from the ones      implementing units of units of the General Budget of paid CUR to 1,505,043 transactions.
                                  planned by the system or     the General Budget of the State.
                                  which are wrong (and which the State.
                                  are not paid).
Self-management Budget            Generated by public          The Sub-secretariat of The Sub-secretariat of the       The IUs have 48 hours to register self-
resources       Execution         institutions from the        the Treasury did not    Treasury did not know the       management resources once the
                                  provision of certain goods know the exact            exact balances resulting from private bank provides the deposit
                                  or services.                 balances resulting from self-management of              voucher. The e-SIGEF
                                                               self-management of      Implementing units .            can detect an increase in the income
                                                               Implementing units .                                    and has to consult the accounting
                                                                                                                       records so as to verify whether these
                                                                                                                       are from self-management. The
                                                                                                                       system does not permit spending of
                                                                                                                       non-reported self-management
                                                                                                                       resources.
Modifications by   Budget         The sectoral budget reforms The Net Reforms by       The Net Reforms by Sector       The Net Reforms by Sector
sector             Execution      show the re-allocation of    Sector                  in the CG for 2004 favor the    In the CG for 2008 favor the Central
                                  resources between sectors in the CG for 2004         Treasury and Communications Government Sector (old Treasury) and
                                  during a certain period of favor the Treasury and Sector to the detriment of         the Communications sector; however,
                                  time.                        Communications Sector "Social Welfare".                 there is an increase of resources for
                                  Impacts of those reforms     to the detriment of                                     Education and Agriculture/Livestock.
                                  are observed by examining "Social Welfare".                                          This largely reflected the high
                                  the benefited sectors versus                                                         availability of fiscal liquidity.
                                  the sectors that lost
                                  resources.




                                                                           56
    Indicator        Type                Definition                   2003                        2006                                2008


Audit           Audit ability    The Audit Indicators          Since 2004, the CGE The special audits conducted by Besides the special audits of the CGE,
                and              proposed in 2006 includes: issues Opinions on the the internal audit of the MF            the suggestion is to include an
                accountability   1. Audits made onbudget       Financial Statements of show the relevance of analyzed Indicator that obliges to make an
                                 execution 2003;               the MEF and special       sensitive topics in relation to   annual Audit of operation of the
                                 2. Audit times to be          audits according to a     the state's financial             Integrated Financial Management
                                 detailed;                     program agreed upon management. The results of the System e-SIGEF.
                                 3. Publication of audits; and with the MF, the results special audits are published
                                 4. Results-based Audit.       of which are published entirely on the MF portal. The
                                 None of these criteria is     on the MEF portal.        audit time is irrelevant in these
                                 relevant at the moment        The CGE does not          cases.
                                 because of the experience of conduct management
                                 2003, 2006, and 2008.         audits. The audit time is
                                                               irrelevant as an analysis
                                                               criterion. There have
                                                               been quality analyses of
                                                               the expenses of the MF,
                                                               but these are not
                                                               results-based audits.




                                                                          57
K: Efficiency in Public Financial Management

1.      E-SIGEF operates with a Single Treasury Account. It was created by MEF as part
of the Project's reforms for administering all budgetary and extra-budgetary revenues and
expenditures. It is also a tool to consolidate all financial information and control the
execution of expenditures and revenues. The benefit of this structural, conceptual and
functional change in the budgetary processes includes:

       Virtual accounts with expenditure quotas. The executing units of the general state
       budget have virtual accounts in the unique treasury account. For making payments,
       the executing units instruct the Central Bank to proceed with the respective debits
       through the interbank payment system, but these are executed only subject to
       prior authorization of the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury, and once the system has
       verified that the taxpayer registration number of the supplier of the goods or
       services is the one registered with the internal revenue service. The payment
       process takes place in compliance with the rules set forth by the Ministry of
       Finance. The previous system in which transfers and payments were controlled by
       the executing u units through their own accounts and without any type of
       supervision from the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury was eliminated.
       Virtual transactions validated by the MEF. The payment system established in the
       unique treasury account is transactional, i.e. it is equipped with mechanisms to
       "validate" payments prior to execution and, therefore, to control compliance of
       payments with the rules. The executing u units are obligated to use this system
       and all their payment orders are required prior to Treasury authorization and are
       processed through the Treasury. The system authorizes the payments if all legal
       requirements are met and if the executing unit has a validated expenditure quota
       based on the availability of fiscal resources. Prior to the system, it was possible to
       record payments after the payment was made, without the system having an
       opportunity to check compliance with all payment requirements.
       Real time transaction processing. Transactions can be processed and tracked in
       real time. Prior to the system, transactions could be recorded in the system up to
       45 days after being executed. It was therefore difficult to have information on
       available fiscal resources and control liquidity.
       Supplier database. The current system has a mechanism to control suppliers of
       goods and services to the state. The executing u units must cross information on
       the suppliers with the database of the internal revenue service so as to verify their
       existence based on the Taxpayer Registration Number (RUC). This strengthens
       the internal revenue service, as use of the e-SIGEF obliges suppliers to have their
       RUC to sell their goods or services to any Executing Unit of the Central
       Government.
       Agencies' resources. Any resource generated by the executing u units has to be
       transferred to the unique treasury account.
       Accounting entries. Accounting entries of transactions performed by the
       budgetary system are generated automatically. This is a fundamental change

                                            58
        compared to the previous system that first recorded the transaction through an
        accounting entry, which was then recorded in the budgetary system.

2.      Transparency and control in Budget Management

        The e-SIGEF enforces the principle of budget legality, i.e. the executing u units
        cannot make any major budget modifications without the prior express
        authorization of the Sub-secretariat of the Budget of the MEF. In the previous
        system, the MEF had no real-time information on performed transactions, and the
        executing u units made budget reforms that legally required MEF authorization.20
        Tracking of Budget execution. As a result of the e-SIGEF's, the MEF, sector
        ministries and the Executing units can track budget execution as they have real-
        time and electronic information on the status of payments. In parallel, it is
        possible to have information on the integrated situation of the sector budget and
        take decisions on sector policies based on that information. In addition, every
        payment operation can be followed up individually, as each operation is identified
        with a unique code (CUR) and has supporting documents.
        Control of resources generated by the agencies. The e-SIGEF ensures
        transparency in management of the resources generated by the executing u units
        themselves, as these resources cannot be used unless they have first been recorded
        in the system and transferred to the Unique Treasury Account (CUT). Moreover,
        the correspondent banks are obliged to transfer the self-managed funds to the
        Unique Treasury Account within 24 hours. This has given rise to the transparent
        and efficient management of these resources, at the same time strengthening the
        functions of the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury.
        Transparent payment of goods and services from suppliers. The e-SIGEF system
        has enhanced transparency in the payment of suppliers of goods and services, as it
        controls compliance with the payment requirements. 21 At the same time, the
        payment requests or orders issued by the executing u units through the system are
        now authorized by the Sub-secretariat of the Treasury--the system provides an
        electronic record of each operation history. Transparent payroll payment. E-
        SIGEF established payroll controls of public servants' salaries by cross-
        referencing data at different levels and implementing substantial improvements in
        transactions regarding personnel expenses (both payroll and distributive),
        including:
             The information and coverage of salary expenses improved through updates of
             the "distributive" data, i.e. the database of the MEF that collects information



20
   The Executing Units can make budgetary modifications such as the reallocation between lower-level
budgetary classifiers (disaggregated), without prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance.
21
   A supplier identified with a valid Taxpayer Registration Number and payment vouchers authorized by
the Internal Revenue Service, as well as the registration of supportive documents. Payroll data are crossed
and checked with the Distributive.

                                                    59
             on the public employees, including all vacancies, occupied or temporarily
             inactive positions in all Executing units , as well as the respective budget item.
             The basic principle of "one Position ­ one Employee" is followed, in order to
             eliminate the possibility of the same person irregularly filling more than one
             public position.
             For "accruing" personnel services and processing the monthly payments, each
             executing unit records its commitment in e-SIGEF, and is thus forced to
             comply with the amount assigned by the "distributive database" regarding
             occupied staff positions. 22 Subsequently, the information system of public
             remunerations e-SIPREN crosses checks data on the public servants who
             appear in the payroll of the executing units with the distributive database. If
             the employee does not appear, it will not be possible to include him in the
             Payment Order. This requirement has been in effect since March 2008, when a
             sufficient coverage of the distributive database was achieved. As a
             consequence of the aforementioned process, the e-SIGEF and the e-SIPREN
             systems were integrated with the Central Bank-- ordering payment exclusively
             into the accounts of those public servants who appear in the distributive
             database and therefore are validated. Accordingly, payroll-based payments are
             now lower than payments the Treasury used to make.




22
  For the "Accrued" phase, the pertinent amount is that of the Payroll, registered for each Executing Unit
through the e-SIPREM system with data on the amount allocated to each employee.

                                                   60
