Document of                  FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2793-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 30, 1980
This document has a restricted distribulion nd may be used by recipients ory in the perfonmance of
their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dlsclsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   =      US$ 1.44
1 US Dollar                    LE 0.69
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
EGPC    -    Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
GODE    -    Gulf Organization for the Development
of Egypt
LPG     -    Liquefied Petroleum Gas
NMcf/d  -    Million cubic feet per day
scf     -    Standard cubic feet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Credit Summary
Borrower:          Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:       Petrogas
Amount:            US$50 million IDA Credit
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  20 years, including 5 years grace, at 8.25 percent interest.
Project
Description:      The objective of the project is to reduce Egypt's reliance
on imports of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), gas oil, and
kerosene by replacing it with natural gas, a locally avail-
able source of energy. The gas would be used to supply
a gas distribution network in four districts of Cairo:
Helwan, Maadi, Nasr City and Heliopolis and to provide fuel
to two gas turbine plants.  Specifically, the project would
comprise: (i) construction of a high-pressure pipeline,
(ii) an odorizing unit and four pressure-reduction stations,
(iii) a distribution network of medium-density polyethylene
pipes and related connection services, (iv) external and
internal installation of pipes in households and related
services as well as conversion of existing LPG appliances to
natural gas, (v) supervisory control and cathodic protection
for the gas pipelines, and (iv) technical assistance, train-
ing and project related studies.
The project faces certain technical risks inherent in this
type of project and project implementation risks resulting
from the fact that Petrogas is a fairly recent public
utility. However, precautionary measures have been included
under the project to reduce these risks to a minimum accept-
able level. Actions by the Government to ameliorate economic
risks which may arise from the expected price differential
between natural gas and LPG and kerosene are being discussed
and certain actions are being taken to induce consumers to
utilize natural gas rather than competing products.
This document has a rstricted distributdon and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
-- -- --------US$ Million------ -----
Item                                   Foreign Cost    Local Cost   Total Cost
1.  High Pressure Transmission
Pipeline                              14.0            6.8            20.8
2.  Odorizing Unit                            0.3            0.1            0.4
3.  Pressure-regulating stations              1.4            0.7            2.1
4.  Distribution Network                     23.7           11.8           35.5
5.  Gas Meters                                8.2            4.1           12.3
6.  External Service Line including
Laterals, Risers, etc.                12.5            6.1            18.6
7.  Internal Services                       11.7             5.7           17.4
8.  Conversion of Appliances                  6.8            3.3           10.1
9.  Training                                  1.4            0.7            2.1
10.  Consultancy                               4.3            0.7            5.0
11.  Basic Project Cost                      84.3            40.0          124.3
12.  Physical Contingency                      8.4            4.0           12.4
13.  Price Contingency                        11.1            7.2           18.3
TOTAL                             103.8           51.2          155.0
Financing Plan:                             -----------US$ Million-----------
Foreign         Local         Total
Government/EGPC                         51.7            45.3           97.0
Petrogas net internal
cash generation                         -             5.9             5.9
IBRD (Loan 1732-EGT)                     2.1             -              2.1
IDA                                     50.0             -             50.0
TOTAL                             103.8           51.2          155.0
Estimated Disbursements:                           - …-----US$ Million-------
IDA FY         1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                                  21.0   11.1   11.7    6.2
Cumulative                              21.0   32.1   43.8   50.0
Economic Rate of Return: 43 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2766-EGT, dated April 1980
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$50
million on standard IDA terms to help finance part of the foreign exchange
cost of the Cairo Gas Distribution Project. The proceeds of the credit would
be relent to Petrogas for 20 years, including 5 years grace, with interest at
8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by Pres'ident Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
1/   Part I is identical to Part I of the recent President's Report for the
Textile II Project, distributed to the Executive Directors on April 10,
1980.



- 2 -
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with
COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established
in the Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourist sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.
9.        Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's



-3-
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial
banks were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at
end-1978, largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for
the Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears
in debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
12.       Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent



of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
.~~~~~~~~
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term
trend because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of
inputs. Growth in industry and mining continued at 7.8 percent, close to the
1975-78 average. There was, however, a marked slowdown in the growth of the
petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34 percent in 1978, reflecting
the lack of major discoveries in recent years and the approaching "peak" in
production from existing fields. Overall, the growth rate in the commodity
sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close to the 1975-78 average (7.6
percent). Growth in the distributive and service sectors, about 12 percent
and 9 percent respectively, continued to be significantly higher than in the
commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and



are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits (presently about 4 percentage points) will have
to be closed to channel more workers' remittances and tourism receipts into
official channels and prevent the re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange
market. Periodic adjustments in the exchange rate may also become necessary
if the unofficial "free market" rate were to start deviating substantially
from the "unified" official rate. In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated
around 8 percent and significant downward pressure on the exchange rate did
not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings



-6-
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy.  There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.



-7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion. Bilat-
eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt out-
standing while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed development credit would be the World Bank's forty-eight
lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since
1970 to $1,674.5 million. 2/ Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment, overstaffing,
weak management and a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits and shortages of
1/   Paras. 26-30 are identical to paras. 26-30 of the recent President's
Report for the Textile II Project, distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 10, 1980.
2/   Assumes that one other project will be presented to the Executive
Directors before the proposed Cairo Gas project: $30 million loan for
MIDB (DFC).



- 8 -
domestic resources. The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum
of sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes
delivery of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of
specific investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to devise and implement future policies and investment programs.
The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differen-
tiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities
can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
27.       Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex set of problems which stem largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and
Ln. 1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodi-
ties in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting
the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities with the
objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the 1980's. It
has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp
and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order
to assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which would be embodied in future projects. Two subsectors,
textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater detail with a view to
developing specific recommendations concerning the major issues facing public
enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment, wages, prices,
profit retention and the relationship between the public and private sectors.
To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-
scale industries which is laying the basis for joint Egyptian/Bank efforts in
this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government in undertaking a
major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the most
critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in initiating
studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution master plan.
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes



-9-
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and
the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas exploration, rural
and urban development, transportation, rural water supply, agriculture (includ-
ing drainage), agro-industry, development finance and industry.
29.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       Total IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $37 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976) a ready-
made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex primarily
for sugar beet (May 1978); a poultry project (July 1978); and a fish farming
project (December 1979). IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects.
PART III - OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Introduction
31.       Egypt's energy outlook has continuously improved over the last
decade. With the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, Egypt successfully
developed its largest hydroelectric resource. Increases in oil production
have made it first self-sufficient and, more recently, an exporter of oil. In
1978 petroleum exports accounted for 50 percent of its foreign trade receipts.
Gas finds have further strengthened the energy base and increased export
possibilities of oil. These positive developments notwithstanding, the medium
and long term outlook is not as clear. Much of Egypt's current economic
and industrial planning is predicated upon ample and continued availability
of low cost energy and a significant increase in oil exports. However, it is
not certain that this will necessarily come about. A fast growing domestic
demand for oil stimulated by prices well below the international level,
declining production from some of Egypt's existing major oil fields, the need
for increased efforts in exploration and in developing natural gas, are the
areas of concern.



- 10 -
Resource Endowment
32.       The main sources of primary commercial energy in Egypt are hydro
power and petroleum. Coal deposits have been discovered in the western
desert and Sinai peninsula, and are estimated at around 100 million tons. A
feasibility study for a coal-fired power plant in Sinai is presently under
preparation. As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels in the
form of crop residues and animal waste are in extensive use and are estimated
to represent about one quarter of the total commercial energy used.
33.        Hydro power for Egypt is an important source and in 1977 accounted
for 20 percent of primary commercial energy. By equipping the Aswan Dam with
turbine generators having a total capacity of 345 MW, the first step was
taken in 1960 to tap the hydro power potential of the river Nile. With the
completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1970, with an installed capacity of 2100
MW, 80 percent of the Nile's hydro power potential has been harnessed. 1/ The
remaining 60 meter drop between Aswan and Cairo represents a generating poten-
tial of 460 MW which, subject to the establishment of economic viability,
could be secured by electrifying three existing barrages and developing other
potential barrage sites not yet identified. The only other potential source
of hydro power is the Qattara project and mini-hydro schemes along water
canals connected to the Nile. The Qattara project which would utilize the
drop of 60 meters between the Mediterranean and the Qattara Depression in the
Western desert could produce about 640 MW during the first 12 years, and about
340 MW thereafter.
Oil and Gas
34.       Hydrocarbons are a major source of commercial energy in Egypt and on
account of limited hydro potential, are likely to be relied upon increasingly
for meeting Egypt's incremental demand for energy. Though the first oil well
in Egypt was drilled in 1886, oil exploration was not taken up on a systematic
basis until the turn of the century. Commercial production commenced in 1913,
but it was only after 1968 that oil production exceeded 10 million tons. The
current production level is around 500,000 barrels a day (25 million tons per
annum) of which about 25 percent represents the share of foreign partners, 45
percent is consumed domestically and the balance is exported. Recoverable
reserves are estimated at around 2.5 billion barrels (350 million tons). Asso-
ciated with the production of oil, 100 million cubic feet a day (MM cf/d) of
gas (one million tons of oil equivalent per annum) is estimated to have been
produced in 1979, which is being flared except for a small amount consumed
in the oil fields. Four non-associated gas fields at Abu Gharadig, Abu Madi,
Abu Qir and Amal are estimated to have recoverable reserves amounting to 3.3
trillion cubic feet. Of these, the first three gas fields have been developed
1/   In the context of the proposed third power project which is also being
processed for consideration in FY80, the hydropower generating facilities
of the (old) Aswan will be increased by an additional 270 MW.



- 11 -
which, in 1979, produced about 110 MMcf/d of gas, equivalent to 1.1 million
tons of oil. When fully exploited these four gas fields would replace about
4 million tons of liquid hydrocarbons. Elf-Aquitaine has recently discovered
an off-shore gas field 55 kilometers north east of Alexandria. While further
drilling would be required to fully delineate this field, recoverable reserves
from the existing production data are estimated at 3.0 trillion cubic feet.
This gas field, when developed, would add significantly to gas supplies in
Egypt. Currently, the production potential of natural gas is greater than
demand. This situation is likely to reverse itself over the next few years,
however. In connection with Loan 1732-EGT, the Bank is financing a study to
address the questions of gas use optimization and the need to upgrade this
resource from a substitute for fuel oil to higher value uses.
Exploration Policy
35.       For exploration, development and production of oil, Egypt has consis-
tently followed an 'open-door policy' and almost all exploratio.n and production
work undertaken within the country has been through foreign oil companies.
Under the current production sharing agreements, the cost of exploration and
development is borne exclusively by foreign contractors and amortized, interest
free, over the next 4 and 8 years respectively. After taking into account
these, and also the operating costs, 'profit oil' 1/ is shared between the
foreign contractors and Egypt in a given ratio. In successive agreements,
Egypt has improved upon its share of profit oil and recently some agreements
have been concluded in which Egypt's share of profit oil has been negotiated
at 87 percent.
36.       The exploration policy, as pursued by Egypt, has served well the
Government's objective of maximizing oil production without bearing any risk
of exploration. Of the present level of production of 500,000 barrels per
day, as much as 470,000 barrels are produced from these concessions. Since
1973, 53 exploration and production agreements have been entered into with
foreign companies for an area covering about 160,000 sq. kms. At present
these production sharing agreements provide on average for a split of oil in
the ratio of 1:3 between the foreign contractors and the national oil company.
Even at the anticipated higher level of production, the share of foreign
contractors is not likely to go down significantly.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
37.       Over the past few years, there has been an impressive upswing in
the production of oil in Egypt which rose from 11.5 million tons in 1974 to
an estimated 25 million tons in 1979. More than 75 percent of Egypt's oil
production is obtained from the Gulf of Suez. Egypt anticipates a continued
upswing in petroleum production which is projected to exceed 35 million tons
by 1981 and reach about 47 million tons by 1983, a production level it hopes
to sustain thereafter. However, attainment of the projected production rate
1/   "Profit oil" is the difference between total oil production and "cost
oil". "Cost oil" consists of operating cost and amortized cost
relative to exploration and development.



- 12 -
is predicated upon new discoveries being made, which will not only double
the current level of production but would also compensate for the decline in
production from oil fields which have already peaked. Failure to achieve the
assumed discovery rates could result in a significant shortfall. In any case,
the lags which are inherent in the development of an oil field will make it
extremely difficult to achieve the target originally stipulated for the
1978-82 Plan period.
Consumption Pattern
38.       The consumption of petroleum products has been rising sharply,
increasing from 6.7 million tons in 1974 to 9.1 million tons in 1977 and to
an estimated 11.7 million tons in 1979. The overall annual growth rate has
been in the order of 11.8 percent with liquified petroleum gas (LPG) recording
the sharpest increase (16 percent). Over the next two years EGPC projects an
overall growth rate of 12.5 percent. It is anticipated that, in the absence
of effective demand management and/or significant increase in the price
levels, this growth rate in consumption would be maintained until 1985. This
relatively high growth rate is attributable in part to a quantum jump in
thermal power generation which is projected to rise from 17 billion kWh in
1980 to 28 billion kWh in 1985. The growth rate beyond 1985 would depend, in
part, on the introduction of coal-fired and nuclear power plants. Egypt hopes
to commission after 1990 a nuclear plant having a capacity of 600 MW. Delays
in commissioning the proposed plants would result in a greater reliance on
fossil fuels for power generation.
Energy Sector Issues
39.      The price system in Egypt is still characterized by a great deal of
centralized control and involves substantial explicit or implicit subsidies
on many goods and services. The prices of energy supplies are set at levels
that are substantially below their opportunity cost (border prices) to the
economy. The Government has traditionally kept the overall price of energy
low relative to the rest of the domestic prices to foster industrial growth
through publicly owned enterprises. At present, close to 58 percent of the
petroleum products is consumed by industry and the power sector, and about
82 percent of the electricity generated is consumed either by industry or
Government-related activities. The low prices for energy continue to hinder
the ability of the entities in the energy sector to generate sufficient
revenues to finance the capital investment necessary to meet future needs.
An additional shortcoming of the prevailing pricing structure is that the
relative scarcity of the various competing energy products is not reflected in
the prevailing price system. This leads to the use of energy resources in a
non-optimal combination.
40.       Increasing the domestic prices of energy resources to the interna-
tional level should be the goal of the national energy pricing policy. How-
ever, this is a long-term objective which is primarily determined by the
ability of the Egyptian economy to structurally adjust and absorb the new
higher prices. This adjustment is particularly difficult in the Egyptian
economy with its extensive system of subsidies, price controls and quantity
rationing where the impact of increases in the price of energy requires
careful analysis. In connection with the Gulf of Suez Gas Project (Loan



- 13 -
1732-EGT) and the first power project (Loan 1453-EGT), the Bank is financing a
pricing study for petroleum products and another study for the formulation of
electricity tariffs. Both studies aim at the improvement of the overall
pricing of energy in Egypt. The implementation of the results of these
studies will require continued Bank involvement in the sector which is being
provided for under existing agreements.
41.       Pending the outcome of the above studies, the Bank intends to
continue its dialogue with the Government, in connection with ongoing and
proposed gas and power projects, aimed at bringing about improvements in
energy pricing policy affecting key petroleum products and electricity
tariffs. In this regard, the Government has confirmed its policy to bring
about over the coming three years a gradual real increase in average energy
prices, so as to significantly reduce this gap in nominal terms by the end of
1983. Where energy is used by public sector economic enterprises, the Govern-
ment will direct them to pass additional costs on to final consumers, except
in a limited number of identified cases (e.g., mass transportation) where
conservation goals dictate a different policy. Further, certain specific
positive developments have already taken place. Under the proposed Cairo Gas
Distribution project, for instance, the Government has agreed to two important
pricing measures: (i) domestic consumers will be charged a price which is
substantially above the current price of city gas and liquefied petroleum gas,
and (ii) two small power stations to be supplied with natural gas under the
project will pay about two and a half times the price charged until recently
to all power stations. Also, it should be noted that in January 1980, in a
move to improve energy pricing, the Government increased prices of petroleum
products by about 20 percent with the exception of the prices of liquefied
petroleum gas and fuel oil, which remained unchanged. Electricity tariffs for
residential and small commercial consumers were also increased on the average
by 20 percent.
42.       Also, as mentioned in paragraph 34, the Bank is financing a study to
address the questions of gas use optimization and the need to upgrade this
resource from a fuel oil substitute to higher value uses. Even now, before
the study is completed, there are known areas where gas may be used as a
substitute for liquid fuels thereby increasing exports (fuel oil) and reducing
imports (LPG and kerosene). Government policy has encouraged such substitu-
tions since in recent years, the Government has faced increasing difficulties
in meeting domestic consumer demand in large urban areas as international
prices for LPG and kerosene (the two main fuels used) have increased rapidly,
putting a heavy and constant burden on Egypt's balance of payments. In
addition, the rapid change taking place in Cairo from low level housing to
modern high rise buildings, makes the regular use of portable fuels extremely
hazardous. The two alternatives for meeting domestic urban fuel needs are
electricity and piped gas. Since electricity is less energy efficient and
more costly than gas, the government has decided to embark on a program to
create gas distribution networks in the major cities. The first step in this
program, for which the Government has requested IDA assistance under the
proposed project, would be the construction of a gas distribution network
in four districts of Cairo which, because of the nature of the housing and
the level of consumer demand appears to be the most suitable. The project
should be followed by the expansion of gas distribution to other areas in
Cairo and in Alexandria.



- 14 -
Bank Group Participation in the Energy Sector
43.       The Bank Group has made two loans/credits for power in Egypt.  A
loan (1453 EGT) of $48 million was made in 1977 for regional electrification
providing for rehabilitation and extension of electric power facilities serv-
ing a regional population in urban zones and rural centers outside Cairo
and Alexandria. Progress on the project is satisfactory and the project
is expected to be completed on schedule by the end of 1980. In June 1979 an
IDA credit of $37 million, a Bank loan of $102 million, and an EEC Special
Action credit of $35 million (Loan 1733 EGT et al) were approved to help
finance part of the foreign cost of the first stage (600 MW) of a 900 MW
thermal power station at Shoubrah El Kheima. Bidding documents for civil
works and electro-mechanical equipment are expected to be issued in late 1980,
respectively. The expansion of the Shoubrah El Kheima power station to cover
part of the foreign cost of the third 300 MW unit together with the installa-
tion of additional hydropower generation facilities at Aswan and a regional
electrification component are the subject of a proposed third power project
which is also scheduled for Board consideration during the current fiscal
year. In the oil and gas sector, the Bank made a first loan of $75 million
to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) for the Gulf of Suez Gas
Project (Loan 1732-EGT) in June 1979. The project is designed to gather,
process and transport associated gas from oil fields in the Gulf of Suez which
is presently being flared. The stripped gas would be used principally as fuel
for electric power generation and industrial users, thus freeing fuel oil and
diesel oil which could be exported. The project also includes financing for
several important sector studies covering energy pricing, oil/gas reserve
assessment and optimal utilization of gas as mentioned above.
The Beneficiary
44.       The proposed IDA credit would be onlent by the Government to
Petrogas, a Government owned enterprise established as a subsidiary of EGPC
in September 1978. Petrogas has assumed all functions relating to storage,
distribution and marketing of LPG in Egypt, which were formerly performed by
the Societe Cooperative des Petroles (COOP), another fully owned EGPC sub-
sidiary. Nevertheless it was created primarily to promote and implement the
proposed gas distribution project and upon its completion to function as a
gas utility. While Petrogas is a relatively new entity it has drawn upon
the competent and experienced personnel of EGPC and its subsidiaries to man
its senior levels. Most of the present managers in Petrogas have extensive
experience in the oil industry and are therefore capable of discharging their
functions satisfactorily in so far as they relate to LPG operations. The oil
industry in Egypt, however, has had little experience in domestic gas distri-
bution. Petrogas, moreover, being a new entity, needs to create an organiza-
tion which, besides overseeing LPG operations, would be capable of implement-
ing the proposed project and operating a safe gas utility. The organization
and staffing needs of Petrogas were considered at length. Petrogas agreed
with the Association that in order to adequately implement and manage the
proposed project, it would need to strengthen the existing corporate structure
by establishing and maintaining a senior management group, a construction
management group and a natural gas operations group. Petrogas further agreed
to establish and appropriately staff the structure agreed to, by December 31,
1980 (Project Agreement (PA), Section 3.01(a)).



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       The project was identified in January 1978.  Following the prepara-
tion of a detailed project report by EGPC with the assistance of consultants,
extensive consultations took place between EGPC and IDA on the proposed design
which was found to be expensive and inflexible. A new project design was
therefore prepared with the assistance of newly appointed consultants (British
Gas), who are financed under the Gulf of Suez Gas Project (Loan 1732 EGT).
The revised project design was appraised in October 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington from March 24 to April 1, 1980. The Government of Egypt
was represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy,
Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation; EGPC by Mr. Abdul Aziz, Vice Chairman,
Financial Affairs and Petrogas by Mr. Abu Bakr, Chairman. A supplementary
project data sheet is attached as Annex III. A staff appraisal report (No.
2766-EGT) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objective
46.       In order to reduce its reliance on imports, Egypt intends to use
natural gas, available within the country, as a replacement for LPG, kerosene,
and gas oil. As a first step in this direction, the proposed project aims
at providing natural gas to two gas turbine plants and creating a gas distri-
bution network in four districts of Cairo--Helwan, Maadi, Nasr City and
Heliopolis. In so doing, natural gas use would be upgraded from a substitute
for fuel oil, to a replacement for higher value products such as LPG and gas
oil. Currently Egypt imports 70 percent of its LPG requirements, as well as
marginal quantities of gas oil. This project would thus generate significant
foreign exchange savings and make the Egyptian economy less vulnerable to
external price fluctuations.
Project Description
47.       The project would consist of the following components:
(a) construction of approximately 55 km of high-pressure pipeline
which would be optimally sized to serve up to 640,000 households;
(b) an odorizing unit and four pressure-reduction stations at Helwan,
Maadi, Nasr City and Heliopolis;
(c) a distribution network of medium-density polyethylene pipes,
approximately 900 km in length; along with 9,000 services for
connecting customers with gas at an average rate of one service
for approximately 18 customers;
(d) external and internal installation of pipes in about 160,000
households complete with gas meters, service risers, laterals,
etc; and conversion of about 300,000 existing appliances from LPG
to natural gas;



- 16 -
(e) supervisory control and cathodic protection for the gas pipelines;
and
(f) technical assistance, training, and project-related studies.
Supply and Market
48.       The sources of gas supply for the proposed project would be the oil
and gas field at Abu Gharadig, South of El Alamein, about 270 km from Cairo
(see map). This field which was discovered in 1971 has estimated recoverable
reserves of 600 billion standard cubic feet (scf). If exclusively dedicated
to the project, the reserves would be adequate to support it over its economic
life of 30 years. EGPC agreed to operate the Abu Gharadig or any other gas
fields subsequently discovered and linked to the Cairo gas distribution system,
in a manner permitting the availability of gas for the system over at least 16
years after completion of the project (PA, Section 2.11)   The project area is
composed of four suburbs on the south-east side of Cairo. Factors responsible
for the selection of these four districts were proximity to the gas source,
relative ease in laying the distribution network and undertaking carcassing, 1/
density of accessible consumers and future growth potential. All the selected
districts are currently heavy users of LPG and are expected to grow rapidly in
terms of high rise housing, which lends itself ideally to a gas distribution
network. The proposed project would provide gas to nearly all households in
the four areas.
49.       City gas is not new to Cairo.  The Egyptian Electricity Authority
is presently operating a network, producing gas from naphta. Over the years
this network which supplies only 5000 customers has developed extensive leaks
and fallen into disrepair. While it is doubtful that the area covered under
the system (covering central Cairo) will be connected to the gas distribution
system under the proposed project, the Government agreed (i) that a study be
carried out by June 30, 1981, reviewing the economic feasibility of rehab-
ilitating and converting this system to natural gas and link it with the proj-
ect, and (ii) to implement recommendations emanating from the study, which are
mutually acceptable to the Government and the Association (Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), Section 3.02).
50.       Between 1980-83 the project would convert 160,000 existing house-
holds from LPG to natural gas. The Government agreed to finance, or cause
EGPC to finance, the cost of internal carcassing of these apartments and the
conversion of related appliances (DCA, Section 3.04). In addition, during the
same period, it is estimated that 30,000 new dwellings needing gas connections
would be built in the project area. In new housing, the responsibility for
internal carcassing and external piping up to the periphery of the property
1/   The term "carcassing" refers to outlet service pipes, service risers,
laterals, installation of pipes inside the dwellings, pipe ducts, con-
trol cocks, etc.



- 17 -
line would rest with the builder. The Government agreed to issue prior to
December 31, 1980 a relevant decree reflecting this responsibility (DCA,
Section 3.03). Petrogas would be required to provide service lines from the
"mains" to the property line.  It is estimated that by the end of 1983 there
will be 190,000 consumers which would increase to 640,000 by year 2005.
51.       As to the consumption pattern, it has been estimated that once the
gas network has become operative, initial gas consumption would be at the same
level as the average consumption per customer of LPG, i.e. 315 kilograms
equivalent per annum. But once a piped gas supply becomes continuously avail-
able, the consumption per household would grow at 1 percent per annum. In
aggregate terms, demand for gas by domestic households is estimated at 8 MMcf/d
in the fifth year and 19 MMcf/d in the twentieth year of operation. In addi-
tion to supplying gas to domestic households, the proposed project would also
meet the requirements of two power stations (gas turbine units) at Nasr City
and Heliopolis at a cumulative gas load of 12 MMcf/d.
Project Implementation
52.        Petrogas would have overall responsibility for implementing the
proposed project. It has appointed British Gas as its engineering consultants
who will assist in designing and supervising the construction of the project.
This arrangement is considered satisfactory. Since consultants are important
to the successful implementation of the project, Petrogas agreed to continue
to employ experienced consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (PA, Section 2.02). Consistent with current practice in the gas
industry, Petrogas has awarded a single responsibility contract for the entire
project (see para. 56 below). The selected contractor would be responsible
for detailed engineering, construction of the high pressure pipeline, the
distribution network, carcassing of dwellings and conversion of appliances.
The contractor has agreed to a detailed construction schedule and is committed
to complete the project within a period of four years (i.e. by December 1983).
Although the selected contractor is responsible for building the project on a
turnkey basis, it would nonetheless impose a considerable burden on the orga-
nization of Petrogas. For this reason Petrogas' organizational requirements,
recruitment schedule, and the training needs were evaluated. Necessary action
by Petrogas with respect to organizational changes and recruitment requirements
as well as training needs are referred to in paras. 44 and 58, respectively.
Project Cost and Financing
53.        The project cost is estimated at US$155.0 million, of which US$103.8
million would be in foreign exchange. The basic project cost of US$124.3 mil-
lion is based on the firm bids 1/ received from the lowest evaluated bidder.
1/   Bids were invited on unit rate basis and evaluated on a detailed estimate
of quantities. While these estimates are fairly firm for the transmission
network, the quantities involving carcassing and conversion are likely to
undergo modificat.ion as detailed design progresses.



- 18 -
It must, however, be noted that an element of uncertainty remains in regard
to cost estimates for internal carcassing and conversion of appliances.
Petrogas, at the Bank's suggestion, undertook a sample survey to estimate the
average length of service lines, risers, laterals, and carcassing required per
household, and to assess the density, diversity, and condition of appliances.
While the cost estimates take note of the survey, the possibility of devia-
tion in the actual cost for carcassing and conversion cannot be excluded. In
light of initial construction experience Petrogas would refine carcassing and
conversion estimates.
54.       In computing cost estimates, physical contingencies have been
estimated, on the average, at 10 percent for equipment, material and consul-
tancy services and at 3 percent for the high pressure transmission pipeline,
odorizing unit, pressure regulating stations, and gas meters. A relatively
low contingency factor has been assumed as the contract for these items has
been awarded on a fixed rate basis. A contingency factor of 10 percent has
been assumed for the distribution network and 15 percent for carcassing of
apartments and conversion of appliances. Price contingencies of 9, 8 and 7
percent have been assumed for the project's foreign and 12 and 11 percent for
the local components for 1981-83, respectively. Since Petrogas is exempt from
import duty, no allowance has been made for this purpose in cost estimates.
Engineering and consultancy services have been calculated on a unit cost of
$9,000 per man month. This rate was derived from the existing contract
between Petrogas and its consultants.
55.       The proposed IDA credit of $50 million would finance 32 percent of
total or 48 percent of the project's foreign cost. In addition, $2.1 million
are provided under Loan 1732-EGT for the Gulf of Suez Gas project for tech-
nical assistance as agreed under that project. The Government agreed to
finance in conjunction with EGPC the remaining foreign and local cost as well
as any cost overrun (DCA, Section 3.01(b)). The proposed credit would be made
to the Arab Republic of Egypt which, in turn, would onlend the proceeds to
Petrogas through a subsidiary loan agreement. The loan to Petrogas would be
for a period of 20 years with a grace period of five years at 8.25 interest
per annum. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Arab
Republic of Egypt and Petrogas would be a condition of effectiveness of the
credit (DCA, Section 5.02(b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Consistent with current practice in the gas industry, Petrogas has
awarded a single responsibility contract for the entire project. Separating
the overall project into discrete components was considered but was discarded
since it would have presented serious coordination problems, particularly at
several points of interface where problems of safety are most acute. Petrogas
invited prospective contractors to prequalify and fifty firms responded to
Petrogas' bid invitation and nine firms were prequalified. Tender documents
were prepared by Petrogas' consultants, in response to which three bids were
received from prequalified contractors. Petrogas, with the assistance of
its consultants, evaluated the bids and awarded the contract to the lowest



- 19 -
evaluated bidder on November 22, 1979. IDA reviewed the procurement proce-
dures, including the specifics of prequalification, and 'found them generally
to comply to its guidelines. IDA agreed to advance contracting because of the
emergence of exceptional conditions in the international oil market during and
immediately following bid preparation. By not allowing advance contracting,
project implementation would have been delayed significantly, increasing not
only the project costs, but also substantially the import burden. While
staging of the project would have reduced the extent of advance contracting,
it would have increased the overhead costs of the contractors and increased
the risk of delays and of not having a sufficient number of customers connected
to the network when the latter is completed. Before agreeing to advanced con-
tracting: (a) the overall project design was reviewed and found appropriate;
(b) the Government was advised that it was awarding the contract at its own
risk and that it did not in any fashion commit IDA to grant a credit for the
project; and (c) the Executive Directors were advised of the advance contract-
ing through the Monthly Operational Summary.
57.       Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures on the high pressure transmission pipeline, odorizing unit,
pressure regulating stations, and distribution network, and training, as well
as consultants' services. Retroactive financing of US$5 million is recom-
mended for expenditures incurred by Petrogas (essentially downpayments) on
items proposed to be financed by IDA between November 22, 1979 (date of
the award of contract) and the date of the signature of the credit. It is
anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed by June 1984.
Training
58.       As indicated above, little or no experience exists in Egypt on the
construction of a gas distribution network and operation of a gas utility.
With the help of its consultants, Petrogas has agreed to design and implement
an extensive training program for various categories of personnel. It would
in this context also establish a training school to train Egyptians in various
facets of gas industry. Training is essential not only to ensure adequate
supervision of the contractor, but also to create a corps of trained manpower
which can rapidly replace the expatriate work force. To ensure that the
necessary transfer of skills and technology is effected, it would be necessary
for Petrogas and Petrojet (a construction and contracting subsidiary of EGPC),
to depute its personnel to the contractor. The contractor would provide the
requisite training and thereafter utilize this personnel in project construc-
tion. Petrogas and Petrojet are currently negotiating such an arrangement
with the contractor. Petrogas agreed to (i) prepare by December 31, 1980,
with the assistance of its consultants, a detailed assessment of the overall
training requirements of its personnel, (ii) submit to the Association by
March 31, 1981 a detailed training program for its review and implement the
agreed upon training program thereafter. Furthermore, Petrogas agreed to
enter into a satisfactory agreement with the contractor by December 31, 1980,
to train Petrogas personnel (PA, Sections 3.01(b)-(d)).
Safety and Ecology
59.       All fuels carry with them the risk of fire or explosion through a
sudden release of energy. Although natural gas is a much safer fuel than



- 20 -
LPG (being lighter than air, of lower calorific value and transported through
fixed pipes), no gas system is immune from risk. With proper care, however,
these risks can be reduced. Customer and employee safety is a primary con-
sideration for a gas utility. To realize this goal, three main conditions
must be assured; firstly, good specifications that set out high material and
construction standards; secondly, well-defined and high standard operating
practices and procedures; and finally, a corps of well trained employees
who serve established specifications, standards, practices, and procedures,
and routinely record and monitor actual performance, to establish proof
of adherence. To meet the above requirements for the proposed project,
Petrogas has adopted British specifications where the gas system has a laud-
able safety record. It has also hired a contractor with extensive experience
in laying gas networks and undertaking conversions in Europe. Separately, it
would need to establish a rigorous supervisory procedure to ensure that the
contractor adheres to specifications. This would, inter alia, require setting
up an independent safety organization to undertake a technical audit, initiate
a training program for the first line supervisors, and establish a detailed
code for supervisory and safety tests. Petrogas agreed to continue to employ
engineering consultants which would assist in preparing a code of supervisory
and safety tests required for the project (PA, Section 2.02).
60.       No major environmental problems are likely to result from the imple-
mentation of the project. Natural gas is benign to the environment and its
extensive use as domestic fuel is likely to reduce the pollution level in
Cairo. The pipeline itself would pose no serious environmental hazard since
it would be buried, and measures would be taken to assure proper protection,
maintenance and operation.  Design and construction would be in accordance with
appropriate codes and standards to minimize the chances of over-pressurization,
corrosion, and third party damage.
Financial Aspects
61.       Although Petrogas activities as of its date of incorporation
(September 1, 1978) were exclusively LPG distribution, the emphasis of its
responsibilities will progressively shift towards domestic gas distribution.
While sales of LPG and natural gas serve a similar purpose (provision of
energy to domestic users), the financial and managerial characteristics of
both operations are very different. LPG incremental investments are directly
linked to demand and are relatively inexpensive but the cost of this imported
energy is high. Gas operations in turn are highly capital intensive with
large initial investments and low incremental expenditures as consumption
develops, but cost of the gas, an indigenous commodity, is low.
62.       Petrogas purchases LPG at a highly subsidized price from EGPC (LE
24 per ton as compared to current border price of over LE 300 per ton) and
resells it at the domestic price (LE 52 per ton). The difference (or 'commis-
sion') was set in such a way as to cover operating, storage, distribution
costs, etc., as well as a budgeted margin of about 12.5 percent of selling
price. This system permits financial viability of Petrogas LPG activities
independently of the actual economic cost of the energy. Since November 1973,
there have been no increases in the selling price of LPG to the public, nor



- 21 -
review of purchasing price from EGPC; as LPG operating costs have increased
significantly with domestic and international inflation, margins have shrunk
from LE 6.5 per ton in 1973 to LE 4.8 per ton in 1978. EGPC therefore agreed
to maintain Petrogas' commission on LPG operations at a level which would
enable it to meet all its operating expenses related to LPG distribution (PA,
Section 2.12).
63.        As regards natural gas operations, Petrogas would purchase its
supplies from EGPC. The latter and Petrogas agreed to enter into an agreement
whereby EGPC would supply Petrogas with the quantities of gas required to
service the two gas turbine stations and the domestic consumers connected to
the distribution system, at a price which would not be less, in terms of
British Thermal Units (BTU), than the domestic price of fuel oil to power
stations (PA, Section 4.03). Based on the present domestic price for fuel
oil, a transfer price for gas of LE 0.19 ($0.28) per Mcf, increasing by 10
percent a year, has been assumed in the financial projections. Pricing of
natural gas by Petrogas will be set at a level so as to ensure that over the
longer term, operating revenues cover operating expenses, debt service, and
provide a reasonable contribution to future expansion of natural gas facilities.
Because of the necessary time lag in connecting sizeable numbers of consumers,
Petrogas will require a number of years before it can earn a reasonable rate
of return on its net fixed assets, to achieve the objectives set above. On
the basis of present forecasts it is reasonable to request Petrogas to earn 9
percent on its net revalued natural gas fixed assets only after 1990. In the
meantime, Petrogas agreed to set the price of natural gas at such levels that
would generate revenues sufficient to cover, until the end of 1983, at least
operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt service, and working capital
needs. In this context, it is understood that the average price of natural
gas to domestic consumers would at no time be less than LE 3 ($4.32) and to
the two power stations to be supplied under the project not less than LE 0.51
($0.73) per Mcf. Petrogas further agreed to review on the basis of realistic
forecasts, for the first time on March 31, 1983, and, thereafter, on March 31
in each fiscal year, the adequacy of its prices for natural gas to produce for
the current and next following fiscal year the following rates of return on
revalued net assets:
1984-85    1986-87    1988-89    1990    1991 and thereafter
3%         4%           5%        7%       not less than 9%
(PA, Section 4.06(a) and (b)). The Government and EGPC agreed to take all
action necessary on their part to enable Petrogas to meet the above obliga-
tions (DCA, Section 3.01(a) and PA, Section 4.06(c)).
64.        It is anticipated that an average revenue from sales to domestic
consumers of LE 3 per Mcf would provide sufficient income to cover operating
expenses and debt service requirements during the period 1980 through 1984.
As regards the sale of gas to the two power stations under the project, the
above price of LE 0.51 ($0.73) per Mcf represents a sizeable increase over the
LE 0.19 ($0.28) per Mcf charged until recently to all power stations. The



- 22 -
above financial arrangements would ensure that Petrogas functions as a non-
subsidized public utility for its gas operations incurring all actual costs
involved in the process of gas distribution, while still achieving an adequate
return.
65.       Setting the price for domestic users at the proposed level repre-
sents a major increase above the current price of LPG (an effective doubling)
and could impose undue hardship on poorer consumers. To make the increased
cost burden more equitable, a graduated tariff structure will be designed
which would still secure Petrogas the average revenue indicated above while
increasing only slightly the average domestic fuel bill of the smaller con-
sumers. To this end, EGPC and Petrogas agreed to undertake jointly a relevant
tariff study by December 31, 1980; the results of the study would be submitted
to the Association for review and comment. Petrogas would implement the
agreed tariff by the time the first consumers are connected (PA, Section 4.04).
Other Financial Covenants
66.       Debt Service:  While Petrogas' sales revenues should in principle
enable it to cover debt service and working capital needs, the Government
agreed to provide in conjunction with EGPC the necessary contribution should
a shortfall arise. Also, Petrogas agreed not to incur long term debt for its
natural gas operations without consulting with IDA, unless a reasonable fore-
cast of Petrogas' projected net revenues from its natural gas operations for
each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be (i) for 1981
and 1982 not less than 1 times, and (ii) for each year thereafter not less than
1.5 times the projected debt service requirements for these operations in such
year (DCA, Section 3.01(b) and PA, Section 4.05).
67.       Accounts and Audit:  Petrogas is obligated by law to prepare full
accounts of its financial position and of annual operations by the end of
every year. These accounts are subject to an external audit by the Egyptian
"Central Accounting Authority". Like all other public sector companies,
Petrogas follows the "Unified Accounting System". A general review of the
accounting practices of EGPC will be carried out shortly as part of a study
financed under Loan 1732 EGT. EGPC has agreed to consult with the Bank on the
findings of the diagnostic study and to commence the implementation of a plan
of action for itself and its subsidiaries by July 31, 1980. In addition, in
order to provide for an efficient follow up of project development Petrogas
agreed to establish, with the assistance of consultants, an information system
for its natural gas operations, which would lead to complete and separate
accounts for those operations. As to audit, Petrogas agreed to have the
project accounts and its other accounts and financial statements independently
audited and to supply IDA with copies of such statements no later than nine
months after the end of every year (PA, Section 4.01(c)).
Benefits and Justification
68.       The project's primary justification is the savings which accrue to
the Government of Egypt by upgrading the use of its natural gas from a replace-
ment for fuel oil to a substitute for gas oil and LPG. The project is the
least cost method of meeting domestic energy demand in the project area and



- 23 -
makes optimal use of Abu Ghardig gas. Natural gas prices will be increased
significantly under the project, and a progressive tariff structure will be
instituted to shield small consumers from international energy prices for
their basic cooking needs, while encouraging larger users to conserve energy.
The project has been designed to result in a significant transfer of techno-
logy and skills to Petrogas, which will enable it to expand domestic gas dis-
tribution in Cairo and other urban areas in the future with minimal expatriate
input.
69.       In computing the project's internal rate of return it has been
assumed that without the project Egypt would continue using LPG and gas oil
to meet project area demands and would use the natural gas as a replacement
for fuel oil in Cairo. LPG and, in all probability, gas oil would have to
be imported. Thus project benefits, in effect, are represented by the dif-
ferential between the border prices of imported LPG and gas oil (c.i.f.) and
the border price of fuel oil (f.o.b.) which is otherwise released for export.
On this basis the internal rate of return on the project is 43 percent. The
major uncertainties of the project affecting the rate of return are the timing
of the carcassing and conversion activities needed to connect domestic con-
sumers and the potential for marginal fuel substitution once increased natural
gas prices are implemented. If only 60 percent of projected consumption were
to take place each year due to delays in connections and/or LPG kerosene
substitution, the project's rate of return would be reduced to 40 percent.
If project costs were to increase by 30 percent, the total project return
would fall to 29 percent. If currently prevailing gas oil/LPG/fuel oil price
differentials were to continue over the project lifetime, the return would
increase to 67 percent.
70.       As regards technical risks, natural gas projects carry risks which
can be minimized, but not entirely eliminated. The project faces operational
and geological risks, and carries with it the risks of costly delays. None
of these are however significant deterrents to the project. While all natural
gas pipelines carry operational risks of explosion, etc., industry has devel-
oped techniques and technology to reduce them to a minimum level. The exist-
ing gas production facilities at Abu Ghardig are operated by an experienced
oil company (GUPCO). Proven gas reserves are more than adequate to meet
project needs. Possibilities of significantly augmenting gas supplies for
Cairo are high. Since Cairo is not in the earthquake zone, other geological
risks are minimal. However, slippages in implementation are likely for
a project of this nature and magnitude. Project implementation has been
designed to minimize these risks. The entire project has been awarded to one
contractor so as to reduce delays arising out of inadequate coordination.
In addition, substantial penalties for delays have been stipulated in the
contract. Similarly, the contract contains significant incentives for early
completion.
71.       An economic risk of the project is the possibility that domestic
consumers might prefer to continue to use heavily subsidized LPG and kerosene
or electricity rather than the high priced natural gas. While it is expected
that the energy pricing study financed under the previous loan to EGPC (see
para. 40 above) will recommend an increase in kerosene and LPG prices, it



- 24 -
cannot be assumed that such recommendations will be implemented by the time
this project is completed. Therefore, in addition to continuing discussions
with the Government on the general issue of energy pricing, the potential for
fuel substitution and its possible effect on project benefits has been care-
fully reviewed. With respect to kerosene, odor and safety problems limit its
current and future use to the lowest income areas. In those areas, however,
the progressive tariff structure with its lifeline rate for small users will
minimize any substitution incentive. In the more affluent areas, electricity
and LPG are the relevant candidates for natural gas substitution. With
respect to electricity, very high front-end costs would be involved as all
electric stoves have to be imported. In addition, the present power tariff of
LE .02/kWh is significantly above the natural gas equivalent price even
allowing for possible efficiency advantages of electric appliances. The risk
of substantial switching back to LPG is limited because (i) the Government
will close LPG distribution centers in the project area so that sizeable
transportation costs would be involved; (ii) the initial houses connected to
the distribution system will have to trade in the LPG cylinders in order to be
converted free of charge to natural gas; (iii) switching back to LPG would
require either re-conversion or replacement of appliances, which would repre-
sent high initial costs; and (iv) natural gas has advantages over LPG in terms
of safety and supply which will be advertised and appreciated by such consumers.
Sensitivity tests show that marginal substitution back to LPG or kerosene
caused by the introduction of higher priced gas would have only a minimal
effect on the project rate of return.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion, the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation and Petrogas, and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1. d. of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section 3 of Annex
III.
74.       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and Petrogas is a special condition of effectiveness of the credit (Develop-
ment Credit Agreeement, Section 5.02(b)).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.






- 26 -                                           Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIA. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AIJRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 EGYPT                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          1001.4                                                  SAME       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     29.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME    INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d  GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                 90.0       150.0    400.0           1532.5      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0       275.0    473.0            838.1      83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    25.9        32.6      37.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0       42.3      43.9            49.0       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     58.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      26.0        33.0      39.0            19.9       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0     1125.0   1324.0             99.0      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.0        42.1      40.0            45.6       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.0        54.7      56.0            51.4      53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.2       4.0             2.8        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.3       2.1             3.0        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             6.0         3.4       2.7             5.2        4.6        4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0        40.0      36.0            43.7       42.4       39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0        15.0      13.0            13.5       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.8ff       3.0       2.3             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       206.0    187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         9.0      21.1              ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTIITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         92.6        99.0      95.0            90.8       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       106.0    113.0             99.0       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         66.0        66.0      70.7            63.6       52.1       54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0/1      16.0      16.0            16.0       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    31.0        23.0      18.0            15.9       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.0        51.0      54.0            53.8      49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..    108.0              ..       105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      66.0            56.4       26.3       34.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      88.0            83.4       58.5       57.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      50.0            34.3       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            59.1       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            78.2       65.1       71.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            26.4        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2600.0      1910.0   1190.0/h         3677.0   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2730.0/h    1640.0/h  115.0.ZE        1730.6    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           U40.0       460.0    460.0            577.0    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                              ..       290.0    250.0               ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                              ..      2110.0   2090.0               ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            21.8       24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.0          ..       5.8             5.8        5.3        5.4
URBAN                             4.8          ..       5.6             5.5        4.9        5.1
AURAL                              ..          ..       6.0             6.0        5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                             1.6          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.0          ..      45.7            45.1       23.5       28.1
URBAN                            37.8          ..      77.0            67.9       17.8       45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      19.6              ..        ..9.9



- 27 -                                            Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AtjLAGES
- MOSr RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Ab ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        69.0      72.0            85.0       63.3        82.7
HALE                 80.0        84.0      88.0           103.7       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               52.0        53.0      56.0            66.0       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 16.0        32.0      42.0            27.6       16.7        21.4
MALE                 24.0        44.0      54.0            39.2       22.1        33.0
FEMALE                9.0        21.0      29.0            20.8       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENR.OL. (I OF SECONDARY) 22.0        19.0      18.0             4.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACEP, RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      40.0            32.6       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0      29.0            23.4       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..      44.0            41.4       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       6.4            16.7        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        58.0       132.0     138.0           147.9       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        16.0      17.0            36.0        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        22.0      21.0            17.9        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0         2.0        ..             2.9        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7482.0      9319.0   9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3         7.2       7.6             8.6       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             58.4        54.4      51.0            43.0       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2        18.8      26.0            23.7       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9        28.0      28.0            26.7       36.9        37.1
MALE                                53.2        51.5      51.3            46.4       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               4.2         4.1       4.3             5.1       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.6       1.8             1.8        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5LI      17.4/JJ.  22.0            21.4         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  44.41±      42. BLj,  49.2            48.6         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6A        7.0/i.1   5.1             5.3         *.         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17-5.      18.7jIl  14.8             15.0         *-        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    116.0            201.3       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      84.0           134.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    153.0            288.6       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0           107.0       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               *-          *-      21.0            22.9       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      25.0            31.2       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Etimte, betveen 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d  Low Iucome (5280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  Li 1960-62;  /h  Registered, not all
prenticing in the country;  /i  1964-65; Li  rural &.penditure only.
Moat Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 28 -
DSE_X 
DEFINITIONS OFSCA   IDCTR                                                           Page  3 o(  5
Ja.Ic:  The adjusted grop averages for eth Indicator are population-wighted geometric men,emeloding the mottoes vausof the iodlctatr ta  the Yoat
populatdcuty i  eac hgru.  Cveag  of coustrico amog the indic-tor. depends on  -vailbity Of data tod Es cat uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group avrae  forCptlSurplu  Oil fapoorers ted indicators of accost to water trod eaceeta disposal, housing. income dlstributioo sod p-nrty ar
staple popul.ttlo-wtghted geo...eric tacos without the eacluttoo of entrai..vlus
LAND AREA (thousan d eq. k.)                                                             Population oar hoptlIo,ttl  urbhao. and rual - Populatioc (total,
Total - Total outface area cosprtisig lsod area sod inlandwaes                            urbas, sod rural) divided hy their respectIve number of hospital beds
Agriculua  - Mot receu  esiat f agricu ltural area  cedtemporarily                        availablei ulc e%rvt  gorlad  pcale  hospital sodfre-
Or p-rnaet1y for crops, . pttures  market    1 an Itche   gadens or to                  habltcocnes                 ospital  testbliahsentsp aetysafdb
lIe  fa1Iow                                                                             at least oane physicist        .tatablabents providiog principally custodial
caeaentin clude.d.  Rura  hopial,howeve r  Seclude health and medi-
DMPLPRCPTA(1$  - CNP pec capita estimates at current market prices.                        Col. Centes- nor Perma..stly staffed byaphysicia  (hut by a medical a
ca1,lcutscd by toes  - coovor  be nehod ot World Baok Atlas (1975-77 beasS);            sltanat,  uremidwife, arr.) which offer it-patlot ancosmodation sand
1960,1970,ad1977 data                                                                   provide a limited rsoge of medical facilitie..
Admissions Pet hospitalbed - Total tomber of sdisosto or discharges
ENERGY CtloTOoPER CAPITA - Annual  consumption of crecc.icl. energy                        from hospitals divided by the nuber of Soda.
(coalI and ligoite, petroleum, natural Sam and hydro-, suclear end geo-
thermal electricity) So kilograms of neat eqoiv-l.Eo  per rapite.                  HOUS1ING
A-erco  stof household (          persona .per  hoshold) -  oral. urbat, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuala who chars livieg quarters
Total pouation. mId-year_(iios  -A. of7July 1;ifnt avial,and theIr mainf stl.  tA boardero  lodger may or ma   ot.be inclu.ded in
a-rgootw  edyerstae;1960, 1970,. ad 1i977`dart                                          the hoshold frsaicna   upes                   tatisrical defioton o..f bou..-
Urbanyuuato  (Perc...t of toa)-Rtoo   rott   oa   oo                                       olvay
tion; different.defin itiosf   urbonarea  mayr afet cotporabilIty                    Avrc ubro   esn   e   om-ttl   re,and rural - Average nu.
of denst mgcoyoteis,                                                                    her of p..esons. prcoos in al, uran and erolocpe  ce nna
Populaindest                                                                              duellinga, respectively.  Dwell ings  nclude nun-P-prmaet structures ad
Pe   s. km.,- Mid-year population per square klloenttr (150 hectares)                   unoccupied Parts.oal
oftotal ares.                                                                       Access. to electricity (p.rCen.o  dPI     lios  -talurbao, sod rural-
Pe  c. km. aericultur  loud - Cospnred as above for agiutrloland                      Convetio..al dwellings with electricity In living quarters as percen.tage
only,                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population su        ,trnrr  (percent  - Children (i-li yeoro).wokn-i
(1-4 years), and retired (65 ye..ars sd ovr) as percentagos ofmd-                EDUCATION
Yeor PoPulton.                                                                       Adjustod enrollmen.t rarlue
Populariur  growt..h rote (ceent) - tccl. aud uhn-Cuepound annual                       Prmr0col-rrl   n  female1  - Tonal and Pslenomntof all ages
growth rttvs.oft tota  and urban mid-year Populattoona fo r 1910-60,                    at the primary level so perrentagen of respectivelIyprimary erhool-age
1960-70, god 1970-75.                                                                   populocloet ; ouraly teolude  chiLdoeaed6-1l yeors but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (yet tho-unod) - Annua,l lIve birthn per thousa.nd of                    differset lengths of primary education; for countries with  unvr Al  d-
mid-year populorio; t-n-yeae arIthmetic averagestendIng in 1960 and                     cation enrollment soy soceed 100 percent since tome pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for surrecent estints.                        above the offcial school age.
Crude death rate (vet thounad) - Annual deaths per thousan d of mid-                    lecoodary  chool - total. and female - Computed cc shove; secondary educe-
year population; tent-year arithmetic aveage  ending int1960 and 1970                   tion requires at lean.t four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
adfive-pear -srsge ending In..1975 fo otrcent estimate.                                vides general v-catio...l, or teacher training isatruntions for pupils
Gro.Sp reoroductivoi rate - Average, nubr  fdagte a  oa                 wilbeer           usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence Coonse. are g.eneraly
inhot noma  seprodu,Iv_periodif sh eerleuesprsentaectluded.
sp.cifi-cofertIlIty rats;usa lly  five-year averges ending in 1960,                  Voainlerlmn   preto   eodr)- Vocational inanitutl.se tok-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         dudea technical, Industrial, or other prog.tas which operate independeotly
famil planing -accepors,  nnual(thouands)- Annal nuber of                 orasdparmet  ofscnayintitutien..
acceptrur  of birth-control.de-icet under aupcso   ainl  aiy                         Ppltahor raio - primary, andiecodr- Total students enrolled So
Planviog prugras.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teac.hers in the corre-
family plauning - users (percent of married wunee) - ~Percenas  fspeiglels
mariedwoen  f  hil-herig ae  15-44 years) who use birth-coetrol                Adult lIteracy raste (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) a
device  toal  married wooso to sane age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 pears and over.
FOOD AND NUITRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
todno of food productio  Per capita (1970100) -.Inde, number of per                    Passenger car  (prthuan   opltion) - Passenger Cars comprise motor cars
c.piEs anoui Provductlu- of all fod.o.iie                                              etieg lees than eight person.; exclidee ambulances, hearses and military
Per cpiro  upplyof clorie  (narent  f requiresents) - Computed from          vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies s-ailable in country per capita               Radio receivers a(Per thousand PoPulctiooS  - All typee of receivers for radio
Per day.Availobl  sppie   comris .doesic production,  imports less                    broadcasts ca general public per thousan.d of population; earldes unlirens.ed
soporto, audch-cge  in stock.  Net supplies e.clude antoal feed, seeds,              receivers in coun.tries end is year. shoe registration of radi  ses  s  in
quantitieuoI in food process.ing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; dart for recent yasra sty not be conparoble sioc  most Countcie
qutirn__swvrer dote-td by FAGbused  o physiological needs fur nor-                    sbo1tohed licotog.. i
mol activity and heaIt h considerIng environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (Per thou..sod populttien) - TV receivers for broedcast to gener&
wegt,aeand sea diotrib.ri... of population, and allowing 10 par-                 public per thousand populartiue; excludes uniesd TV recei-ene In Com--
ostfa    ote mc household level.                                                  triose and In years whey registration of TV meatsa  is offect.
Per cplcosuppy of  roten (ooos  er da)  -  roten cotent of per         Newspaper rdclto prtosndpopulation) - Shows the -nerage  icu
Capit  net suPpl  of food per day.  Net supply of fod is defined astinf"dil   enea   iners                                .oupaperr. def1ined as a  eriodical publi-
shone.  Reqironocns  ur all nontniec esobilohed  y tISA provide for       ntien  denoted prImaiys  rcrdIng  eea   es                si   aodrdt
a  iiu    I..cuan   f 6  grsm    f tCota  Proe Iper day and 20&grans             be "dily" if it appears at leat fourgtimesI a wek.
of tualad Pulse Protein, of which 10 gram. shouldhe animaliprotein.                  Cinema anulatnac   e   a sPer Year - Based onithe number of tickets
These s.tandards ar -lnr thas thoseo   5gaso   oa  protol  and                          slduigthe year, including adoinatoe  to dolt-i    .....t co d sbilt
23 grasso  anoIsa  proti  cc as ave'rage"furthe wortld, propuso..d by                   uite
FAG in the Thir  World fod Survey.
Per capIta proteidn sunolto from animal  nd oulse - Proteio supply of food            EMPLOYMTENT
derived from animals and pulees in gtrams per dsy.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - fro...cically-active persons. including armed
Child (see  1-4) mortlity rate  per thousad) - Annual deatha Per thout-        forces and uoemployed but secluding hou-sies, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to Childres in thisi age group.                             tion- inveoscoun tries are not comparable.
female  pierce   - Femal 1.labor force as parretagv of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agricutur  (excert) - Labor.forcei  farming. forestry. hunting ahd fishing
Life snprt-touy at birth (yearn) -_AAverage number.of years of life                       as percentage of it.tel lbor force.
remaioiog at birth; unually fiv- year averags   ndirng In 1960, 1970,                Industry Y(percet) - Labor force in mining, ronstruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water end gas as percentage of total labor force.
Ifnevtality_rate (per thousand) - Aenual desthe of infants under                 PaIrticIaio  rate (srcejt) - total, mole,anqd female - Total, male, and
onepea  ofage perthousandlive hirh,ts.)                                          'emal  lbor foc   spercentages of their respective populations
Acces  osf   ae  ooet of           pouain           oa,urban, ed rural. -                  These%re 11.f0's adjusted participation tarte  reflectingae-e
Number of people itotai, urban, and rural) witb reasonable access. to                   etrrc.ror  of the population, and Imet time trend.
safe cater supply (Includes treated surface waters or untreated hut                  fCn..oeIC d.oenderyrai  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over tu
uncontanloaced, watersuch as that.fro .psotctad boreholee, sprIngs,                    the loabr force Ie age group ef 15-64 years.
and sanItarYwell) pas prst.g.  oof their respective populations
II an orban areas .Public fountarin or stan.dpoat located not more                  INCOME DISTRIIUTIO94
than 200 meters from a house may ho.. rosdered,as being within te-                   Psnotg  o   riaeincome (both in cah and bind) received by richest 
nonabl   ccess ofthat houe.  It P ralara  reanble accesswould                  PIerrnt   richent 70 percet, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
Impi  tatthehos  isr nenhrP fIthe house.hold donthvhoo   osholda
spend a dispro P,otioocte Partof the day in fetchIngthe fasily't
wateIrneeds.                                   .POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
rural - Number of PeoPle (total, urban, and rural) served by secrete                      Absolute po-ety income level is that incose level below which a  iaisimal
dispsa  as, pecnaePfthI   epciepopularioos                       orroto:                nutrltiosll  adequate diet plus escontial non-food requiremen.ts is sot
rea trot, of hura  excrete so   at-wtrbEttrbresytm                                itimacedt reaien-t   noelee                     $pe   aia   orban end rural-
ur the os of,pit p,itlon end sImila  inetailati-a.                                  (Relative  poverty inc.s. level Itm thatnn.m. leve  las. hs.             uethr
PPoultu ta pe        ftriclo     optnrdroIdod by ..usber of pr-cticit                       e  cpt   nrv,   icc_o  0roh  u_sc
physica.o qualtifid Icon a edi.1do   school at unIversity level.                     Estimatedp ltlvblw puetyicoeleet(ecet-uboan end rural -
Pop-ula-tion pernrsn  perso   - Population djvidsdtby.number of                            Percet sofP population (urban and rural)  hoh  armemither  absouepovo
pr_tuira nub  an%.d female graduate nre,pre  ctia  nurses,. sod                         'osl.ttv- poor  'hich-vr Isgroat-r
Eco..osic and Social Sets Division
Etr.v.sIC Analysto end Projectf... Departmen



-29-                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                          MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       %                    1961-66 1/        1967-74 1/       1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices              13,600       100.0                      5.4              3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment          3,590        26.4                     10.7              5.4             24.9
Current Account Balance          -1,760         12.9
Export of Goods, NFS               3,530        26.0                      4.3              6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS               6,490        47.7                     8.8               9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force 3/            V. A. Per Worker
US$ Min.       %                Mln.     %                 US $          .
Agriculture                        3,350        28.7              4.135   41.1                 810        15.7
Industry 4/                        3,460        29.6              1.902   18.9                1820       35.4
Distributive Sector                2,340        20.0              1.560   15.5                1500        29.1
Services                           2,530        21.7              2.472   24.5                1020       19.8
Total/Average             11680/2920      100.0              10,069  100.0               1160       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978        1974         1978
Current Receipts                   5,310           33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure                4,640           34.0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit              670           -0.1          4.9
Capital Expenditures               3,310           13.8         24.3
External Financing (net)           1,140            3.3          8.4
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   1207         1515         1883         2417         3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1852         2338         3527         4123         4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector            102          149          230          251          434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       31.7         36.1         38.5         38.5         43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)   100.0          112.4        119.1        131.4        145.0        157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   10.4         12.4          6.0         10.3         10.3          8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector             9.6         26.2         50.9         16.9         15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10.9         46.1         54.4          9.1         72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 = I LE.
I/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
nnt Annl1ich1P



30                      ~~~~~~~ANiNEX I
-30-                              Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977       1978                                      US$ Mln.   %
(US$ million)
Cotton                       354      19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS            2,194      2,759      3,537      3,530          Yarn and Textiles            364       20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931      -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                    442       24.7
Other Agriculture            224       12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140        -240       -330       -290          All other commodities        405       22.6
Oil Companies
Total               1,789      100.0
Workers' Remittances               366         755       894      1,760
O-- F-.  or Services (Net)       -104       -202       -205       -270
'e  ^.ac-or Services              262         553        689     1,490
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECE4BER 31. 1978
Palance on Current Account   -2,615        -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortization                     -600        -734       -812       -900                                            us$ Mln.
Tot-al Deficit                             -32157   -2,402    -2,660
To~al Deficit  ~  -2,572    ~ i    zL~&.0  Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9,970 1/
Repayments on public debt           900
oirect Foreign Investment         140         300        434       440           Interest on public debt             390
Grants                          1,076         792        445        345
}T.T Borrov.ing                 2509                   3,027      2585
3,725      2,714  -3 SQ6         3,370
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR lq78 2/  23.7%
Cther Capital -Net)              -152         236       *-961      -495
Residual                         -420        -333       -348      -145
increase in Reserves f+)          -62          45        195         71
Gross Reserves fend year)          294         339       534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Tmports
of -hich: Petroleum         -477        -385       -250       -200
Eyports
of which: Petroleum           164        268.       600        730
1/ $10,590 million as of July 31, 1979.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services,
February 4, 1980



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
TF,E STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit         Approved                                                                       less cancellations
Numbers              FY        Borrower         Purpose                                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR             60           SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                     56.5      --          -
Cr 181-UAR             70          UAR            Nile Delta Drainage                       --    26.0          1.9
Cr 284-UAR             72          ARE            Railways I                                --    30.0          0.8
Cr 393-UAR             73           ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                      --    36.0          4.0
Cr 412-UAR             73          ARE            Development Industrial Bank 1/            --    15.0          0.3
Cr 423-UAR             74          ARE            Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --    18.5          3.5
Cr 437-UAR             74          ARE            Population                                --      5.0         0.1
Cr 484-UAR             74          ARE            Talkha Fertilizer                         --    20.0          0.4
Cr 524-EGT             75          ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                            --    35.0          0.3
Ln 1062-ECT            75          ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                           35.0      --         1.2
Ln 1064-ECT            75           SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation                50.0      --        21.7
Ln 1085-EGT            75           ARE           Tourah Cement                            40.0      --         4.0
Ln 1098-EGT            75           ER            Railways II                              37.0      --        10.4
Cr 548-EGT             75           ARE           Telecommunications                        --    30.0          3.1
Cr 576-ECT             76           ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0               0.5
Ln 1239-EGT            76           APA           Alexandria Port                          45.0      --        32.7
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/       76           ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                 50.0      --        42.3
Cr 637-EGT             76          ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --    40.0         23.1
Ln 1285-EGT            76           ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  10.0      --        10.0
Ln 1292-ERT            76           ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                   52.0      --        34.8
Ln 1369-EGT            77          AWA            Alexandria Water Supply                  56.0      --        45.2
Cr 681-EGT             77          ARE            Education                                 --    25.0          5.8
Cr 719-EGT             77           ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    --    27.0         13.9
Ln 1439_ ET            77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                   27.0      --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-ERT 2/       77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                   12.0      --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT            77           EEA           Regional Electrification                 48.0      --        28.6
Ln 1456-ERT            77          ARE            Industrial Imports                       70.0      _-        38.0
Ln S-005-ErT           77          ARE            Iron Ore Beneficiation and                2.5      __         1.1
Engineering
Ln 1482-ERT            78           SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                    100.0      --        41.4
Cr 1-20-EGT            78           ARE           Water Supply Engineering                  --      2.0         0.2
Cr 774-EGT             78           ARE           Telecommunications II                     --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-EGT            78           DIB           Development Industrial Bank III          40.0      --        28.0
Cr 830-ECT             78          ARE            Agricultural Development                  --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EGT             78          ARE            Urban Development                         --    14.0         13.7
Cr 850-EGT             79          ARE            Second Population                         --    25.0         24.9
Cr 868-EGT             79          ARE            Second Education                          --    40.0         38.7
Ln S-14-EGT            79           ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering         11.0      --         4.3
and Technical Assistance
Cr 909-ERT             79           ARE           Tourism                                   --    32.5         32.5
Ln 1732-EGT            79           ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                         75.0      --        75.0
Cr 935-ERT             79          ARE            Shoubrah El Kheima                               37.0        37.0
Thermal Power
ln 1733-EGT            79           EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima                      102.0      --       102.0
Thermal Power 4/
80          ARE           Agroindustries  3 /                       --    45.0         45.0
80          DIB           DIB  3/                                  50.0      --        50.0
80          ARE            Textiles  3/                            69.0      --        69.0
Totals                                                                                  1038.0  613.0        1013.4
Of which has been repaid                                                                   58,5
Total now outstanding                                                                    979
Amount sold                                                               7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                  7.4               0.1
Total now held by Rank and IDA                                                           979.4  613.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in USS million)
Year           Obligor                         ype o  Business                       Loan           Equity       Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company          Ceramic Industry                        4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company          Ready-Made Garment Industry            0.40            0.20         0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company           Agricultural Production,               20.0             2.00        22.00
mainly sugar              (Plus 1.0 standby comsitment)          (23.00)
1979           Ismailia Misr Poultry         Food and Food Processing                5.97            1.52         7.49
Company
1979           Ismailia Fish Farming          Food and Food Processing               1.929            .453        2.382
Company                                              (Plus 0.1 contingency comsitment)   (2.482)
32.549           4.923       37.472
(Plus contingency comsitment)          (39.207)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet signed
4/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0



ANNEX II
-32-                           Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 9 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. Progress on this activity is slow due inai:H,,
to management problems with public sector contracting companies. Work is
complete on other major components including some 1,700 km surface drains and
eleven pumping stations. The Drainage Authority expects to achieve full
completion of the project ending December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items which is 95 percent complete, has been at a
standstill for the last two years due to difficulties with municipal authori-
ties regarding site occupation. Successive extensions of the loan period have
been necessary. ER has been informed that no further extensions will be
agreed beyond the present closing date. The disbursement total is likely
to be US$29 million.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Work is almost complete on some 1,640 km surface drains in 300,000
feddan project area. Of the five pumping stations, one is operational and
work on the others is about 82 percent complete. Installation of tile drains
is about 61 percent complete. Progress on this activity is slow because of
inadequate management by contractors and physical difficulties arising from
sugarcane which occupies in the cropping pattern some 50 percent of the area.
Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled. Progress on procurement
is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in 1982. The remainder of the full project is being financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development. The foreign cost estimates for the project
have remained basically unchanged, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to delays caused by shortage of local funds.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Project is nearing mechanical completion; procurement has been
completed. According to the latest indication, the project is expected to be
commissioned by mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of
delays in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.3 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively.   The Government will utilize the uncommitted funds
for a portion of the funds necessary for engineering services for the
proposed Pulp and Paper project.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has f.urther delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million L6an of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is also behind
schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock maintenance
with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate companies with
overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions. The 1980-84 draft
investment program contains many large investments including new lines for
which no economic justification has been demonstrated. The financial situation
is poor and a deficit of LE 38 million was forecast for 1979. After many
years without tariff increases, substantial increases in freight tariffs were
made in 1979, and passenger fare increases are promised for 1980.  A draft
decree which would establish a National Railway authority and aims to give the
railways inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and
staff salaries is under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date:  August 14, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecoumunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been dis-
bursed as of April 2, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their-respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on some
1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is about
55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans, field drainage
is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall has resulted from a
delay of almost two years with supply and erection of USAID financed equipment
for three PVC pipe-making factories. As these factories are now nearing
production, the work of installing tile drains will be accelerated. Contracts
for the same have already been awarded covering the entire project area.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date:. June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
Miarch 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After a second round of bidding for construction of the pipelines,
borrower decided to reject all bids as being out of line with prices obtainable
from local contractors for similar work, and informed the Bank 'hat it wished
to execute this comnponent with local contractors using Egyptian funds.
Accordingly it requested cancellation of that part of the loan. The Bank has
thus cancelled US$2.85 million. The construction contract for the treatment
plant extensio'ns is currently out to bid.  Proposals for data processing
equiptentlt and training have been called for.  Meter replacement to improve



ANNEX II
-36-                           Page 6 of 8
AWA's operatic-s continues at a satisfactory pace.  An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical assis-
tance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been procured
and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed
17 are completed and are operational, 5 will be completed by August and ihe
other by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being re-equipped
are operational. About 77 percent of Credit amount has been disbursed and
nearly all of the remainder has been committed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; US$27 Million Credit, US$27 Million Loan and US$12 Million Third
Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April .17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion achieved
in some 230,000 feddans out of total area of 815,000 feddans. For construction
of four new and renovation of two existing pumping stations, the contractors
have started preliminary works following award of contracts in December 1979.
Work has not started on installation of field drainage in 400,000 feddans.
Progress on this activity will depend upon KfW financed PVC pipe-making
factory (planing is currently in progress). This factory is expected to be
commissioned more than one year behind appraisal target of December 1979. It
would accordingly delay completion of field drainage, which is critical
to full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study financed
under the Loan has been completed. Consultants for the distribution companies
have been engaged. All contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of February 29, 1980, about $31.4 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.



ANNEX II
-37 -                         Page 7 of 8
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979 and Government comments have been incorporated into the draft report.
Project in Beheira Governorate identified in the report.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
February 29, 1980, $10.8 million had been disbursed and $35.5 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by June
1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by May 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                        Page 8-f 8
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff have been appointed, draft terms of reference for some
advisors and consultants have been agreed and contracts are being finalized.
Preliminary steps on the design of physical works have been started. Completion
of the project is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date:  May 1, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. Recruitment of project personnel shows progress,
but is not complete.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date:  July 18, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31,
1984.
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the twenty three
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed by
mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE institutes are
expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. Eighty four percent of all
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for 23 percent.
All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation is underway.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule, a situation which is expected to
continue.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and erec-
tion has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock are being
carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract was
signed on March 23, 1980.  Construction completion is scheduled.for 19 months
after receipt of a 10 percent downpayment due within 30 days after signing.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
EL Kh ima Thloernial llower Project of Sepelmnber 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; C10sing Dat e: Juntle 30, 1966.
Agreements declared effective on April 8, 1980.



- 39 -                             ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                Nine Months
(b)  Date of first presentation to IDA:            January 1978
(c)  Agency preparing project:                     Petrogas
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   October 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           April 1, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                October 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Operation of gas field to ensure availability of gas during project life
(para. 48).
2.   Government obligation to (i) assume financing of internal carcassing of
apartments and conversion of appliances of existing household and (ii)
issue a decree providing for builders of new housing to arrange for
carcassing and conversion (para. 50).
3.   Tariff provisions (para. 65).



-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~>                                                        WAB                                                                          -                                         1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /U   e                         It X    r r r  rz    a v  )Sea                                                   
MATRUH                                                                           Ab,
KA                                              T        MMANSURA
RCN    A-f-                                                                                                                                                  3  NH
/ (-                           \NI                   >' h4i'  ACAIRO
30'                     'I                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°   '- \   t
0                                                                                                                    Y p 'FtVV.y1 /  }  T TAAN
z^                       I v              3SW AB~~~~~~~~~~±U _GHARADl   . ._ _ . ___2 ._ _ _ _ ._ _ _ .                   __ . . .Wr ...  .t .-                                   
(   Abu Gbo,.dr ,2                                                                                                _t_4            j 
294    <  > - ,r,   ,- >, -  ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                     /                                            31zz     -    '\                       29
'.1  tt, --'-'   ,, ,'                 REFINERIES AND OIL AND GAS PIPELINES/                                                                                                          . 
t  _  ) ~~ 77' Ns t                                                          \            \            2"" .                  >g
EL _ ieWal * tE e J / 55YIRA    4--                        PR PCSED GAS PIPELINES f I EIEIS/>\,
LR7[                                        EXISIING  O/l  PIPELINES          SUEZ   CAONA
1 13YA    >   .  s SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                                                                h- 0   [L  6  9''
'BY                                                                                                                                            0      10      60;    90 a     b      XL M I32'0\                                  <
ARAB   REIUBUO   U                                U       GALAD                                                                                    ETERS<
5'F  AEGUPT
20' CHAD  \   j    S U IDU AN
2p .      f          s3.            <z  s          26'                             29'                            3p-                           31-                             3g-                           b3-               v          <  



