OFFMAL jj
DOCUMEINTS CREDIT NUMBER 1024 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Cairo Gas Distribution Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1024 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        J   AA               , 1980, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of a portion of the foreign exchange
cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Petroleum Gas
Company (hereinafter called Petrogas) with the assistance of the
Borrower and the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (herein-
after called EGPC) and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will relend to Petrogas the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the ::oregoing  to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditicas hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, EGPC and
Petrogas;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, EGPC and Petrogas of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into among the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the proceeds
of the Credit to be relent to Petrogas by the Borrower under such
agreement, as provided in such Section.
(c) "LPG" means liquified petroleum gas.
(d) "Project Area" means the area described in the preamble
of Schedule 2 hereto.
(e) "Decree No. 118" means the Borrower's decree No. 118 of
1978 establishing Petrogas and governing Petrogas operations,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
(f) "Law No. 20" means the Borrower's law No. 20 of 1976
establishing EGPC and governing EGPC operations, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(g) "LE" and "Egyptian Pound" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
(h) "Mcf" means one thousand standard cubic feet.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so


﻿-3-
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower confirms to the Association
that Petrogas has awarded the contract dated November 22, 1979 for
all the goods and works for Parts A and B of the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
(b) Should such contract be suspended or terminated and, as
a result thereof, the invitation of new bids for such goods and
works be necessary, the procurement of such goods and works shall,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall piomptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending
January 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on July 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿Section 2.09. Petrogas is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Wichout any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EGPC and Petrogas to perform
in qccordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all their respective obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable EGPC and Petrogas to perform such obliga-
tions (including the obligations set out in Section 4.06 of the
Project Agreement), and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with EGPC, provide
Petrogas with: (i) all funds, facilities, services and other
resources necessary for the carrying out of the Project until
the completitor thereof; and (ii) all funds (in addition to
t'se for the carrying out of the Project) necessary to enable
Petrogas: (A) to carry on its expansion; and (B) without any
limitation upon the gcneralitv of the foregoing, to at all times
meet its debt service requirements relating to its natural gas
operations and maintain an adequate working capital for such
operations.
(c) For purposes of the foregoing paragraph the terms "debt
service requirements" and "working capital" shall have the mean-
ings set out in Section 2.10 (b) of the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
Petrogas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
among the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall
include the following:
(i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
repayable by Petrogas shall be the equivalent in


﻿- 5 -
Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date, or the
respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit
Account;
(ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by Petrogas in
thirty equal or approximately equal semi-annual
installments over twenty years (including five
years of grace); and
(iii) the Borrower shall charge Petrogas interest at
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%)
per annum on the outstanding balance of the Sub-
sidiary Loan in addition to any charges payable by
the Borrower to the Association on the Credit.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association :nd to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1981
(or such other date as the Association may agree), carry out, or
cause to be carried out, a study to review the economic viability
of (i) rehabilitating and converting the existing gas distribution
network in central Cairo from gas produced from naphta to natural
gas and (ii) linking said network with the gas distribution
network included in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, promptly upon completion of said
study, exchange views with the Association on the findings thereof
and shall, upon completion of such exchange of views, take, or
cause to be taken, appropriate action to implement such recommen-
dations emanating from such study, as shall be mutually acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980 (or
such other date as the Association may agree), issue a decree
providing that: (i) all buildings to be constructed in the Project


﻿-6-
Area shall thereafter be fitted with appropriate internal car-
cassing and external piping up to the periphery of the property
line of such building and (ii) such fitting shall be executed
under the supervision of Petrogas.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, in a timely fashion for the
carrying out of Part C of the Project, finance in conjunction with
EGPC the cost of the internal carcassing of the approximately
160,000 existing dwellings of the Project Area and the conversion
of approximately 300,000 related appliances, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) EGPC or Petrogas shall have failed to perform any of
their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EGPC or Petrogas will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Decree No. 118 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of Petrogas to carry out its cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EGPC or Petrogas, or for the suspension of their respec-
tive operations.
(e) Law No. 20 shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of EGPC to carry out its covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
(f) The decree to be issued pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.03 hereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. Tle following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Petrogas and EGPC, and is legally binding upon
Petrogas and EGPC in accordance with its terms; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas and is legally
binding upon the Borrower, EGPC and Petrogas in accordance with
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date NOlV4k    r     J9   is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for
economy and economic cooperation, or the under secretary of
state of the Borrower responsible for economic organizations and
international finance, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND                 348 GAFEC
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By                   ~J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By)
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Goods and works               43,000,000      100% of foreign
for Parts A and                               expenditures
B of the Project
(2) Services for Tech-
nical Assistance              4,000,000       100%
(3) Unallocated                    3,000,000
TOTAL        50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 11 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after November 22, 1979.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such "ategory -.ay continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at (i) creating a gas distribution network
for domestic gas consumers in the four districts of Cairo of
Helwan, Maadi, Nasr City and Heliopolis and (ii) supplying
natural gas to the power stations at Nasr City and Heliopolis.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:  Transmission System
(a) Construction of approximately 55 km of 24" buried
steel pipeline from an existing installation near Mrazik Bridge to
a proposed power station at Heliopolis, together with the neces-
sary system for cathodic protection.
(b) Installation of an inlet, and construction of an odori-
zing unit, near Mrazik Bridge.
(c) Construction of four pressure reduction stations at
Helwan, Maadi, Nasr City and Heliopolis, with offtake from the
main line, each of such stations consisting basically of three
separate preassembled skid mounted units for filtration, pressure
reduction, and metering, with connecting manifolds.
(d) Installation of an offtake for the proposed power sta-
tions at Nasr City and Heliopolis, with a terminal at Heliopolis.
(e) Installation of a pigging system complete with pig
traps, launchers, and receiving stations.
Part B:  Distribution System
(a) Installation of a distribution network of medium density
polyethylene pipe of approximately 900 km in length in the Project
Area.
(b) Provision of approximately 9,000 services for connecting
customers in the Project Area with gas at an average rate of
one service for approximately 18 customers.
Part C:   Carcassing and Conversion
(a) Installation of outlet service pipes from ten feet
outside the dwellings in the Project Area to the gas meters,


﻿- 13 -
together with service risers, laterals and other related pieces of
equipment.
(b) Internal installation of pipes in approximately 160,000
dwellings to function at a pressure not exceeding 30 millibars,
pipe ducts, control cocks, and other related pieces of equipment.
(c) Conversion to natural gas of approximately 300,000
existing appliances burning LPG.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
(a) Detailed assessment of the overall training requirements
of Petrogas personnel in various aspects of construction, mainte-
nance and operation of a gas utility, through the provision of
an adequate number of man-months of consultants' services.
(b) Assistance to Petrogas for (i) the designing and
supervision of the construction of the Project, (ii) the prepara-
tion of a draft code of supervisory and safety tests necessary for
the operation of the facilities included in the Project, and (iii)
(A) the designing and the implementation of a management informa-
tion system appropriate to enable Petrogas to inter alia establish
and maintain separate accounts for its natural gas operations, (B)
the improvement of its financial management and cost accounting
and cost control system in accordance with the recommendations on
the subject to be made by EGPC as a result of the on-going review
included in Part 9 of the Project described in the Loan Agreement
dated June 29, 1979 between the Bank and EGPC (Loan No. 1732 EGT)
and carried out by EGPC in consultation with Petrogas, and (C) the
review of the internal control required for its overall opera-
tions, all through the provision of about an adequate number of
man-months of consultants' services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
FOR SECRETARY


