                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 26068

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (CPL-38330; SCL-3833A; SCPD-3833S; TF-21409)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 120 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                             FOR A

                                THIRD ROAD SECTOR PROJECT




                                           June 27, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit, LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                   Currency Unit = Chilean Peso CLP
                     743.8 CLP = US$ 1
                      US$ 0013 = 1 CLP



                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1    June 30




             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


     DV             Dirección de Vialidad (Highway Directorate)
     BOT            Build-Operate-Transfer
     CONAMA         Comisión Nacional del Medio Ambiente (National
                    Environmental Commission)
     MOF            Ministry of Finance
     MOP            Ministry of Public Works
     PSR            Project Supervision Report
     SEMAT          Secretaria Ejecutiva del Medio Ambiente (Environmental
                    Secretariat)
     UDT            Territorial Development Unit
     UMA            Unidad Ambiental (Environmental Unit) in DV




                 Vice President:     David de Ferranti
               Country Director:     Axel van Trotsenburg
                Sector Director:     Danny Leipziger
Sector Leader/Task Team Leader:      Juan Gaviria

                                            CHILE
                                      THIRD RD SCTR


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P006661                                                      Project Name: THIRD RD SCTR
Team Leader: Juan Gaviria                                                TL Unit: LCSFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 29, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: THIRD RD SCTR                                            L/C/TF Number: CPL-38330; SCL-3833A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3833S; TF-21409
   Country/Department: CHILE                                                              Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (100%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P); Regional integration (S); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (S); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/11/1991                                        Effective: 10/02/1995
   Appraisal:    12/01/1992                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/22/1994                                         Closing: 06/30/1999               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MIN PUB WORKS (MOP)/HIGHWAY DIRECTORATE ("Direccion de
                                           Vialidad")
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Husein
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Govind Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Alfonso Sanchez
Team Leader at ICR:             Juan Gaviria                                   Kazuko Uchimura
ICR Primary Author:             Sergio Miquel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to further support a successful program, started earlier with
Bank financing, aimed at modernizing and strengthening road sector policies and administration as
a foundation for the market-oriented economic policies being adopted by the Government . This
management-targeted cycle started in 1983 with the Second Highway Reconstruction Project,
Loan 2297-CH and continued in 1985 and 1989 under the First and Second Road Sector Projects,
Loans 2589-Ch and 3120-CH. It was instrumental in introducing long term financial planning in
the road sector, achieving rehabilitation of the deteriorated road network, strengthening sound
road maintenance and pavement management, and fostering transfer of responsibilities from the
public to the private sector. As a result of its macroeconomic policy to replace foreign financing
by local financing, the Government requested the Bank in 1994 to reduce further financial
assistance to support only targeted priorities of state-of-the-arts components.

Accordingly, the specific project objectives were: (a) to consolidate the road maintenance and
pavement management program financed under the First and Second Road Sector Projects; (b) to
support the Government's privatization efforts in the road sector through (i) the use of "global"
maintenance contracts and (ii) promotion of Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) schemes for private
sector financing of road and road-related investments; (c) to improve road traffic safety on the
national network; and (d) to strengthen MOP's environmental impact assessment and monitoring
capacity in the road sector.

These objectives reflected clear and realistic agreements reached between the Borrower and the
Bank to continue supporting essential priorities for road development in Chile, while substantially
reducing the Bank's participation in the financing of the related investments. The objectives were
broad, to allow flexibility in response to changing demands and opportunities and they were well
adjusted to the implementing agency's structure and capacity. In addition, the SAR analyzed in
detail the approaches to be followed to attain these objectives, which were in line with the
Government's macroeconomic policy supported by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, to
foster economic development and the export capacity of the country, and to increase the
efficiency in the delivery of public service

3.2 Revised Objective:
The above objectives remained unchanged for the project implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:
As a Road Sector Project, this project comprised all Ministry of Public Works (MOP's) road
sector expenditures 1995-1998 (base cost US$1,939.5 million), arranged in three major
components: Investments (US$787.7 million), Maintenance (US$1,017.7 million) and
Administration (US$13.5 million). The budgetary allocations to these three components, 40.6%,
52.5% and 6.9% respectively show clearly the excellent Financial Planning capacity already
achieved by the Highway Directorate, Dirección de Vialidad (D.V.) under previous Bank projects.

Each of the above mentioned components comprised several sub-components, of which only
selected investment and maintenance sub-components were to be co-financed under the Loan of
US$120 million, representing 6% of total project cost. To avoid dealing with the great number of


                                                 - 2 -

sub-components to be financed exclusively by the Borrower, the SAR analyzed in detail only
sub-components to be co-financed by the Bank, grouped and costed according to the achievement
of the specific project objectives.

Maintenance sub-components (US$187.9 million) including: (a) civil works "Global Contracts"
for execution of periodic and routine maintenance of specific road networks (US$166.0 million);
(b) procurement of specialized maintenance equipment (US$4.3 million); (c) procurement of state
of the art equipment (US$13.8 million) for upgrading the operation of tunnels, as well as
weighing and toll stations; and (d) consulting services (US$3.8 million) for: (i) institutionalizing
the existing cost accounting system, (ii) consolidation of the pavement management and of the
geographical information systems introduced under previous loans, and (iii) improvement of the
maintenance contracting system.

Support of BOT Schemes (US$2.5 million), comprising quality control of feasibility and of basic
engineering studies for candidate projects identified by MOP, as well as consultant services
associated with the review of the regulatory framework and the promotion of individual
concession schemes.

Road Safety sub-components (US$66.5 million) including: (a) civil works for (i) construction of
bike paths, pedestrian overpasses, sidewalks, guardrails and barriers, and improvement of
intersections at "black spots" in the national network (US$53.1 million), and (ii) provision and
maintenance of road signs, markings, and lighting (US$11.7 million); (b) procurement of
guardrails, road safety auxiliary and emergency equipment, and computer hardware (US$0.5
million); and (c) consulting services (US$1.2 million) for: (i) selected research on road safety, (ii)
support of the Executive Secretariat of the National Commission on Traffic Safety, and (iii)
establishment of closer working relations with the National Police on specific road safety related
actions and campaigns.

Environmental Impact Assessment and Monitoring (US$0.5 million) comprising consulting
services and training for: (i) improving the guidelines and methodologies for classification and
mitigation of environmental impacts; (ii) strengthening the environmental supervision of road
works and extending it to road operations and to the road concession program; (iii) preparing an
Environmental Data Bank to be linked to the existing Geographical Information System; and (iv)
establishing Task Agreements with other public and private organizations.

Training (US$3.3 million) comprising:       (a) continuation of the national training program
complemented by special courses on modern maintenance techniques, road safety, environmental
impact and BOT schemes (US$2.8 million); and (b) technical and study visits abroad for MOP
managers and professionals (US$0,5 million).

The design of these sub-components to be financed by the Bank was well related to achieving the
objectives of the project, and to the administrative and financial capacity of the implementing
agency. It took particularly into account the lessons learned in the two previous projects,
regarding the importance of improving maintenance efficiency, expanding BOT experiences,
enhancing environment and road safety capabilities and continuing the training program. For



                                               - 3 -

instance, the maintenance component addressed, through the introduction of the Global
Maintenance Contracts, the desire to reduce overheads of maintenance activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of: (i) consistency of objectives between the
program and the Borrower's Four Year Road Sector Program 1995-1998, (ii) design built on experience of
previous road sector projects financed by the World Bank, (iii) the process built on a well established
capacity of the implementing agency, the D.V., and (iv) project design addressed key risks and
opportunities. The formulation of the Project provided continuity to a long term assistance to the Highway
Agency which at appraisal had reached maturity but still needed support in the design of a new model of
maintenance contract and greater support of particular aspects of modern road management (e.g., selected
advanced technology sub-components).        The SAR documented the project and its background well,
incorporating a comprehensive set of measurable performance indicators which would allow a good
monitoring of output (at a time when few projects were introducing such concept). The project was
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Chile.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objective of strengthening road sector policies and administration was successfully
achieved, due to the firm commitment of the Government to continue and improve road sector
policies initiated in the 1980's, with Bank assistance. During implementation of this project the
Government succeeded for the first time in increasing budget allocations for the road sector to a
level compatible with the optimum standards recommended by the long term planning tool
supported by the HDM-3 model. In the 1980's such allocations were about US$200 million per
year and increased during the period 1990-1994, under the Second Road Sector Project, to an
annual average of US$269 million. In an effort to satisfy growing demands from an expanded
infrastructure network and taking advantage of the prevailing economic boom, the Government
increased, under this project, budget allocations for the road sector to an annual average of
US$655 million between 1995-1998. However, following budgetary constraints after 1999 the
Government decreased the budget to a lower level of US$493 per year. The overall increase in
road sector funding was justified due to increased demands (still below the overall road network
requirements) and its use has consistently been prioritized using modern tools including the HDM
model which is now internalized in road sector administration in Chile.

The D.V. maintained a good track record of resource administration, and complied regularly with
the highly demanding "Administrative Efficiency Indicators" which were developed during the
previous project and included as performance indicators during negotiations.                    The Table
"Outcome/Impact Indicators" included in Annex 1 shows satisfactory compliance with these
indicators and the fact that some of them were substantially surpassed during the first four years
of project implementation. As explained in Section 5.2 below, the level of the indicators and in
some cases the compliance with specific indicators decreased during 2000-2001. Nevertheless,
the overall compliance over the project period remained satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                   - 4 -

The specific objectives of the project were achieved, as shown in the following analysis regarding
the outcome of the corresponding components. The outputs contributed substantially to the
overall strengthening of D.V.      Overall the execution by D.V. of its annual programs was
satisfactory during the project period as documented in the Table "Output Indicators" of Annex 1,
which shows that D.V. complied satisfactorily, or even surpassed, the investment and maintenance
targets agreed at negotiations. The few exceptions, i.e., road widening from two to four lanes,
overlays and rehabilitation of paved roads, and construction of bike pathways, resulted from the
fact that some of the proposed works became unnecessary; for instance some roads that had been
originally included in the program were added to the BOT program.

Maintenance sub-components. The implementation of this group of sub-components is rated
highly satisfactory and contributed fundamentally to the strengthening and modernizing of D.V.'s
road maintenance policies and practices, as well as to the privatization efforts in the road sector.

The "Global Contracts" maintenance system for discrete road networks, which introduced
two-year unit cost contracts, were successfully implemented and broadly disseminated. The
number of contracts, as well as the length of roads maintained under this system, surpassed the
targets agreed at negotiations, combined with an increase in expenditures which was less than
anticipated. The program reached its peak in 2000 with 65 ongoing contracts and expenditures
amounting to US$52.8 million. Due to budgetary constraints, the program was reduced in 2002
to 62 contracts and US$45,5 million expenditures but covers well the priority non-concessioned
road network in the country. About 40% of all road maintenance activities is now carried out at
reasonable costs under this system, which is praised for its efficiency by the municipal authorities
and the beneficiary population. This program contributed significantly to the establishment and
strengthening of more than 30 mid-size local road maintenance contractors in the Regions.

Purchase of specialized maintenance equipment and of state-of-the-art equipment for special
purposes was carried out under successive purchasing programs totaling about US$ 40.0 million,
financed by the Borrower without resort to loan funding. These purchases included: snow
clearing, shrub and grass mowing, and patching equipment, as well as equipment for upgrading of
weighing and toll stations foreseen in the SAR, but not the tunnel ventilation and traffic control
equipment because the main existing tunnels were included in BOT projects transferred to the
private sector. The extraordinary impact of this equipment renewal program is best illustrated by
the success of the vehicle weighing program, which included: upgrading of 12 stationary scales
installed in 1982, acquisition of 11 additional stationary scales and purchase of 30 modern
portable scales to complement weighing campaigns formerly performed by 10 portable scales
acquired in 1991. As a result, the number of heavy vehicles controlled in stations has increased
from 1.3 million in 1983 to 8.3 million in 2002, and the percentage of overloaded vehicles has
diminished from 18% to 1.9%. Moreover, to avoid penalties and delays, the private sector has
opted to install own scales at cargo originating locations, increasing their number from 23 in 1994
to 247 in 2002.

Through in-house expertise and Borrower financed consulting services, D.V. has succeeded in:
(i) Consolidation of its highly efficient road maintenance system by consistently upgrading its
management tools, such as: a special volume of its Roads Manual dealing with Maintenance; an



                                                - 5 -

additional Road Maintenance Catalog; periodic technical-economic evaluation of the road
network using the HDM model; and consolidation of the Maintenance Information and Control
System (for contracted maintenance, SIM) and of the Maintenance Administration System (for
force account maintenance, SAM).         This last system includes accurate and reliable cost
accounting of force account activities revealing unit costs favorably comparable to those of
contracted maintenance.
(ii) Consolidation of its pavement management system by updating and completing the calibration
of all sub-models of the HDM-III-Ch model for flexible pavements and of the Chilean GIMP
model for rigid pavements, as well as of some sub-models of the HDM-4 model for flexible and
rigid pavements. The 60 some Test Stations originally established in 1984 for this testing program
were partially updated and expanded or replaced, totaling 67 for flexible and 24 for rigid
pavements. Additional studies were undertaken to develop updated Chilean HDM-III sub-models
for aggregate loss and road roughness for gravel roads. Moreover, the 2002 technical-economic
evaluation of the National Road Network was performed using both, the old HDM-III model and
the new HDM-4 model, for comparison purposes. Finally, during project implementation D.V.
organized a great number of national and international meetings and courses on pavement
management, lately particularly related to the application of the HDM-4 model. The latest
three-month course on evaluation of road investments using the HDM-4 model has been offered
by video-conferences to Chilean engineers assembled in locations throughout the country.
(iii) Upgrading of its Geographical Information System (SIG) by establishing a country-wide
geodesic support network linked to the one of the Military Geographic Institute, collecting all
necessary information on the road network, as well as related environment and natural risks
information, preparation of model cartographic and thematic documents, development of the
required software, training of D.V. personnel in the Regions and initiation of production of final
programs and documents. A fruitful working cross-relation has been established with other MOP
Directorates and Ministries, as well as with other public and private entities or services.
(iv) Expansion of the successful "global contracts" concept, by developing and implementing
successfully two five-years output-based maintenance contracts for larger road networks "by
performance standards". However, further expansion of this system was prevented by the high
level of expenditures required coupled with the budgetary constraints imposed since 1999. An
assessment was made of updated experience with global contracts as well as with the pilot
performance standards contracts.        Furthermore, an additional public-private system for
concessioning the maintenance of main roads with low traffic volume is under study.

Support of BOT schemes. During the project period Chile implemented a wide-ranging and well
regarded program of BOT projects. During project design a number of supporting activities to
the BOT program were included for possible Bank financing including quality control of feasibility
studies, basic engineering, review of the regulatory framework and promotion of the BOT
program. These activities were carried out by the Government but were all financed by the
Borrower. Implementation of the roads concession program was somewhat slower than the
originally envisioned program due to: the ambitious nature of the program, important delays in
the preparation of complex basic engineering particularly for urban roads; increases of the original
cost estimates common in these programs; changes in the regulatory framework; and consequent
delays in the tendering process of the more complex projects. Targets foreseen for the original
project period 1995-1998 were partially met. Of the 21 road concession projects expected to be



                                                - 6 -

awarded by the end of 1998, only 13 were actually awarded, representing an investment of
U$3,070 billion instead of US$2,116 billion originally estimated.. By the end of the actual project
implementation period, 2002, the corresponding figures were 21 road projects representing an
investment of US$4,790 million which increased significantly the resources allocated to the
sector, more than any other country in the region. Overall execution of the road concession
program can be rated satisfactory, specially considering that the system was extended to other
infrastructure sectors, comprising 9 airports, 2 prisons and 1 irrigation reservoir with a total
investment of US$400 million.

Road safety subcomponents. The implementation of this group of subcomponents is rated
satisfactory since it contributed, coupled with the road concession program, to improve road
traffic safety of the national network. While the country's motorization rate increased from 10.2
vehicles per hundred persons in 1992 to 12.7 in 1996 and 13.0 in 2002, the general road fatality
index (deaths per 100,000 persons) increased from 12.7 in 1992 to 13.4 in 1996, but decreased
notably to 10.0 in 2002. An important part of this decrease was due to the strong reduction of
traffic accidents and deaths achieved on interurban roads: the number of accidents on interurban
roads decreased from 7,083 in 1996 to 4,972 in 2002 and the number of deaths, from 1,059 to
862. (Reliable segregated information for urban and interurban roads became available in 1996,
during project implementation). Only 56% of the bike paths sub-component was carried out
during project implementation, because the bike traffic along main roads sections later included in
road concession schemes, was taken over by low speed lateral roads constructed as integral part
of the concessions. All other works subcomponents including construction of vehicular and
pedestrian overpasses, improvement of at grade intersections, and provision and maintenance of
guardrails, road signs and markings, and lightning equipment, were successfully carried out,
mostly under Borrower's financing. Most of the targets set at negotiations were amply surpassed.
Provision of road safety auxiliary and emergency equipment has become a standard requirement
for all road concessions and is satisfying the needs on all main roads.

Close collaboration between the National Commission on Traffic Safety, the National Police and
D.V. and the joint introduction of new statistical procedures and software have permitted the
upgrading of the traffic safety information system providing adequate segregation and prompt
availability of information.

Environmental impact assessment and monitoring.                   Up to the year 2000 D.V.'s
Environmental Unit ("Unidad del Medio Ambiente", UMA) continued expanding and
consolidating its environmental assessment and monitoring capacity, in close collaboration with
MOP's Environmental Unit (UTMA) and with the National Environmental Commission
(CONAMA). UMA's activities involved particularly: (i) improving guidelines and methodologies
for classification and mitigation of environmental impacts; (ii) preparation of an Environmental
Data Bank linked to GIS management; (iii) monitoring EIA studies and environmental supervision
of civil works execution; (iv) preparing and supervising special EIA studies for high risk projects;
(v) upgrading the capacity of its members and guiding environmental courses to D.V. personnel at
headquarters and in the Regions; and (vi) expanding its collaboration with the special
environmental unit for BOT projects.




                                                 - 7 -

In the D.V. a reorganization initiated in mid-2000 incorporated UMA into a new Territorial
Development Unit (UDT), which includes also the GIS management, all matters related to
territorial issues, risk assessments and citizen's participation. UDT is now consolidating all
UMA's previous efforts with strong linkage to other territorial issues and to the implementation
of GIS. It is also implementing fundamental environmental studies on three important subjects:
implementation of an environmental management system for D.V. aiming at attainment of ISO
14000 classification; environmental monitoring of civil works; and incorporation of environmental
and territorial aspects and of citizen's participation in the cost structure of environmental projects.
TORs for the studies were prepared in consultation with the Bank and were supposed to be
financed during the last year of Project, but the Borrower allocated own resources to carry out
the work. Contracting of further studies on landscaping of road works, on acoustic protection,
and on protection of archeological sites is underway. UDT has taken several actions to promote
general environmental awareness, particularly, creation of a special web page. On the other side,
the foreseen implementation of an Executive Environmental Secretariat (Secretaría Ejecutiva del
Medio Ambiente, SEMAT) is still underway and its scope is under discussion. The objective to
strengthen MOP's, environmental impact assessment and monitoring capacity is being
satisfactorily achieved by D.V., however its extension at MOP level is still lagging.

Training. This sub-component can be rated as highly satisfactory and was financed entirely by
the Borrower. The performance targets agreed at negotiations were amply exceeded at a much
lower cost than foreseen. At negotiations agreed targets were set up at: 615 courses with 6,400
participants at a cost of US$2.8 million. By the end of the original project period (1998), 645
courses with 5,782 participants had been achieved at a much lower cost of US$1.02 million. The
figures for the end of the extended project period (2002) are: 1,706 courses, 16,668 participants
and cost of US$2,21 million. About 55% of the courses were offered in-house (at headquarters
and in the regional offices) and 45% were contracted with technical institutes and universities,
both in Santiago and in the Regions. About 54% of the participants were professionals and 46%
administrative personnel or workers. These courses covered an ample field of subjects, from
simple labor-intensive works to sophisticated planning, environmental and pavement management
matters. Some of these last courses were offered via the internet simultaneously in Santiago and
the Regions. In addition, D.V. has started application of an internationally approved method to
evaluate efficiency of courses, achieving an average rating of 6.11 within ratings from 1 to 7.

The training abroad component included at appraisal participation in courses, technical seminars
and meetings, as well as conferences on international road links and intermodal transportation.
This was also successfully implemented. Up to December 1998, 309 D.V. professionals had
participated at 179 events with a cost of US$480,000 entirely financed by the Borrower. In the
1999-2002 period, 250 Professionals participated at 159 events with a cost of US$522.000 which
were also financed by the Borrower. The consistent implementation of such training programs for
almost 20 years has been a main factor in the extraordinary institutional development achieved by
D.V.




                                                  - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis to confirm net present values (NPV) and economic rates of return (ERR)
established at appraisal using the Bank's HDM-III-Ch model was carried out by D.V. experts
using the same model and is documented in a January 2002 report on asphalt roads, and a June
2002 report on gravel roads.         The analysis of asphalt roads consisted of the evaluation of
representative road classes taking into account the actual works done during the project period,
current traffic and road condition data, actual investment and maintenance costs, and updated
road user costs. For unpaved roads, the ex-post economic evaluation analyzed two road classes,
which represent two typical policies performed on unpaved roads: (i) upgrading a gravel road to
surface treatment standard, and (ii) maintaining a road in good unpaved condition with proper
maintenance. Both evaluations were reviewed, in the field and in Washington, by a Bank TUDTR
expert and found satisfactory. Results are shown in Annex 3 and allow to infer that the NPV of
the road maintenance component of the project increased from an appraisal estimate of U$1,904
million to U$2,222 million, while the average ERR decreased from above 55% to around 50%.
This lower rate is mainly due to an average 45% decrease of the traffic growth rates estimated in
the SAR, during the second half of the project period. A comparative analysis of asphalt roads by
D.V. employing the modern HDM-4 model yielded only minor variations in user costs and
benefits and confirmed the favorable economic results.

These positive results of the economic confirmation analysis are complemented by satisfactory
improvements in the classification and condition of the road network. Total length of paved roads
increased from 12,526 km in 1995 to 16,057 km in 2001, when the last road inventory was
performed. Length of gravel roads decreased in the same period from 36,056 km to 33,831 km,
and earth roads, from 30,449 km to 29,718 km.           According to the road condition survey
performed in 2001, the percentage of paved roads in good conditions increased from 52% to
61%, in fair conditions from 30% to 34%, while those in poor conditions decreased from 18% to
5%. The percentage of unpaved roads in good conditions increased from 8% to 64%, in fair
conditions from 57% to 63%, and those in poor conditions decreased from 35% to 19%. This
underlines the success of D.V.'s road maintenance program.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Third Road Sector project is part of an important cycle of Bank support for Infrastructure in
Chile. It maintained the standards of previous lending in which the Bank and Government
supported a far-reaching program of investment and institutional development. The main impacts
of this project include: (i) consolidation of D.V.'s transformation into an efficient highway
agency; (ii) expansion of the global maintenance system to cover on average 36% of the road
network; (iii) ensuring that economic criteria are consistently used for decisions on road
investments, and that modern tools are adopted and developed (Chile now is the leader in
implementing the fourth version of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model); (iv) strong
development of private participation in highway construction, maintenance and operation; and (v)
substantial progress on further modernization and strengthening of the Road Agency, as analyzed



                                                 - 9 -

in Section 4.2, including the areas of quality control, environment, traffic safety, weight control,
and pavement management linked to the consolidation of a country-wide geographic information
system adequate for multi-modal applications.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation and outcome were not affected by outside factors from 1995 to 1998,
however since 1999 they were negligibly affected by the changes in global economic conditions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Some factors under government control resulted in a longer than expected project implementation
period. During the first years of the project, the expansion experienced by the Chilean economy
coupled with ample availability of local financing resources induced the Government to consider
reducing foreign debt obligations stemming from project related expenditures. Accordingly, the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) and MOP implemented most project components (in accordance with
the Four Year Program) but decided not to request reimbursement from Loan proceeds for
activities implemented during the first year, and curtailed disbursements during the following
years.   As a result, Loan proceeds were dedicated mainly to finance Global Maintenance
Contracts (under category 1). Therefore, while the project targets and Development Objectives
were being met with an increase in local financing, loan disbursements had a disbursement lag of
50% by the end of 1998.            To allow for continued implementation of the global and pilot
performance based maintenance contracts (a key Project Development Objective), the Bank
granted in January 26, 1999, a two-year extension of the Closing Date until June 30, 2001, with
reallocations of all loan proceeds to category (1), i.e., contracting of road maintenance and road
safety infrastructure works.

With a tighter budgetary environment starting in 1999, the Government curtailed D.V.'s
allocations and reduced its budget by 11% compared, in current terms, to the budget for 1998.
An additional reduction of 6% in current terms was applied to the 2000 budget. This resulted in a
lower than expected level of execution of the global maintenance contracts and road safety works
in 1999 and 2000, and, consequently, in lower disbursements. New MOP and D.V. authorities
decided by mid 2000 to implement a home grown re-engineering process and to request allocating
the remaining loan proceeds from works to finance institutional and training components which
were part of the originally designed project and would support the organizational change which
was in progress. On October 30, 2000, the Bank granted a second extension of the Loan Closing
Date from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002 and reallocation of remaining loan proceeds to
Categories (2), Goods and (3), Services. Despite important efforts to prepare the Terms of
Reference and bidding documents for consulting services and equipment, the Government was not
able to secure in 2001 the explicit budgetary allocations for the new contracts (18). Furthermore,
once the bidding documents were cleared by the Bank the D.V. was faced with additional delays
to obtain the approval of the packages from the Comptroller General. This stalled the initiation of
the institutional strengthening components well into 2002. As a result of these delays, a new
management team in D.V. requested a third and final loan extension to complete the few studies
awarded and to reassign part of the loan proceeds to continue financing the successful global
contracts program. On May 30, 2002 the Bank gave its no-objection to a final six months Closing



                                                     - 10 -

Date extension up to December 31, 2002, to allow the Government implementation of those
consultant services and equipment contracts that had been awarded. Although having pushed so
hard for the extension, the Government did not follow up with complementary action on
procurement and budgeting issues. At closing, it is expected that some US$1.12 million, 0.9% of
the loan proceeds, will remain undisbursed and will be canceled.

An important factor affecting the budgeting process in 2000 was a decision by the MOP
authorities (new Government) to abandon, particularly in the road sector, the traditional policy of
keeping expenditures strictly within budgetary allocation margins, allowing to contract new works
and services for total amounts exceeding the allocations, requesting pre-financing of expenditures
by the firms which were awarded such contracts. This new policy generated initially legal delays
in the awarding process and later a scarcity of financial resources affecting the smooth
implementation of the Road Investment Program. By early 2001 MoF intervened, withholding
fund allocations to MOP and started discussions on ways to revert this situation. In May 2001, an
agreement signed by both Ministers assigned additional funding to MOP to cover its
over-committed obligations, set strict spending limits for the years 2001-2003, and reduced
budgetary projections for 2002 and 2003. Later in 2002, a new MOP Minister resumed the
traditional cautious expenditures policy. As a consequence of the above, the historical compliance
by the Borrower with the "Administrative Efficiency Indicators" agreed at negotiations
deteriorated in 1999 and 2000, exceeding agreed limits as noted in the supervision reports.
Compliance improved in 2001, except for those indicators evaluating cost increases of works
supervision contracts and efficiency of contracting procedures for works as well as for consulting
services, all of which exceeded the agreed margins by more than 100%. The trend, however,
continued in 2002 in some indicators, except for cost increases of ongoing works contracts and
efficiency of contracting procedures for works and for consulting services, which experienced
satisfactory improvements. As shown in Annex 1, overall compliance with the agreed parameters,
was satisfactory during the first four years of project implementation and in general terms
throughout the total project period, but during the latter the performance was less impressive.
Despite this change over time, total compliance is still within satisfactory ranges between 95%
and 122%, except for efficiency of contracting procedures for consulting services reaching only
65% compliance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The outstanding performance of D.V. over the years as an exemplary implementing agency in the
road sector was affected in the last three years of project implementation by frequent management
changes and by an unfinished re-engineering attempt, which contributed substantially to the
problems analyzed in the above paragraph.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The favorable development of the Chilean economy permitted a 26% increase of the original Four
Year Road Program 1995-1998, from US$2,075 million to US$2,617 million, allowing
implementation of a more extended program than originally envisaged.               Macroeconomic
Government policies already discussed induced a much lower disbursement rate of the loan
proceeds, causing a doubling of the project implementation period. Road Investments and
Expenditures 1999-2002 were reduced to US$1,972 million, due to the prevailing worldwide
economic crisis and internal financial and administrative constraints analyzed above. Cost of civil



                                                    - 11 -

works remained within the appraisal estimates, whereas costs of maintenance activities and
operations experimented a sizable reduction because of increased efficiency of contracted as well
as force account operations. Most contracted services and the training program were performed
at much lower cost than originally estimated. Local financing was readily available up to year
2000, and exceeded original expectations, thus displacing and postponing Bank financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Auspicious Government commitment, policy environment, institutional management effectiveness,
economic, technical, financial and environmental viability, consistent research and training
programs, coupled with public awareness of the need for improvement of transport infrastructure
and services, augur likely sustainability of the project's achievements, provided that the recent
flaws detected in MOP's and D.V.'s administration are permanently mastered.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the administrative and operative arrangements and regulations required for efficient
functioning of D.V. had been already in place for many years, however, they were somehow
weakened in the last years of project implementation by frequent management changes,
inadequate MOP financial management practices and a far reaching reorganization that disrupted
well-established internal functional relations and cross-checks without securing adequate
replacement of them. In the mid-term, even in the absence of foreign financing, the project's
achievements and sustainability will be strengthened when D.V. now devotes additional attention
and action to issues related to: (i) re-establishment of efficient functional relations, (ii) fostering
development and effective use of the efficiency and operational indicators, (iii) strengthening road
safety initiatives and equipment deployment and environmental management and training, and (iv)
consolidation of the nation-wide road geographic information system, integrating environment,
road management and road safety.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in this area was satisfactory.          At appraisal the Bank agreed with the
Government's request to scale down the proposed borrowing of US$500 million (joint
IBRD-IDB-JEXIM financing) to a modest US$120 million lending (only Bank financing).
Despite the lower leverage of the finally designed program the Bank continued its broad dialog
with the Borrower on the development of the jointly agreed strategy for the road sub-sector in
Chile. Building on the positive experience gained in previous operations, the Bank effectively
assisted the Borrower in the preparation of all technical, economic and institutional aspects of the
new project. Project appraisal identified all key arrangements needed for successful project
completion. The appraisal mission was staffed with diversified skills appropriate to the task and
improved on the long-standing agreements with the Borrower for satisfactory implementation and
monitoring of the project. The project design was kept simple and flexible despite the large size
of the four-year road program. Comparatively modest Bank funding was targeted to a few key
components. Project risks were correctly assessed as extremely low. The financial package was
adequately arranged, a satisfactory implementation plan was developed and appropriate



                                                  - 12 -

performance indicators agreed. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it can be stated that the
appraisal and negotiating teams failed to assess: (i) the impact that the expansion of the BOT
Program to a greater portion of the road network would have in reducing the scope and amount
of works categories included in the project, such as overlays and rehabilitation of main roads, and
provision of bike paths along them, and (ii) the effect that the continuation of MoF's policy on
reduction of foreign lending would have in slowing the pace of loan disbursements and protracted
extensions of the Loan Closing date.

7.2 Supervision:
The quality of project supervision by the Bank is rated as Marginally Satisfactory. This was an
ambitious sectoral program implemented by a sophisticated Borrower which required a
tailor-made supervision plan and expert resources from a variety of areas.           Nevertheless,
supervision was carried out in a fairly standard format. During the first three years of project
implementation the Bank missions consisted mostly of a single specialist allowing fewer
opportunities to interact in more than one field at a time. The mission's reporting focused on
assessments of the civil works and maintenance program execution and the delays in the
disbursement schedule but did not evaluate in greater depth other program aspects. These reports
did not address issues related to disbursement delays and lags in implementation of the project's
key institutional strengthening programs. Supervision quality improved in the period 1998-2000,
in which a fruitful interchange with the Borrower on institutional strengthening matters and
project design were resumed and several remedial actions implemented. Nonetheless, missions
during this period repeated too much the Borrower's quarterly progress reports and did not
address critical problems such as the over-commitment incurred by MOP in 2000 and the internal
problems in D.V.'s management. Bank supervision efforts improved in October 2000 when the
project's tail end supervision plan was discussed with the D.V. management team, including its
relationship with the overall Country Performance Portfolio Review which took place in
December 2000, initiating a much closer contact with the Borrower. However, productive dialog
on substantial project issues and on ways to foster implementation of remedial actions, was
affected by frequent changes in the management of D.V., which resulted in adjustment periods
while a new understanding was reached of Borrower-Bank relations with the new appointees, and
in delays in implementing agreements reached during the Bank missions. In 2002 the supervision
missions followed the only on-going project component, institutional strengthening studies,
confining supervision efforts to a very active work on 18 terms of reference and procurement
related reviews. The corresponding PSRs were submitted, but no aide-memoires were prepared
since, as the year passed, it became evident that only a few institutional strengthening contracts
had been signed, but not yet approved by the Comptroller General. Only after October 2002 the
Bank received and approved the Government's request to reallocate funds and partially finance
some of the on-going Global Contracts with the loan funds remaining. The last supervision effort
was undertaken through the Aide-memoire of the January 2003 supervision mission. Total staff
input from identification to loan closure (161 staff-weeks) was adequate, considering the
eight-year length of the project implementation period. Given all the above, supervision of the
project is rated marginally satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account the described above Bank performance in lending and supervision, overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.



                                               - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the project by the Borrower was highly satisfactory. Fully committed to the
projects objectives, the Borrower took necessary actions for preparation of all technical, financial,
economic and institutional aspects of the project in an efficient and timely manner.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. Up to the year 2000
the Government remained firmly committed to the project objectives and displayed all necessary
actions for its satisfactory implementation.       Nevertheless, the decision to reduce foreign
borrowing during the earlier years of project implementation resulted in a slower disbursement
profile which then lead to several postponements of the Loan Closing Date. In March 2000 a new
team came to the D.V.. This new team which had been working in the Concessions Coordinating
Agency put in place significant changes in financial and administrative management of the D.V..
The changes in budget and administrative practices resulted in a slow down of implementation of
several Ministry programs including the road maintenance program financed under the project.
The compliance with efficiency indicators during 2000-2001 also suffered with these changes and
are being amended by the team that came to D.V. when new authorities took over in mid-2002.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's overall performance is assessed as satisfactory. During the first five
years of project implementation, D.V. consistently developed in a satisfactory manner its
long-term Road Investment Program and project objectives, fulfilling all its commitments under
the Loan and maintaining a fluent and productive dialog with the Bank. The re-engineering
attempt initiated mid 2000 by the new administration was reviewed and endorsed by Bank
missions. Nevertheless, the reform was launched but not fully implemented. In the ensuing
period there were 5 directors which compounded by a large reduction in budget has weakened the
institution. There is also negative public opinion due to recent scandals affecting MOP. In some
respects, the continuous changes have lessened the very productive dialogue with the Bank which
has been common throughout the project period, as outlined in Section 7.2.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the outstanding performance of the Government and of the Implementing Agency
over the years, the consistent Government commitment to all project objectives, and in
expectation that the new MOP authorities will solve the problems cropped up in the last two
years, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

         The lessons learned from this project pertain primarily to a project designed and executed
in the context of a well developed road sector agency and a sophisticated Borrower.

         Overall. The implementing agency has adopted for sometime the principles of efficient
management, giving attention to proper planning and cost controls in a budget constrained
environment. During the project period the program assisted the agency to carry on effective
short and mid-term planning, employing advanced tools in its planning and implementation. The



                                               - 14 -

     main lesson is that the project sustainability prospects remained high throughout the
     implementation period mainly because it was inserted in a counterpart agency that had adequate,
     reliable and timely financial planning and programming, managed by well trained and dedicated
     staff, and able to participate in the development of the country. If the management and efficiency
     standards were to be weakened because of lessened capabilities, the road agency could be
     threatened as well as its achievements.

             Financing.     Even though the total contribution of the Bank financing was modest
     (compared to the entire program) the association with a sophisticated Borrower allowed to
     introduce a major and very significant change in the administration and efficiency of road
     maintenance. An adequate dialogue allowed to prioritize and develop the Global Maintenance
     Contracts as the predominant tool to maintain the prioritary non-concessioned road network.

             Institutional Development. The fact that a greater emphasis was placed on achieving the
     institutional development objectives of the project during the last 3 years of project
     implementation indicates that maybe this component could have been given more resources during
     supervision early on in the project implementation period.

             The successful development and adoption of modern road management tools (including
     HDM version IV, road safety modelling and GIS) indicate that such tools have a chance to be
     adopted and developed successfully when they build on basic local capabilities that are well
     integrated in the road agency. In this case the 3 units handling these tools are now considered
     regional leaders in the analytics and problem solving at the same level of any OECD country.

             Performance Indicators.            The    early   agreement   on    properly designed  and
     experience-proven outcome and output indicators was useful for the supervision of the project
     and to assess the satisfactory implementation of the Road Investment and Expenditures Program.
     These indicators are replicable elsewhere in the region and could be compared with other public
     works agencies in Chile. Timely reviews allowed to assess the willingness of the implementation
     agency to take corrective measures.

             International Competitive Bidding (ICB). When expressions of interest were requested for
     ICB, there were few companies interested in participating, perhaps dissuaded by the low amount
     set for the thresholds. This would indicate that it may be convenient to increase such threshold for
     future projects. In the end, only Chilean affiliates participated in most bids.

     9. Partner Comments

     (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
These are the main comments extracted from the Borrower's Completion report.

A) Objectives

     The aim of the Project was to consolidate the remarkable progress made in the management of
road maintenance that was achieved by the MOP (Ministry of Public Works) while, at the same time,
introducing additional policies and institutional objectives. The objectives of the project were: (a)
consolidate the road maintenance and pavement management program funded under the First and


                                                      - 15 -

Second Sectorial Road Projects; (b) support the Government's efforts to privatize the road sector
through (i) the use of Global Maintenance Contracts; and (ii) promote BOT schemes (construct,
operate and transfer) with funding by the private sector of roads and road-related investments; (c)
improve traffic safety in the national road network; and (d) strengthen the MOP in the area of
environmental impact assessments and their capacity to monitor the road sector.

B) Project Design:

     The project was designed to assist the MOP in the implementation of their 1995-1998 Investment
and Maintenance Program for a total of US$1.94 billion. The loan agreed with the Bank for the
amount of US$120 million only financed key specific and innovative sub-components of the program,
including the application of modern techniques, specialized equipment or state-of-the-art know how,
closely associated with the above institutional objectives and policies.

     Road Investments (40.6% of the total project cost) included second roadways, road
improvements, construction of bypasses, intersections at various levels, road safety infrastructure and
consulting services for the engineering, supervision and preparation of BOT schemes. Road
Maintenance (52.5% of the total project cost) included periodic and routine maintenance work,
procurement of equipment, special maintenance operations (tunnels, weighing and toll systems,
bridges, river works and signalling), consulting and training services. Management represented 6.9%
of the amount, of which 2.8% were for investment and 4.1% for maintenance.

     The total project cost, including around US$330 million in taxes and identifiable fees and US$136
million in price contingencies, reached the sum of US$2.08 billion.

C) Project Execution

     Organization. The project's general administration and coordination was the responsibility of the
Department of Coordination of Foreign Credits, currently reporting to the Under Directorate of
Administration and Finance.

     The Roads Directorate of the MOP was responsible for Project execution. This Directorate is
divided into seven operating sub-directorates: Planning and Studies; Construction; Urban Roads;
Exploitation, Administration and Finance; Human Resources and Regions. The Construction and
Urban Roads sub-directorates executed the road safety infrastructure works, not included in the
projects granted under concession. The Exploitation Sub-Directorate was responsible for overseeing
the Project's maintenance sub-components (including part of the Road Safety one), while the Directors
of the 13 regional offices were responsible for the implementation. The environmental sub-components
were managed by the Environment and Territory Unit, reporting directly to the Directorate. The
General Coordinator of Concessions within the General Directorate of Public Works managed the road
concession sub-component in coordination with the Roads Directorate. The Training Unit, reporting to
the Sub-directorate of Human Resources, was responsible for the training.

     The Roads Directorate currently has a staff of 4600 people, of which 800 are professionals
(around 300 are engineers.) Currently, some 1,600 public workers carry out road maintenance
activities under direct administration (approximately 10% of the total maintenance budget). However,



                                                     - 16 -

this labor force is expected to decline significantly by attrition in the coming years. Currently, 100% of
the new construction works are executed under contract. The policy of the Roads Directorate is to
continue expanding the contract portion of maintenance, thus carrying out an orderly transition to a full
contract-based maintenance, except for the maintenance under Direct Management that will continue
to be performed with an increasing level of technical personnel and equipment.

      Project Modifications. During the Project execution period, and at the request of the Government
of Chile, several modifications were introduced in the project's execution schedule and in the allocation
of funds among various categories. The following table shows a summary of the modifications and
fund allocations:

                                           Agreement            1st           2nd            4th
                                                         Reallocation/ Reallocation/ Reallocation/
                                                            Extension       Extension    Extension
                                                           01/26/1999      10/30/2000    05/30/2002
                     Category               Allocated       Allocated       Allocated    Allocated
                                              amount         amount         amount         amount

        (1) Civil works for parts A.2,             98,7           120,0          110,0          117,8
        B.1 & B.3 of the project
        (2) Goods for parts B.1, B.3 &              14,0             0,0           5,0             1,3
        B.4 of the project
        (3) Consulting services for                  6,8             0,0           3,0             0,9
        parts A.4, B.5, B.6, C.1, C.2 &
        C.3 of the project
        (4) Training                                 0,5             0,0           2,0             0,0
                                                  120,0           120,0          120,0          120,0

      Originally, the term of the loan expired on June 30, 1999. With the 1st reallocation/extension of
01/26/1999, besides reassigning the categories, it was extended until December 31, 2000. On
10/30/2000, the Bank approved the second reallocation/extension to the loan agreement which, besides
reallocating the categories, extended the closing date until June 31, 2002. With the third
reallocation/extension dated April 4, 2001, the Bank approved an increase of the cumulative limit to
the contracting under National Public Bids to US$314 million. On May 13, 2002, the Bank approved
the 4th reallocation/extension, extending the closing date to December 31, 2002. On May 30, 2002 the
Bank approved a 5th reallocation/extension which once again reallocated categories. Finally, on
September 25, 2002, the Bank approved a 6th reallocation/extension modifying part C.1 Annex 4 of
the Loan Agreement and establishing a cap of US$7.8 m for Goods and US$334 m in the case of
works to be contracted under National Public Bids.

D) Analysis of Project Development

      The initial cost of the investment and maintenance program for the period 1995 to 1998 was
US$2.08 billion. The program overperformed, since more works than planned were executed. At the
end of 1998, the initially contemplated end year, total investments for US$2.6 billion million had been



                                                      - 17 -

made, well in excess of the target. However, the financing of the various categories and the execution
schedules of the Loan suffered modifications that are explained as follows: a) On instructions of the
Ministry of Finance, disbursements only began to be made as from the 2nd semester of 1996; b) the
development of the works in the program made it possible to maintain a pace of disbursements that
was in excess of the indebtedness framework provided by the Ministry of Finance and c) there was an
appreciation of the dollar well in excess of the variation experienced by domestic prices, which had an
incidence in the existence of significant dollar surpluses. All this lead to the doubling of the execution
term and to the fact that almost the whole of the loan was used to co-finance civil works (Category 1).
At the end, on December 31, 2002, total investments for US$4.59 billion had been made, at the noted
average dollar value. As at December 31, 2002, a total of 43 disbursement applications had been made,
for a value of US$118,877,735.98 (99.06%) which originates an unused balance of US$1,122,264.02
(0.94%) of the total US$120 million of the loan. Additional disbursements for the remaining balance in
the amount of U$S 1,077,736.98 are being processed, as allowed under the grace period granted by
the Bank until April 30, 2003.

     The disbursements comprise the balance of 25 works under advanced contracting, according to
part D 1 a) of annex 4 of the Loan Agreement and as indicated in Negotiation Minutes (paragraph 9),
which amounted to US$19,35 million.

     For the period 1995-1998, shows that the performance of the spending reached 126.1% as
compared to the level established in table No. 2, amounting to slightly more than double the established
value, i.e., 221.1% throughout the total project period which was 8 years instead of 4, 1998-2002.
(Table 3b). The investment/maintenance ratio is 39.7%/53.4% in the first case and 40.0%/52.3% in the
second, both almost similar to what was established in SAR table A-9: 40.6%/52.5%.

     In connection with the achievement of fiscal targets, an adequate performance, both during the
initial period 1995-1998 and across the total period 1995-2002, except for the bicycle lanes to be
developed partly on roads that were later granted under concession.

     The Program on Global Preservation Contracts had an excellent performance, since the execution
of an average of 55 annual contracts of this type allowed for an average annual coverage across the
period of 22,000 Kilometers (28% of the total). Within the average, it should be noted that the targets
were raised year on year.

     Regarding the training program (see table 5 for the period 1995 - 1998, 1999-2002 and 1995 -
2002), it may be seen that the performance of the physical targets was adequate, close to 100%, with
the exception of the amounts in US$ thousands, which were halved, i.e., the targets were met at half
the cost. The training comprised National and Regional Interest Programs and Central Level Programs.
Noteworthy are the following activities: a) "Quality Assurance Plan, PAC, for Road Works" for Fiscal
Inspectors with the participation of 325 professionals, taught remotely using interactive virtual
technology via the Internet, by the Universidad Católica de Chile; b) "Control of Conservation
Operations under Direct Administration," five events for 108 participants in different cities; c) "Snow
Operations under Safe Conditions and Actions" for 71 participants, taught by the Army's School of
Mountaineering; d) "Training Program for the Reconversion and Relocation of Toll Personnel" for 108
staff, with their evaluation being conducted according to Donald Kirk Patrick's method (see attached



                                                     - 18 -

annex 2 in the Borrower's Completion Report). With regard to training abroad (see table 5b in the
Borrower's Completion Report), US$480,406 were used during the period 1995 - 1998, i.e. 96% of
what had been contemplated in the Loan, that was then reallocated to Category 1, Civil Works, and
therefore was funded by the Borrower. There was attendance to 179 events with the participation of
309 staff of the D.V. In the period 1999-2002 there was likewise the attendance to 179 events and the
participation of 309 staff of the D.V. at a cost of US$521,607 that was also borne by the Borrower.
Summarizing, in the period 1995-2002, 559 staff participated in 338 events at a cost of US$
1,002,013.

     In the area of Road Safety, comments and accident statistics are provided indicating that there has
been a moderate decline of the rate of accidents. The effect is seen in the drop in the number of dead
per each 100,000 inhabitants, which went down from 13.3 in 1993 to 10.0 in 2002, while the number
of rural accidents has decreased from 7083 in 1996 to 4973 in 2002. Table F8 (in the Borrower's
Completion Report) shows that the ten main causes of death are attributable to lack of education both
of pedestrians and drivers in public thoroughfares. The contract of the pilot program to improve road
safety on roads I-50 and J-60 of the sixth and seventh regions, which had a high accident rate, was
processed by the General Comptrollership of the Republic at the beginning of January, 2003, so that it
shall be executed by the Roads Directorate within the year 2003 with fiscal funds, without co-financing
by the Bank, at a cost of US$1.04 million.

     In the case of the Weighing stations, two projects were financed: Supply and Installation of a
fixed automatic weighing system for the Huara weighing station, I Region, and Supply of 10 units for
mobile weighing and management control support items. It should be noted, that at the fixed weighing
stations, the number of controlled vehicles went from 1.3 million (1983) to 5.9 million (1994) and 8.3
million (2002), with a decrease of overweight vehicles from 18% to 1.9% in 2002. The trend is the
same in mobile weighing stations. Also noteworthy is the increase in weighing systems in Cargo
Generation Companies from 23 (1994) to 247 (2002) and in the number of vehicles controlled from
131,000 (1994) to 3,000,000 (2002). All this has turned the Road Weighing area into an international
leader in these matters, and their advise has been requested by several countries. The issue of tolls will
not be analyzed because toll collection is a function that was transferred to the concessionaires, with
the staff in the Roads Directorate that previously performed this task being retrained to carry out other
tasks within the Agency.

     In spite of the reallocation of US$14 million from Cat. 2 (Goods) to Cat. 1 (Civil Works), the
Borrower acquired with its own funds specialized and traditional machinery for the amount of
US$37.30 million (including weighing and toll equipment); importantly the purchase of 7 salt
distribution units, 2 bull dozers units, 6 weed clearing units, 1 power snow sweeper, 1 snow blower,
etc..

     To conduct the environmental impact evaluation and monitoring, different actions were
implemented during the period, with excellent results, although they were not financed with the Loan.
In effect (see attached Annex No. 5), several studies were contracted, including "A Service Regarding
the Implementation of an Environmental Management system (SGA, for the Spanish language
acronym) for the Roads Directorate" for the XI Region, that will later be extended to the rest of the
country. It is designed to obtain an ISO 14,000 certification for the system. On the other hand, the



                                                     - 19 -

environmental evaluation guidelines and methodologies have been enhanced with the generation of new
instruments: firstly, the development of Roads Manual 9, dedicated to Environmental Impact
evaluation and monitoring and the development of a significant number of guidelines, manuals and
methodology prepared by the Territorial Development Unit (UDT), that replaced the UMA. Likewise,
the Environmental Data Bank that is already gathering data from public services, with a large quantity
of information that has already been integrated into the Roads Directorate SIG. The UDT, reporting to
the Roads Directorate (D.V.) shares experiences, typologies of solutions with the General Coordinator
of Concessions and has also developed a considerable number of protocols and agreements both with
the private sector (clean manufacturing agreements) and the public sector through inter-ministerial or
inter-agency agreements. With reference to environmental sensitization, which is part of the UDT's
mission, it has a web page and participates in all the tenders that are called. All of the above is
indicative of the relevance that the Roads Directorate has attached to this area, pursuant to the Loan's
key objectives.

     The institutionalization of the accounting system for maintenance costs by Direct Administration
was the responsibility of the Conservation Department, reporting to the Exploitation Sub-Directorate
and it was achieved with excellent results. In effect, the D.V. (see attached Annex No. 1) has the
S.A.M. (Maintenance Administration System) which is a computer tool running under Windows, that
is used to keep a data base to determine the quantity of works carried out and their costs, which
allowed this objective of the Loan to be met. It is highlighted that in 2001, the Direct Administration
area took care of 18344 km (23.7% of the national network). That same year (2001), 4914 km of
network were covered with traditional contracts, 25531 km were covered by Global Contracts, and 62
km by replacement, with a total of 48,851 km (63.06% of the national network). The remainder of the
network (in the order of 28000 km) received some minor and sporadic interventions.

     In connection with Pavement and Calibration Management and use of the HDM-III and HDM-IV
Models, the following may be noted: a) to adjust the HDM models to the national circumstances, in
1984 Universidad de Chile and Universidad Católica were hired to conduct a series of investigations
for the development, calibration and implementation of HDM in a system called Comprehensive
Management for Pavement Maintenance (GIMP, for the Spanish-language acronym). b) In 1994, the
same universities were hired to conduct studies to continue the follow up of flexible and rigid
pavements, with the measurement of the level of deterioration being conducted through the
examination of sample areas (91 in total) located between the I and X regions, measuring cracks,
potholes, loss of arid materials, rutting, staggering and IRI. This made it possible to complement and
update the calibration of the flexible pavement behavior models of the HDM-III model and the
behavior of rigid pavements included in the GIMP. c) In 2000, two studies were initiated to update the
HDM-III and GIMP models, which made it possible to analyze and calibrate some of the models
included in HDM - 4. d) For non paved roads, there are series of studies developed in the Road
Management Department (DV) on Loss of Materials and Roughness, for inclusion in the HDM-III.
The Pavement Management Department has developed the following outputs: a) "Proposal of
Maintenance actions and Status of the Paved Roads Network - March, 2002" that reflects data on the
visual inspection, road inventory, IRI, traffic and a graphic representation of the condition of the roads,
using the Road Directorate's SIG; b) "Technical & Economic Evaluation of the National Roads
Network - June, 2002" using the HDM -III and HDM-4 models, including the processing of paved and
non paved road data, to obtain technical and economic indicators such as Investment levels and a long



                                                      - 20 -

term prioritized Intervention Program according to the NPV and c) "Scoping and Characteristics of the
National Roads Network - March, 2001" which contains an updated cadastre of the Road
Infrastructure.

     All of the above has placed the Roads Directorate in an international leadership position regarding
Pavement Management, as evidenced by the training courses held on the subject: "Workshop of HDM
Latin American Experts", January, 2001 for 55 professionals from various countries; "International
HDM Course, Theory and Practice", May 2001, 20 professionals from various countries; "Course on
Road Network Investment Evaluation using HDM-4", August-December, 2002, directed to D.V.
professionals (a total of 137) and divided into three modules.

     On a bi-annual basis (odd years), the condition of the Roads Network was assessed, with results
shown in attached Table 6, including the last evaluation (2001). In 1995, regarding paved roads, 64%
were in a good condition, a figure that dropped to 61% in 2001 because, when the visual inspection
was done, many segments of roads under concession were demolished as a result of changes in the
layout or slopes to be later reconstructed, so that this situation will revert when the new pavements
under concession are commissioned for use.

     Regarding gravel roads, there is a leap from 10% (1995) to 52% (2001) of roads in good
conditions, which reflects the success of the Global Maintenance Contracts program, since those roads
were the particular focus of that program. The network of dirt roads was also improved from 0%
(1995) to 14% (2001), with a drop from 48% to 32% of those that were in a poor condition.

     Another program relating to Capacity Building was "Data Gathering on the National Roads
Network (Infrastructure, Environment, Natural Risks) that was co-financed by the Bank; 50,000 km of
the network were surveyed, complementing the 30,000 km already surveyed by the Roads Directorate.
The following specific objectives were achieved: a) a geodesic support network for the survey,
milestoned at D.V. sites; b) the data regarding the Roads Network that serves as support for the
management of D.V.'s own projects was gathered and updated (environmental and natural risks
information); c) geo-referenced information was generated, updated and gathered for incorporation
into the Geographic Information System (SIG) (network geometry and infrastructure); d) thematic and
synthetic map products were developed on aspects required at the regional and national level; e)
updated road relational data bases were created; f) a segmented network was developed, which allows
for the spatial location of any event according to the road and kilometer code; and g) training of the
DV staff in the regions for an efficient use of the SIG system.

     Thus, a modern and very powerful tool was obtained, that will be intensively used in the future in
the planning and development of the country's road infrastructure.

     The implementation of the BOT Concession System was carried out by the General Coordinator
of Concessions reporting to the General Directorate of Public Works, and this was done without
resorting to funding under the Loan. Thus, all the necessary consulting and training were paid for by
the Borrower. Together with officials from the General Coordinator of Concessions, a realistic and
updated list was drawn, detailing the projects granted under concession. Table No. 4 was compiled on
the basis of said data and it indicates that the compliance with the number of proposals was 61.9%, but



                                                      - 21 -

the amount was 145.1% of what had been indicated in the Loan Agreement in the period 1995 - 1998
and 100% and 226.4%, respectively, in the period 1995 - 2002. Given the success attained with the
Concession system for Road Infrastructure, it has been extended to other areas such as Airport, Dams
and Prison Infrastructure, with 12 projects granted under concession for the sum of US$400 million
between 1994 and 2001.

     Finally, the TPSC was submitted to an ex-post evaluation to compare it with the ex-ante
evaluation. As a result, it was found that although some of the policies executed by the Roads
Directorate during the evaluation period 1994/2000, were different from the optimal theoretical
policies determined by the ex-ante evaluation, the Economic Indicators (CNV and IRR) were positive
for the items under consideration, with a magnitude similar to those projected, mainly due to the
variations observed in traffic parameters and especially due to the growth rates for the various types of
vehicles, thus demonstrating a correct investment policy.

Compliance with Contractual Commitments

     The Borrower sent a Quarterly Report to the Bank on a quarterly basis, with a total of 32,
indicating the progress and achievement of the various agreements: Targets, Expenditure, Efficiency
Indicators, etc.

F. Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower and the Bank

a)      The Borrower. In spite of external factors that caused the term of the Project to be doubled and
        the restructuring of the Roads Directorate that has and is still causing a series of adjustments, it
        is estimated that the performance of all agencies that took part in the project implementation
        and execution was highly professional and dedicated, which is demonstrated by the
        achievement of the objectives, in spite of the lack of adequate co-financing for several of them.
        We should note the implementation of the Global Maintenance Contracts, the installation of the
        SIG system throughout the country, the remarkable progress in Pavement Management, the
        fruitful efforts in the area of Environmental strengthening and the notable achievements in Road
        Infrastructure Concessions. Those projects that could not be co-financed with the Bank were or
        will be contracted on the basis of local funds, to secure the achievements of the Project. If any
        factors that caused disturbances were to pinpointed, specially to obtain data to set up Efficiency
        Indicators and Targets, that could be the new structure of the D.V. database, which cannot be
        obtained without prior processing.

b)      Bank. The success of the Third Road Sectorial Project is due, to a great extent, to the excellent
        predisposition and collaboration of the Bank staff. That was clearly demonstrated in the
        preparation of the Basic Conditions, Technical Specifications and Terms of Reference for the
        Technological Innovation Program that could be procured thanks to the prompt and effective
        assistance of the Bank, and which in the end was not completed in the case of most of its
        projects due to the lack of the corresponding budget allocation. In general, the Project operated
        on a fluid basis and with minimum problems except, as an exception, the requirement in the
        Administrative Conditions to award to the lowest price bidder, which brought about some
        difficulties in the Global Maintenance Contracts Program.




                                                      - 22 -

G. Lessons Learnt

     Global Maintenance Contracts. This program, under full development, has shown efficiency for
the ongoing maintenance of networks in the order of 400 km, with significant savings of administrative
expenses, as compared to Specific Contracts, and can continue operating until it is replaced with
Service Level Contracts for concessions, an option that is currently under study for the future. The
current CGM will continue covering other less important networks. A couple of deficiencies have been
detected in the Administrative Conditions: i) the requirement to award to the lowest-price bidder,
which creates problems in enforcing the contract, specially in times of crisis; ii) the requirement to
submit the documents under arts. 68 and 69 at the time of Opening of Bids, which makes it difficult to
conduct a detailed analysis of such documents.

     International Public Bids. When expressions of interest were requested for the International
Public Bids, there were few companies interested in participating, perhaps dissuaded by the low
amount set for the threshold. This would indicate that it may be convenient to increase such threshold
for future projects. In the end, only Chilean affiliates participated in some bids.

     Ex-post Project Evaluation. It is estimated that in order to conduct an ex-post project evaluation,
at least 5 years need to have elapsed since the ex-ante evaluation. For this purpose, the newly
completed SIG could be used, to store the follow-up of the roads in order to have timely and reliable
information and extend the coverage, with a data base that is easily accessible from around the country,
containing the evaluations of road or road network projects, both ex-ante and ex-post. All this could be
implemented in the medium term.

H. Projections

     Road Maintenance. In the near future, a new generation of service level concession contracts is
envisaged, financed either through tolls, shadow tolls or a combination of both. These will gradually
replace the current CGMs and the specific contracts. Direct Management should remain in place to
take care of emergencies and those roads which are not profitable for business.

     Geographic Information System. The Regions need to be equipped in the short term with proper
equipment (servers, GPS) to enable them to update the SIG installed throughout the country, so it may
be serve as a powerful general road management tool.

     Pavement Management. It is necessary to continue strengthening the Pavement Management
Department which has achieved significant progress. The HDM-4 model needs to be continuously
updated and the expertise achieved should be projected abroad.

     (b) Cofinanciers:


     (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


     10. Additional Information




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                       Actual Annual            Actual Annual
                            Projected  Average Years Compliance Average Years Compliance
Indicator                    in SAR     1995-1998       %        1995-2002       %

Road administration
expenditures as a
percentage of total road
expenditure                    < 9%        6.9         123.3          8         111

Road supervision costs as a
percentage of the repective
civil works cost               < 6%        4.4         126.7         6.1         98

Average percentage of
physical contingencies in
civil works contracts          < 8 %       8.2         97.5          7.6        104.5

Average percentage of
physical contingencies in
consulting services'
contracts                      < 8%        4.2         147.5         6.4        120.3

Calendar days elapsed
between opening of bids
and contract awards:

  (a) for civil works
contracts                    < 28 days     27.7        101.1        29.4         95

  (b) for consulting
services contracts           < 30 days     30.6        98.0         40.4        65.3



Road maintenance
expenditures (including road
maintenance administration
expenditures) as a
percenteage of total road
expenditures                  > 56%        57.4        102.5        56.5        100.9

Force account maintenance
expenditures as percentage
of total maintenance
expenditures                 < 18 %        12.8        128.9        14.1        121.5




                                              - 24 -

Output Indicators:

                                            Projected in   ACTUAL      Compli-  ACTUAL       Compli-
             Incicator              Unit        SAR       1995-1998    ance %   1995-2001    ance %

Investment
Road widening, two to four lanes     km          50.0         56.5      113.0      66.2       132.4
Paving of gravel roads               km        2,100.0      2,079.6     99.0      3,647.8     173.7


Periodic Maintenance of Paved
Roads

Seals and surface treatments         km        1,678.0      2,689.6     160.3    4,020.80     239.6
Overlays/Rehabilitation              km        3,523.0      2,382.7     67.6     4,093.50     116.2


Global Contracts
Contracts in Execution             Number       131.0        181.0      138.2     418.0       319.1

Length of roads under maintenance    km       36,080.0     70,093.3     194.3   172,423.0     477.9

Expenditures                       $ million    165.7        216.4      130.6     454.0       274.0


Road Safety Infrastructure
Bike paths                           km         175.0         75.7      43.3       97.6       55.8
Vehicular overpasses               Number        26.0         51.0      196.2      80.6       310.0
Pedestrian overpasses                m         2,200.0      3,536.4     160.7     4,632.6     210.6
Roadsigns and Roadmarkings         $ million     11.7         36.0      307.7      70.3       600.9


Road concessions subprojects
Concession bids to be opened       Number        21.0         13.0      61.9       21.0       100.0
Amount                             $ million   2,116.0      3,069.7     145.1    4,790.60     226.4


Routine and Periodic Road
Maintenance
Right-of-way clearing               sq. m    35,200,000.0 78,172,208.0  222.1  190,336,986.0  540.7
Cleaning of ditches                  m       5,200,000.0  6,224,983.0   119.7  11,651,020.0   224.1
Gravel roads patching               cu. M     880,000.0   1,599,644.0   181.8   2,722,005.0   309.3
Gradng of roads                      km       740,000.0    763,117.0    103.1   1,684,108.0   227.6
Maintenance of timber bridges        m        48,800.0     78,583.0     161.0   145,417.0     298.0
Sealing of cracks and joints         m       2,200,000.0  2,155,547.0   98.0    3,029,486.0   137.7
Patching of paved roads shoulders   sq. m     800,000.0   1,311,181.0   163.9   2,963,528.0   370.4
Periodic maintenance, regravelling   km        7,600.0     18,253.0     240.2    34,009.0     447.5




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a. Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equvalent)


  Project Component     Appraisal Estimate  Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal

Investment                            787.7            1,833.4                  232.8

Construction Works                    278.6             700.2                   251.3
Upgrading Works                       435.5             961.9                   220.9
Road Safety Works                     53.1               62.6                   117.9
Consulting Services                   20.5               82.4                   402.0
Exproprietions                          0.0              26.3                     n/a

Maintenance                        1,017.7             2,399.1                  235.7

Periodic                              667.4            1,465.2                  219.5
Routine                               222.7             624.1                   280.2
Other Maintenance                     76.2              213.0                   279.5
Equipment                             32.7               37.3                   114.1
Consulting and Training               18.7               59.5                   318.2

Administration                        134.1             356.7                   266.0

Investment                            53.6              142.7                   266.2
Maintenance                           80.5              214.0                   265.8



Total Base Cost                    1,939.5             4,589.2                  236.6

Price Contingencies                   135.8               0.0                     0.0

Total Project Cost                 2,075.3             4589.1                   221.1



n/a not applicable




                                           - 26 -

Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                              Procurement Method                      Procurement Method
 Expenditure Category                                          Appraisal Estimate                       Latest Estimate
                                                                                      Total                                   Total
                                                    ICB       LCB      Other   NBF    Cost    ICB     LCB      Other  NBF     Cost
1. Works
1.1 Infrastructure
    Construction                                         -        -       -      298.1  298.1    -        -       -      700.2 700.2
    Upgrading                                            -        -       -      466.0  466.0    -        -       -      961.9 961.9
    Road Safety                                          -        56.8    -      -       56.8    -        11.0    -       51.6   62.6
                                                                 (22.7)                 (22.7)            (4.4)                 (4.4)
    Expropriations                                       -        -       -      -       -       -        -       -       26.3   26.3


1.2 Maintenance

   Periodic and Routine                                  -       160.0    17.3   775.1  952.4    -       435.5    -     1653.8 2080.3
                                                                 (64.0)   (6.9)                         (113.2)               (113.2)
   Bridges and Riverbanks                                -        -       -       55.3   55.3    -        -       -      174.4 174.4
   Tolls, Tunnels & Weighing                             -        -       -       13.7   13.7    -        -       -       33.8   33.8
   Roads Signs & Road Marking                            -        10.0     2.5   -       12.5    -        -       -        4.8    4.8
                                                                  (4.0)   (1.0)          (5.0)


2. Goods
2.1 Equipment Road Maintenance                            2.0      1.9     0.7    15.1   19.7    -        -       -     33.1 *   33.1
                                                         (1.4)    (1.3)   (0.5)          (3.2)
   Tolls, Tunnels and                                     8.0      5.4     1.4   -       14.8      0.6    -       -        2.9    3.5
    Weighing Control                                     (5.6)    (3.8)   (1.0)         (10.4)   (0.4)                          (0.4)
    Road Safety                                          -         0.5    -      -         0.5   -        -       -        0.7  0.7-
                                                                  (0.4)                  (0.4)


3. Consultancies
3.1 Design and Supervision                               -        -       -       29.9   29.9      1.1    -       -      137.6 137.7
                                                                                                 (0.9)                          (0.9)
     Technical Assistance                                -        -        8.6   -         8.6   -        -       -      -       -
                                                                          (6.9)          (6.9)


3.2 Training                                                      -
     Local                                               -        -       -       3.0      3.0   -        -       -        2.1    2.1
    Abroad                                               -        -        0.5   -         0.5   -        -        1.1   -        1.1
                                                                          (0.5)          (0.5)


4. Administration                                        -        -       -      143.5  143.5    -        -       -      356.7 356.7


TOTAL                                                    10.0    234.6    31.0  1799.7 2075.3      1.7   446.5     1.1  4139.9 4589.2
                                                          7.0    (96.2)  (16.8)                 (1.13)  (117.6)               (118.9)

* Not including balances of supplier credits not yet paid




                                                                          - 27 -

Annex 2c. Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                                                                        Percentage of
                                     Appraisal Estimate                 Actual         Bank Financing
          Component              Gov't     Bank       Total     Gov't    Bank   Total   Appr.  Actual


Investments                        764.5       23.2      787.7  1,829.0     4.4 1,833.4    2.9     0.2

Civil Works                        746.0       21.2      767.2  1,720.3     4.4 1,724.7    2.8     0.3

 Construction                       278.6       0.0       278.6    700.2    0.0   700.2    0.0     0.0
 Upgrading                          435.5       0.0       435.5    961.9    0.0   961.9    0.0     0.0
 Road Safety                         31.9      21.2        53.1     58.2    4.4    62.6   40.0     7.0

Consultancies                       18.5        2.0       20.5     82.4     0.0    82.4    9.8     0.0

 Design & Supervision                18.0       0.0        18.0     82.4    0.0    82.4    0.0     0.0
 Concessions                          0.5       2.0         2.5      0.0    0.0     0.0   80.0     0.0

Exproprietions                       0.0        0.0        0.0     26.3     0.0    26.3    0.0     0.0

Maintenance                         928.8      88.9     1,017.7 2,284.6   114.5 2,399.1    8.7     4.8

Civil Works                        895.3       71.0      966.3  2,189.1   113.2 2,302.3    7.3     4.9

 Periodic & Routine Maintenance     724.4       0.0       724.4  1,643.0    0.0 1,643.0    0.0     0.0
 Global Maintenance                  99.4      66.3       165.7    333.1  113.2   446.3   40.0   25.4
 Bridges and Riverbeds               51.7       0.0        51.7    174.4    0.0   174.4    0.0     0.0
 Tolls, Tunnels & Weighing           12.8       0.0        12.8     33.8    0.0    33.8    0.0     0.0

 Road Signs & Roadmarking             7.0       4.7        11.7      4.8    0.0     4.8   40.0     0.0

Equipment                           19.7       13.0       32.7     36.9     0.4    37.3   39.8     1.1
 Traditional Maint. Equipment        14.1       0.0        14.1     20.4    0.0    20.4    0.0     0.0
 Special Maintenance Equipment        1.3       3.0         4.3     12.7    0.0    12.7   70.0     0.0
 Tolls, Tunnels & Weighing Equip      4.1       9.7        13.8      3.1    0.4     3.5   70.0   11.4
 Road Safety Equiment                 0.2       0.3         0.5      0.7    0.0     0.7   70.0     0.0

Consultancies                       11.0        4.4       15.4     55.4     0.9    56.3   28.6     1.6

 Design & Supervision                 9.9       0.0         9.9     35.3    0.9    36.2    0.0     2.5
 Maintenance Adminisration            0.8       3.0         3.8     14.1    0.0    14.1   80.0     0.0
 Road Safety                          0.2       1.0         1.2      4.4    0.0     4.4   80.0     0.0
 Environment                          0.1       0.4         0.5      1.6    0.0     1.6   80.0     0.0

Training                             2.8        0.5        3.3      3.2     0.0     3.2   15.2     0.0

 Local Training                       2.8       0.0         2.8      2.1    0.0     2.1    0.0     0.0
 International Training               0.0       0.5         0.5      1.1    0.0     1.1  100.0     0.0


Administration                      134.1       0.0       134.1    356.7    0.0   356.7    0.0     0.0
Investments                          53.6       0.0        53.6    142.7    0.0   142.7    0.0     0.0

Maintenance                          80.5       0.0        80.5    214.0    0.0   214.0    0.0     0.0

Total Base Costs                  1,827.4     112.1     1,939.5  4,470.3  118.9 4,589.2    5.8     2.6

Price Contingencies (7%)            127.9       7.9       135.8      0.0    0.0     0.0    5.8     0.0

Total Project Cost                1,955.3     120.0     2,075.3  4,470.3  118.9 4,589.2    5.8     2.6




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-post economic evaluation consisted of the evaluation of representative road classes taking into
account the actual works done during the project period, current traffic and road condition data, actual
investment and maintenance costs, and updated road user costs. The economic evaluation was done using
the same model used at appraisal, which is the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
calibrated for Chilean conditions (HDM-III-Ch) .

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) economic evaluation consisted of a network analysis, in which 9,116 km
bituminous roads and 66,472 km unpaved roads and were evaluated by analyzing 120 representative road
classes (57 paved road classes and 63 unpaved road classes), which comprised many road sections,
uniform in terms of traffic, road condition, surface type, and geographic region. Each road class was
characterized and evaluated, comparing a series of maintenance or rehabilitation project-alternatives, to
establish a recommended project-alternative that yields the highest Net Present Value (NPV). The SAR
study estimated an overall Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 51% for asphalt concrete roads, 60% for
surface treated roads, and 55% for unpaved roads.

Paved Roads Ex-post Evaluation

For paved roads, the ex-post economic evaluation evaluated a sample of 6 typical road classes (10%
sample), considering that the road sections comprising each road class, identified at the SAR study,
changed differently over time due to different maintenance interventions, traffic growth, loading, and road
deterioration, which turns an ex-post comparison of road classes complex. The road classes evaluated at
the ex-post study, which are given on the table below, were selected to represent well the diversity of the
project.

                                      Road Classed Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                 Road Class   Region     Surface Type           Traffic       Condition   Length (km)
                  NSMR         North          S.T.            Medium           Regular       71
                  CSMM        Center          S.T.            Medium            Bad          79
                  CSMR        Center          S.T.            Medium           Regular       25
                  SAMM         South         A.C.             Medium            Bad           6
                  SSHR         South          S.T.               High          Regular       78
                  SSMR         South          S.T.            Medium           Regular       158



For each road class, the economic evaluation done at appraisal was replicated at the ex-post study using the
SAR data (agency costs, road user costs, traffic, road condition, project-alternatives, etc.), with all costs
adjusted to US dollars of year 2000. The replication was done because the SAR did not present enough
detailed reports for each road class, which could be used to compare the ex-post evaluation, and due to the
need of adopting the same currency for the ex-post comparison. At the ex-post evaluation: a) each road
class was characterized by one representative road section; b) the actual works executed on the
representative road section, between 1994 and 2000, were modeled; c) actual agency costs were adopted; d)
updated road user costs were computed; e) the traffic and road condition measurements on the period
1994-2000 were used; and f) all costs were expressed on US dollars of year 2000.




                                                       - 29 -

Representative Road Sections

The table below presents the road sections selected to represent each road class. On average, the road
sections represent 56% of the length of the corresponding road class.


                                        Representative Road Sections per Road Class

                   Road Class    Road Class      Road Section     % of Road Class
                                Length (km)      Length (km)          Length      Road Section Name

                    NSMR             71               37                 52        Los Loros
                    CSMM             79               40                 51        Huerta Del Maule
                    CSMR             25               12                 48        San Vicente
                    SAMM              6                6                100        Ruta 5
                     SSHR            78               47                 60        Freire
                    SSMR             158              39                 25        Puente Rio Pescado




Road Works

The following table presents the road works recommended on the SAR study and the actual road works
done on the representative road sections. The recommended road works were overlays to be applied in
1994, but the actual works were overlays or reseals applied in different years. The actual works are
different, in part, because the actual traffic was lower than the one projected at appraisal, and because the
SAR recommendations were for a without budget constraint scenario. Other contributing factor is that the
actual timing of the works was also influenced by the phases needed for execution of road works
(feasibility, design and execution).


                                   SAR Evaluation - Recommended Road Works and Timing
               Road Class     1994         1995           1996      1997      1998      1999   2000    2001
                NSMR          Overlay
                CSMM          Overlay
                 CSMR         Overlay
                SAMM          Overlay
                 SSHR         Overlay                                                                 Overlay
                 SSMR         Overlay


                                     Ex-post Evaluation - Actual Road Works and Timing
               Road Class     1994         1995           1996      1997      1998      1999   2000    2001
                NSMR                                                         Reseal
                CSMM          Overlay
                 CSMR                                    Reseal
                SAMM                                     Reseal
                 SSHR                    Overlay
                 SSMR                                   Overlay



Annual Traffic Growth Rate

The following table shows, for each vehicle type, the forecasted annual traffic growth rate at appraisal and
the actual annual growth rate for the period 1994 to 1998. Due to the reduced number of road classes
considered on the ex-post evaluation, it is not possible to draw a countrywide conclusion, but, for the road
classes evaluated at the ex-post evaluation, one can conclude that the SAR estimated values highly
overestimated the projections of the annual traffic growth rate, particularly for trucks and buses, in which



                                                          - 30 -

on some roads there was a negative annual growth rate on the 1994 to 1998 period. For pickups, the
median ex-post annual traffic growth rate was 15% less than the SAR forecast, for cars and heavy trucks
around 45% less, for buses 81% less, and for medium trucks 137% less.

                           SAR Evaluation - Projected 1994 to 2000 Annual Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                                                                       Medium          Heavy
                                           Car           Pickup        Truck           Truck       Bus
                    All Road Classes            8.0              7.5         6.5             5.5      7.5


                           Ex-post Evaluation - Actual 1994 to 1998 Annual Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                                                                       Medium          Heavy
                       Road Class          Car           Pickup        Truck           Truck       Bus
                        NSMR                    3.4             12.1         -3.5          13.6      -3.7
                        CSMM                    4.8              7.9         3.6             5.8     -1.7
                        CSMR                    8.8              5.5       -12.3             0.0    -12.3
                        SAMM                    4.4              7.2         0.3            -1.7     10.3
                         SSHR                   4.8             -0.6         -6.9          -27.8     10.6
                        SSMR                   -0.2             -1.1         -1.3          11.5       4.5
                        Average                 4.3              5.2         -3.4            0.2      1.3
                        Median                  4.6              6.4         -2.4            2.9      1.4
                     Variation (%)           -43%              -15%       -137%           -47%      -81%




Road Characteristics

The following table presents the representative road characteristics, for each road class, in 1994, which
were used on the ex-post study and were defined based on data collected from 1994 to 1996.


                                                   Representative Road Characteristics ­ 1994
                                               Traffic     Roughness     Cracking       Structural
                             Road Class       (AADT)          (IRI)         (%)          Number
                                NSMR               545              3.6          21            1.5
                                CSMM              1689              3.6            7           1.5
                                CSMR              1462              3.5            0           1.5
                                SAMM              2369              3.5            0           1.6
                                SSHR              3255              5.9            0           1.5
                                SSMR              1562              4.3            5           1.5


Road Works Costs

The following table presents: a) the unit road works costs estimated at appraisal, using a computer model
designed to estimate road works costs based on required materials, labor, etc., and b) the actual unit road
work costs obtained from analyzing road works completed in recent years. All costs are expressed in US
dollars of year 2000. The ex-post evaluation shows that the actual costs are higher than the appraisal
estimates for almost all road works, with an average increase of 31% for periodic works. A factor
explaining the increase is that the current construction standards are more demanding than the ones
estimated at appraisal. Another factor is that the appraisal cost estimates were estimated using a computer
model, while the ex-post figures are based on actual costs, which include all the activities done together
with the predominant road work activity and price escalations.




                                                           - 31 -

                                            Financial Unit Road Works Costs (US$/km)
                                                                                SAR       Ex-post  Variation
                                                                             Evaluation Evaluation  (%)
                   Periodic Works
                   Slurry Seal                                                   13685      13300   -3%
                   Single Surface Treatment                                      13685      22400  +64%
                   Double Surface Treatment                                      26887      39900  +48%
                   Overlay 40 mm                                                 93139     118300  +27%
                   Overlay 80 mm                                                123487     152600  +24%
                   Reconstruction Bituminous (Base: 8 cm; AC: 5 cm)             234497     296100  +26%
                   Average                                                                         +31%
                   Recurrent Works
                   Routine Maintenance Bituminous 2L Highway                      1054       3739  +255%
                   Patching                                                        266        326  +23%
                   - All costs in 2000 US$
                   - 7.0 m width roads



Road User Costs

The following table presents the costs required to compute unit economic road user costs using the
HDM-III Model, which are updated periodically by MIDEPLAN (Ministerio de Planificación). The table
presents the appraisal estimates and the ex-post estimates, both expressed in US dollars of year 2000. The
ex-post evaluation shows a decrease on the value of fuel and lubricants of around 27%, a decrease on the
maintenance labor costs of around 11%, in general, an increase on the new vehicle price and tire costs, and
an increase on the value of time of around 40%. The value of time is computed as a function of the average
income of the population, and is estimated to be, in year 2000, around 5.00 US$ per hour for passenger
cars and 2.6 US$ per hour for bus passengers.


                                           Economic Road User Costs Input Requirements
                                                                              Medium Heavy
                                                                 Car  Pickup   Truck   Truck                  Bus
           New Vehicle Cost                SAR Evaluation      10256  11591     31275 82510                127191
           (US$/vehicle)                   Ex-post Evaluation  11147  12223     32949 83524                123879
                                           Variation (%)         +9%    +5%      +5%   +1%                    -3%
           Tire Cost                       SAR Evaluation       39.07 59.56    167.44 228.24                228.31
           (US$/tire)                      Ex-post Evaluation   39.86 73.39    167.56 217.84                232.95
                                           Variation (%)         +2%  +23%          0   -5%                  +2%
           Maintenance Labor Cost          SAR Evaluation        8.04   8.04     8.04   8.04                  8.04
           (US$/hour)                      Ex-post Evaluation    7.12   7.12     7.12   7.12                  7.12
                                           Variation (%)        -11%   -11%     -11%   -11%                  -11%
           Fuel Cost                       SAR Evaluation        0.32   0.32     0.32   0.32                  0.32
           (US$/liter)                     Ex-post Evaluation   0.235 0.235      0.23   0.23                  0.23
                                           Variation (%)        -27%   -27%     -28%   -28%                  -28%
           Lubricants Cost                 SAR Evaluation        3.67   3.67     3.67   3.67                  3.67
           (US$/liter)                     Ex-post Evaluation    2.67   2.67     2.67   2.67                  2.67
                                           Variation (%)        -27%   -27%     -27%   -27%                  -27%
           Value of Time Cost              SAR Evaluation        6.87   9.56     5.15   5.15                35.52
           (US$/hour/vehicle)              Ex-post Evaluation   10.00 13.62      7.19   7.19                52.42
                                           Variation (%)       +46%   +42%      +40% +40%                   +48%
          - All costs in 2000 US$




                                                              - 32 -

The following table presents the resulting unit road user costs at a road roughness of 2.0 IRI and 4.0 IRI
and the road user savings resulting from improving a road from 4.0 IRI to 2.0 IRI, expressed in US dollars
of year 2000. The ex-post evaluation shows an increase on unit road user costs of 16% for cars, an
increase of 20% for pickups, an increase of 3% for medium trucks, a decrease of ­2% for heavy trucks,
and an increase of 60% for buses. The 60% increase on unit road user costs for buses is mainly due to the
increase on the value of time. The ex-post evaluation also shows that the unit road user costs savings,
improving a road from 4.0 IRI to 2.0 IRI, will increase between 0.3% and 8% for cars and trucks, but will
increase substantially for buses (116%), which is also due to the value of time increase.


                                                 Economic Unit Road User Costs
                                                                                           Medium     Heavy
                                                                            Car Pickup       Truck     Truck  Bus
            Road User Costs at               SAR Evaluation               0.217   0.236       0.380    0.818  0.647
            Roughness = 2.0 IRI              Ex-post Evaluation           0.252   0.282       0.391    0.803  1.034
            (US$/vehicle-km)                 Variation (%)               +16%    +20%          +3%      -2%   +60%
            Road User Costs at               SAR Evaluation               0.227   0.251       0.451    0.902  0.674
            Roughness = 4.0 IRI              Ex-post Evaluation           0.262   0.299       0.461    0.887  1.091
            (US$/vehicle-km)                 Variation (%)               +16%    +19%          +2%      -2%   +62%
            Road User Costs Savings          SAR Evaluation               0.010   0.016       0.071    0.085  0.026
            4.0 IRI to 2.0 IRI               Ex-post Evaluation           0.011   0.017       0.071    0.083  0.057
            (US$/vehicle-km)                 Variation (%)                +4%     +8%         0.3%      -2%  +116%
           - All costs in 2000 US$



Economic Evaluation

The following table presents the economic evaluation results, comparing the SAR evaluation and the
ex-post evaluation. The ex-post evaluation shows a reduction on the NPV and IRR on most road classes.
The reduction in benefits is due mainly to the increase on the road works costs and the reduction on the
forecasted annual traffic growth rate. The postponement of the timing of the works and the change on the
type of work done could have either a positive or negative effect on the benefits, depending on the actual
traffic and road works costs. The negative impact on the benefits due to the increase on the road works
costs and the reduction on the forecasted annual traffic growth rate is somewhat compensated by the
increase on the unit road user costs savings. On average, the ex-post NPV is 15% lower than the SAR
estimate and the IRR is 46% lower than the SAR estimate. The SAR IRR estimates range from 33%
to190%, while the ex-post estimates range from 14% to 162%. Despite the reduction in benefits, at the
ex-post evaluation, all road classes remain with a good economic justification, with a median IRR of 46%.


                                                   Economic Evaluation Results
                                             Net Present Value (Million US$)   Internal Rate of Return (%)
                       Road                       SAR       Ex-post Variance      SAR      Ex-post   Variance
                       Class                 Evaluation Evaluation       (%) Evaluation Evaluation        (%)
                       NSMR                         4.8         4.3    -10%          33          15     -55%
                       CSMM                         8.2         8.9      8%          75          49     -35%
                       CSMR                         2.3         1.6    -31%          91          75     -18%
                       SAMM                         2.3         0.6    -73%          38          41       8%
                       SSHR                        15.7        13.0    -17%        156          162       4%
                       SSMR                        16.0        13.6    -15%        190           37     -81%
                       Total                       49.3        42.0    -15%
                       Average                                                     107           58     -46%
                       Median                                                        83          46     -46%
                     - All costs in 2000 US$




                                                             - 33 -

Unpaved Roads Ex-post Evaluation

For unpaved roads, the ex-post economic evaluation evaluated 2 road classes, which represent two typical
policies done on unpaved roads: a) upgrading a road to surface treatment standard, and b) maintaining a
road in good unpaved condition with proper maintenance. The road classes evaluated at the ex-post study,
which are given on the table below, were selected to represent well the diversity of the project.


                                         Road Classed Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                Road Class      Region         Surface Type         Traffic       Condition        Length (km)
                  CGHB           Center           Gravel             High           Good              138
                  CGMM           Center           Gravel           Medium            Bad               64



Road Works

For each road class, the same methodology used for the paved roads was adopted. The following table
presents the road works recommended on the SAR study and the actual road works done on the
representative road sections. On CGHB, the SAR recommended paving in 1994 was postponed by one year
to 1995. On CGMM, the SAR recommended regravelling was done one year before schedule and paving
will be done in 2003.


                                   SAR Evaluation - Recommended Road Works and Timing
              Road Class       1994        1995        1996     1997      1998         1999      2000..      2003
               CGHB           Paving
               CGMM                       Gravel                                      Gravel


                                     Ex-post Evaluation - Actual Road Works and Timing
              Road Class       1994        1995        1996     1997      1998         1999      2000..      2003
               CGHB                       Paving
               CGMM           Gravel                                     Gravel                             Paving



Annual Traffic Growth Rate

The following table shows the forecasted annual traffic growth rate at appraisal and the actual annual
growth rate for the period 1994 to 2000, which indicates that, at least for these 2 roads, the actual traffic
growth rates were much higher than the appraisal estimates.


                            SAR Evaluation - Projected 1994 to 2000 Annual Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                                                                           Medium           Heavy
                                                 Car          Pickup          Truck         Truck          Bus
                   All Road Classes              8.0              7.5            6.5           5.5         7.5


                            Ex-post Evaluation - Actual 1994 to 2000 Annual Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                                                                           Medium           Heavy
                      Road Class                 Car          Pickup          Truck         Truck          Bus
                        CGHB                   20.2              13.1          21.0           41.5        13.8
                        CGMM                   23.2               9.0          50.4           43.2         2.7




                                                            - 34 -

Road Works Costs and Road User Costs

The following table presents: a) the unit road works costs estimated at appraisal and b) the actual unit road
work costs, all costs expressed in US dollars of year 2000, which shows a high variation between the
appraisal and actual costs, either positive or negative. The appraisal and ex-post road user costs used are
the same ones adopted for the paved roads evaluation.


                                                           Financial Unit Road Works Costs (US$/km)
                                                                                                                    SAR            Ex-post Variation
                                                                                                          Evaluation          Evaluation              (%)
                       Periodic Works
                       Regravelling                                                                               19320                 6646         -66%
                       Reconstruction Unsealed (Gravel)                                                           38069               20403          -46%
                       Upgrading Unsealed to Bituminous 2L Highway                                              169533             192780           +14%
                       Recurrent Works
                       Routine Maintenance Unsealed 2L Highway                                                        208               1394        +569%
                       Light Grading                                                                                    50                 52        +3%
                       Heavy Grading                                                                                  130                169        +29%
                      - All costs in 2000 US$
                      - 7.0 m width roads


Economic Evaluation

The following table presents the economic evaluation results.                                                     The ex-post evaluation shows a high
variation on the NPV and IRR for the two road classes. The increase in NPV for CGHB road class, which
includes paving in 1995, is due mainly to the increase on the annual traffic growth rate. The decrease in
NPV for the CGMM road class, which includes periodic maintenance works and paving in 2003, is due
mainly to the fact that paving will be done in 2003 at the ex-post evaluation, which was not considered at
the SAR evaluation. Despite the variation in benefits, all road classes remain with a good economic
justification at the ex-post evaluation.


                                                                   Economic Evaluation Results
                                                         Net Present Value (Million US$)                        Internal Rate of Return (%)
                         Road                                  SAR      Ex-post            Variance                SAR        Ex-post            Variance
                         Class                         Evaluation Evaluation                    (%)       Evaluation Evaluation                         (%)
                         CGHB                                  15.2          33.5           +121%                       41             40               -2%
                         CGMM                                   0.7            0.6            -14%                      27             15              -44%
                       - All costs in 2000 US$



Total Network Evaluation

                                                          N e tw o r k E c o n o m ic E v a l u a t i o n R e s u l t s
                                                        C e ll    N e t P r e s e n t V a l u e ( M illion U S $ )          I n t e r n a l R a t e o f R e t u r n ( % )
          R o a d                                   L e n g t h                    S A R                    E x - p o s t                     S A R           E x - p o s t
          C l a s s                                    ( k m )           E v a l u a t i o n            E v a l u a t i o n         E v a l u a t i o n   E v a l u a t i o n
          N S M R                                          7 1                        4 . 8                          4 . 3                         3 3                   1 5
          C S M M                                          7 9                        8 . 2                          8 . 9                         7 5                   4 9
          C S M R                                          2 5                        2 . 3                          1 . 6                         9 1                   7 5
          S A M M                                             6                       2 . 3                          0 . 6                         3 8                   4 1
          S S H R                                          7 8                     1 5 . 7                        1 3 . 0                       1 5 6                1 6 2
          S S M R                                        1 5 8                     1 6 . 0                        1 3 . 6                       1 9 0                    3 7
          C G H B                                        1 3 8                     1 5 . 2                        3 3 . 5                          4 1                   4 0
          C G M M                                          6 4                        0 . 7                          0 . 6                         2 7                   1 5
          T o t a l                                      6 1 9                     6 5 . 2                        7 6 . 1
          T o t a l W e i g h t e d b y L e n g t h                                                                                                9 7                   5 2
          T o t a l N e t w o r k E s t im a t e                               1 9 0 4 . 0                   2 2 2 2 . 3                      > 5 5              = + - 5 0




                                                                                  - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              8/9/1991                  1     TRANSPORT SPEC                  S               S
              4/5/1992                  5    ECONOMIST (1)                    S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)
              12/15/1993                3    ECONOMIST (1)                    S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/11/1994                5    ECONOMIST (1)                    S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC (1)
                                             LAWYER (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
                                             DISBURSEMENT


 Supervision

              10/23/1995                2    TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALIST (1)
              05/08/1996                2    TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             SR.TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              10/14/1996                1    TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              03/03/1997                1    TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              12/12/1997                1    TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              06/30/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)
              08/12/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY SPECIALIST (1)
              05/07/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              11/19/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              05/12/2000                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              03/26/2001                4    TL TRANSPORT                     S               S
                                             SPEC./SECTOR LEADER FPSI
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); PROJECT COORDINATOR
                                             (1); HIGHWAY SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/11/2001                2    TL TRANSPORT                     S               S
                                             SEPC./SECTOR LEADER FPSI
                                             (1); SECTOR MANAGER
                                             TRANSP. (1)




                                              - 36 -

               11/4/2002               2    TL TRANSPORT                      S    S
                                            SPEC./SECTOR LEADER FPSI
                                            (1); SECTOR MANAGER
                                            TRANSP. (1)

 ICR
               01/06/2003             3     SECTOR LEADER FPSI                S    S
                                            (1); HIGHWAY
                                            ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            46.2                         107.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 30.6                           75.6
  Supervision                           84.3                         321.4
  ICR                                     4.0                          18.5
  Total                                165.1                         523.1




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Direccion de Vialidad, 2002, "Evaluacion Técnico Económica de la Red Vial Nacional 2002", Unidad de
Gestión Vial.

Direccion de Vialidad, 2003, "Informe Final, Tercer Proyecto Sectorial de Carreteras, Préstamo 3833",
Unidad de Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo.

Direccion de Vialidad, 2001, "Formulación Plan de Conservación Vial. Informe Final, 2001", Unidad de
Conservación.

Gobierno de Chile, 2002. "Programa de Concesiones. Chile 2001." Coordinación General de Concesiones.

Gobierno de Chile, 2002. "Seminario Internacional Sistema de Concesiones Chile Programa 2002-2003."
Coordinación General de Concesiones.

Gobierno de Chile, 1998. "Infraestructura Pública y Programa General de Concesiones." Coordinación
General de Concesiones.

Hinojosa, Sergio, Septiembre 2002. "Contratos de Asociación Público Privada de Mantenimiento Vial en
Chile [CAPMVIAL]. Elementos de Diseño Bajo una Optica Económica y Fiscal."




                                                  - 40 -

- 41 -

