Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3833 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Road Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 28, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3833 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"First Road Sector Project" means the Project as so defined, under the 
Loan Agreement (Loan No. 2589-CH) dated October 10, 1985, between the Borrower and the 
Bank in respect of said Project;
(b)
"Global Contract" means a contract between the Borrower and a private 
contractor, whereby such contractor undertakes to perform maintenance works for a 
number of roads in a specific area;
(c)
"MOP" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Public Works;
(d)
"Road Concession Subproject" means a project for the construction and 
operation of roads by a concessionaire under a concession agreement with the Borrower;
(e)
"Roads Directorate" means MOP's directorate responsible for the 
Borrower's road sector;
(f)
"Second Road Sector Project" means the Project as so defined, under the 
Loan Agreement (Loan No. 3120-CH) dated September 28, 1989, between the Borrower and 
the Bank in respect of said Project;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Specialized Maintenance Equipment" means all equipment used for specific 
road maintenance operations, presently being developed or subject to substantial 
improvements in design and operation, such as equipment for snow clearing, grass and 
shrub mowing and road patching and marking; and
(i)
"Traditional Maintenance Equipment" means all equipment types that have 
been developed over the years for general road maintenance activities and are not 
subject to fundamental changes in design and operation, such as tractors, loaders, 
motograders, rollers, compactors and compressors.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and twenty 
million dollars ($120,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
Page  3
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of thisAgreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of 
Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, administrative, environmental, economic and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project substantially in accordance with the efficiency indicators and 
monitoring targets set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and those referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall cause the budgetary allocations for road maintenance during the 
years 1996, 1997 and 1998 to be equivalent to at least $248,000,000, $260,000,000 and 
$273,000,000, respectively.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than 
February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year during the execution of 
the Project, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably 
request on the implementation of the Project in the calendar quarter next preceding 
such dates.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in the month of July of each year during the 
execution of the Project, undertake annual reviews with the Bank of the progress on 
the implementation of the Project and the attainment of its
objectives.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than November 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank the Borrower's proposed road maintenance program 
(including, inter alia, the road maintenance activities to be carried under Global 
Contracts) for the next upcoming year;
(b)
not later than November 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank physical targets, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
routine and periodic maintenance activities to be carried out in the immediately 
upcoming year; and
(c)
not later than August 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank a statistical analysis, satisfactory to the Bank, of the 
Project's activities during the calendar year prior to the presentation date of such 
analysis, such analysis to include, inter alia: (i) information on real unit costs of 
all routine and periodic maintenance operations carried out by force account, 
disaggregated into labor, equipment, fuel, materials and overhead costs, as 
established by the cost accounting system applied under the First and Second Road 
Sector Projects; (ii) if applicable, justification for the annual increase of such 
costs; (iii) disaggregation of the expenditures incurred in the maintenance of the 
basic, primary communal and secondary communal road networks; (iv) information on the 
achievement of the targets set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and those 
referred to in paragraph (b) above; and (v) information on the training activities 
under Part C.4 of the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
comment on any environmental impact assessments which the Borrower shall have to 
prepare in respect of works to be carried out under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Termination
Section 5.01. The date of October 30, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works
Morande 59
Santiago, Chile
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINOBRAS
240777 SETOP CL
 
With copies to:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ John Biehl del Rio
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of
  the Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ John Biehl del Rio
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of
  the Controller General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ John Biehl del Rio
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated            % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
 Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)       Civil works under        98,700,000       40%
          Parts A.2, B.1 and
          B.3 of the Project
(2)       Goods under Parts B.1,   14,000,000       100% of foreign
          B.3 and B.4 of the                        expenditures,
          Project                                   100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and   70%
                                                    of local expen-
                                                    ditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)       Consultants' services      6,800,000      100% of foreign
          under Parts A.4,                          expenditures and
          B.5, B.6, C.1, C.2                        80% of local
          and C.3 of the                            expenditures
          Project
(4)       Training                     500,000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    120,000,000
                                   ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "training" means expenditures to be incurred (i) by MOP's 
managers and professionals undertaking training under Part C.4 of the Project; and 
(ii) in connection with the services of consultants providing such training.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
civil works under Part B.1 of the Project, unless such civil works are 
being provided under a Global Contract; and
(c)
Traditional Maintenance Equipment purchased under Part B.1 of the 
Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than the equivalent of $300,000; (ii) works costing less than the equivalent of 
$5,000,000, except the first two contracts costing more than the equivalent of 
$300,000; (iii) consulting firms' services costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000; and (iv) individual consultants' services costing less than the equivalent 
of $50,000, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) consolidate the Borrower's road 
maintenance and pavement management programs financed under the First Road Sector 
Project and the Second Road Sector Project; (b) support the Borrower's privatization 
efforts in the road sector; (c) improve traffic safety on the Borrower's road network; 
and (d) strengthen MOP's institutional capacity to carry out its activities.
The Project comprises the Borrower's road investment and maintenance program for 
the years 1995-1998 as well as the administration thereof, and consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank 
may agree upon from time to time to achieve the objectives indicated above:
Part A:
Road Investment
 
A program consisting of:
1.
widening and upgrading of roads, and construction of road bypasses and 
overpasses;
2.
construction of road safety infrastructure;
 
3.
engineering and supervision activities related to the carrying out of Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project; and
4.
regulatory framework, feasibility and basic engineering studies for Road 
Concession Subprojects.
Part B:
Road Maintenance
 
A program consisting of:
1.
periodic and routine road maintenance, which will require the acquisition and 
Page  9
utilization of Traditional Maintenance Equipment and Specialized Maintenance 
Equipment;
2.
maintenance of bridges and riverbanks;
 
3.
maintenance of tunnels and toll and weighing stations, which will require the 
acquisition and utilization of equipment for ventilation and traffic control in 
tunnels and for upgrading and control of toll and weighing stations;
4.
maintenance of road signs and road markings and acquisition and utilization of 
road safety equipment;
5.
research on road traffic safety, including exchange of experiences and 
information between MOP and the Borrower's National Police to: (i) select most 
adequate locations for, and improve design of, road safety infrastructure works; (ii) 
enhance quality of road safety services and devices; (iii) promote public road safety 
awareness and education; and (iv) strengthen enforcement of road traffic regulations; 
and
6.
improvement of the road maintenance contracting system.
 
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
A program to strengthen MOP's capacity to carry out environmental impact 
assessment and monitoring in respect of road projects.
2.
Institutionalization of the existing cost accounting system for force account 
maintenance operations, and the performance indicators control system.
3.
Consolidation of the pavement management and the geographic information system 
introduced under the Second Road Sector Project and linkage of such system to the 
Borrower's highway design and maintenance program.
4.
A training program for MOP's managers and professionals consisting of special 
courses on modern road techniques, road safety, environmental impact and road 
concessions. 
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2000
through January 15, 2010
6,000,000
 
Page  10
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
Page  11
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 and 
$5,000,000, respectively, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$7,800,000 in the case of goods, and $226,800,000 in the case of works, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 and 
$300,000, respectively, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,100,000 in the case of goods, and $19,500,000 in the case of works, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for civil 
works, estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $300,000, to be awarded pursuant 
to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank 
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts (other than any contract for civil works costing the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more) on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Page  12
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such 
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above; (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (f) the first two 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each and the first two contracts for the employment of individuals 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
SCHEDULE 5
Efficiency Indicators and Monitoring Targets
A.
Road Administration and Maintenance Efficiency Indicators
 
The following targets for the indicators set forth below shall be achieved by 
the Roads Directorate during each year of the execution of the Project:
          Indicator                            Target
1.  Road administration expenditures           lower than 9%
    as a percentage of total road
    expenditures
2.  Road supervision costs as a                lower than 6%
    percentage of the respective
    civil works costs
3.  Average percentage of physical             lower than 8%
    contingencies in civil works
    contracts
4.  Average percentage of physical             lower than 8%
    contingencies in consulting
    services' contract
5.  Calendar days elapsed between
    opening of bids and contract
    awards:
    (a)   for civil works contracts            less than 28 days
    (b)   for consulting services              less than 30 days
          contracts
6.  Road maintenance expenditures              higher than 56%
    (including road maintenance
Page  13
    administration expenditures)
    as a percentage of total
    road expenditures
          Indicator                            Target
7.  Force account applied to road              lower than 18%
    maintenance expenditures as a
    percentage of total road
    maintenance expenditures
B.
Physical Targets for the Project
 
    Unit                    1995    1996   1997   1998   Total
Investment
    Road widening
     (two to four
     lanes)         km       20     10     10     10      50
    Paving of
     gravel roads   km      500    500    550    550   2,100
Periodic
Maintenance
    Paved Roads:
       Seals and
        surface
        treatment   km      385    409    425    459   1,678
        Overlays    km      479    558    846    922   2,805
        Rehabilitation  km  290    282     99     47     718
Global Contracts
    Contracts in
     execution           Number       19     26     38     50      --
    Length of
     roads under
     maintenance             km    6,080  6,800 10,000 13,200      --
    Expenditures      $ million     28.4   35.5   42.3   59.5   165.7
           Unit            1995     1996   1997   1998  Total
Road Safety
 Infrastructure
    Bike paths               km       37     41     46     51     175
    Vehicular
     overpasses          Number        3      6      8      9      26
    Pedestrian
     overpasses               m      430    560    650    560   2,200
    Roadsigns and
     roadmarking      $ million      0.5    3.3    3.7    4.2    11.7
Road Concession
  Subprojects
    Concession
     bids to be
     opened              Number       10     12      5      4      31
    Amount            $ million      206    811    742    451   2,210
Page  14
C.
Physical Targets for Routine and Periodic Road Maintenance for 1995
 
                                                        By Force
                     Unit     Account    By Contract
Total
Routine Maintenance
  Right-of-way
  clearing                m2    1,800,000      7,000,000    8,800,000
  Cleaning of
  ditches                 m       700,000        600,000    1,300,000
  Gravel roads
  patching                m3      100,000        120,000      220,000
  Grading of roads   km                          130,000       55,000
185,000
  Maintenance of
  timber bridges      m                           12,000          20012,200
  Sealing of cracks
  and joints          m                           50,000      500,000
550,000
  Patching of paved
  roads shoulders         m2      100,000        100,000      200,000
                                           By Force
                     Unit     Account    By Contract
Total
Periodic Maintenance
  Regravelling       km               900          1,000        1,900
For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   "cm" means centimeters;
    (b)   "km" means kilometers;
    (c)   "km2" means square kilometers;
    (d)   "m" means meters;
    (e)   "m2" means square meters; and
    (f)   "m3" means cubic meters.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  15
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  Withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
Page  16
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
