                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR108




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-41970)


                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$372.6 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR A

                   WAIGAOQIAO THERMAL POWER PROJECT


                                   June 25, 2007




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange rate effective December 31, 2006)
                                      Renminbi (RMB) = currency
                                          Currency Unit = yuan
                                           Y 1.00 = US$0.125
                                             Y 0.01 = 1 fen
                                             US$1.00 = Y 8.0


                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                       [January 1 ­ December 31]


                               ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

A/FM Accounting and financial management               O&M       Operation and maintenance
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy                       PA        Project Agreement
EMP  Environmental Management Plan                     PDO       Project Development Objective
ERP  Enterprise Resource Planning (system)             PPF       Project Preparation Facility
FGD  Flue gas desulfurization                          QAG       Quality Assessment Group
FRR  Financial rate of return                          QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
g    Gram                                              RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
gce  Grams of coal equivalent                          SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
GDP  Gross domestic product                            SDK       Shidongkou Thermal Power Plant
GWh  Gigawatt-hour                                     SEPA      State Environmental Protection Administration
I&C  Instrumentation and control                       SMEPC     Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
ICR  Implementation Completion and Results Report      SO2       Sulfur dioxide
IERR Internal economic rate of return                  SP        State Power Corporation of China
ISR  Implementation Status Report                      T&D       Transport and Distribution
JBIC Japan Bank for International Cooperation          TA        Technical assistance
km   Kilometer                                         T/G       Turbine generator
kV   Kilovolt                                          VAT       Value added tax
kW   Kilowatt                                          WB        World Bank
kWh  Kilowatt-hour                                     WGQ       Waigaoqiao Power Generation Plant
M&E  Monitoring and evaluation                         WGQ I     Waigaoqiao Power Generation Plant Phase I
MOF  Ministry of Finance                               WGQ II    Waigaoqiao Power Generation Plant Phase II
MW   Megawatt                                          WPGC      Waigaoqiao Power Generation Company
NDRC National Development and Reform Commission        Y/tce     Yuan/ton of coal equivalent
NOx  Nitrogen oxide



                                      Vice President: James Adams
                                     Country Director: David R. Dollar
                                     Sector Manager: Junhui Wu
                                Project Team Leader: Ranjit Lamech
                                    ICR Team Leader: Noureddine Berrah

                                                   CHINA
                   WAIGAOQIAO THERMAL POWER PROJECT
                                               CONTENTS

Data Sheet

   A. Basic Information

   B. Key Dates

   C. Ratings Summary

   D. Sector and Theme Codes

   E. Bank Staff

   F. Results Framework Analysis

   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

   H. Restructuring

   I. Disbursement Profile

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design............................................. 1

 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................. 4

 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 7

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 12

 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 12

 6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 15

 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......... 16


 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 17

 Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................. 18

 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 21

 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 27

 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 29

 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 30

 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 31

 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 34

 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 35


 MAP: IBRD Map No. 28487

A. Basic Information

                                                                     SHANGHAI
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                     WAIGAOQIAO
Project ID:             P044485               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-41970
ICR Date:               06/25/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
Original Total
                        USD 400.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 372.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Corporation
Waigaoqiao No.2 Power Generation Company
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/24/1996    Effectiveness:         02/04/1999        02/04/1999
Appraisal:             03/14/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/24/1997    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               01/31/2006        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       Highly Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                        100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                               Primary            Primary
Decentralization                                            Secondary          Secondary
Other financial and private sector development               Primary            Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                            Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                  Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:           Junhui Wu                        Richard G. Scurfield
Project Team Leader:      Noureddine Berrah                Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun
ICR Team Leader:          Ranjit J. Lamech
ICR Primary Author:       Noureddine Berrah
                          Ivy H. Cheng
                          Weigong Cao



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The original objectives were to: (a) increase electricity supply to reduce the acute power
shortages in Shanghai through construction of the first two 900 MW coal-fired
supercritical thermal units in China; (b) develop a program to apply for the first time in
China the "bubble concept" for cost effective air quality management within the
Shanghai Municipality; (c) support the ongoing reform by restructuring the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC) in line with the power sector reform
strategy; increasing private sector involvement through listing of the generating



                                              ii

company; and adjusting the tariff level to accommodate the stricter sulfur dioxide
emission standards; and (d) promote an innovative and diversified financing model for
large infrastructure projects and improve the access of power entities to international
financial markets.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Load shedding (planned and unplanned) in MW/Total demand (recorded peak
                load plus load shedding) in MW
Value
quantitative or 14.5% (1000/6916)          9.3%                N/A            1.3% (260/19,800)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                   12/31/2006          12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed substantially (13.2% actual reduction vs. 5.2% targeted

achievement)    reduction)

Indicator 2 :   Availability of Waigaoqiao II Units
Value
quantitative or Benchmark for both units   85% for both units N/A             Unit 1: 90.7%

Qualitative)    85%                                                           Unit 2: 83.9%

Date achieved 12/31/1995                   12/31/2006          12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Unit 1: surpass target by 6.7%; Unit 2: close to target with small shortfall (1.3%)

achievement)    due to major planned maintenance.

Indicator 3 :   Fuel efficiency (Coal consumption gce/kWh)
Value           348 gce/kWh (SMEPC         295 gce/kWh
quantitative or                            (Waigaoqiao II      N/A            296.2 gce/kWh
Qualitative)    average)                   both units)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                   12/31/2006          12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Nearly equal to target achievement
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Average power price/LRMC in percent
                                                               Target date
                                                               revised to the
Value                                                          date of
quantitative or 83.4%                      100%                effective      116%
Qualitative)                                                   separation of
                                                               generation
                                                               assets
Date achieved 12/31/1995                   12/31/2006          12/31/2005     12/31/2005



                                               iii

Comments
(incl. %        Surpassed target
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   SO2 Emission Reduction
Value           48,000-49,000 tons of                                       46,075 tons. A net
quantitative or SO2 emission removed      Positive value     .              reduction of 9,275
Qualitative)    from Shidongkou                                             tons
Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/2006         12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The bubble concept was effective in reducing sulfur dioxide emission.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Rate of Return on Equity of SMEPC
Value                                                        Indicator
quantitative or 15% (benchmark)            15%               dropped due to N/A
Qualitative)                                                 reorganization
Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/2006         12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The associated financial covenant was no longer relevant and dropped as part of

achievement)    the legal amendment.

Indicator 7 :   Training Provided (staff months)
Value
quantitative or 807.5 (benchmark)          807.5             n.a.           1,008
Qualitative)                              (benchmark)

Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/1996         12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Surpassed target; 125% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   TA for Restructuring and Financial Management
Value
quantitative or TA provided                Completed TA      N/A            TA completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/2001         12/31/2003     12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Objective met though content modified to respond to changing needs. Target

achievement)    date postponed due to ongoing restructuring and expansion of TA scope.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   SO2 Emissions Reduction
Value
(quantitative   48,000 tons of SO2        None defined at                   Positive values
or Qualitative)                           appraisal

Date achieved 12/31/1995                  12/31/1995                        12/31/2005
Comments        None defined at appraisal.



                                              iv

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  TA for Restructuring and Financial Management
                                                          Restructuring
                                                          completed.
                                                          Financial
Value                                                     management
(quantitative  Not applicable                             upgraded to  Completed
or Qualitative)                                           ERP.
                                                          Implementatio
                                                          n well
                                                          advanced.
Date achieved 12/31/1995                                  12/31/2002   12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %       None defined at appraisal
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                       IP              Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     08/29/1997          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     05/07/1998          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     11/17/1998          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  0.00
  4     06/13/1999          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 38.16
  5     12/24/1999          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 38.78
  6     06/15/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 39.85
  7     12/28/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 44.55
  8     06/26/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 59.39
  9     12/17/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                121.32
  10    05/23/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                167.09
  11    12/12/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                240.07
  12    04/10/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                277.54
  13    05/27/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                283.20
  14    12/17/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                303.66
  15    06/11/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                326.89
  16    11/18/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                331.82
  17    05/10/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                343.43
  18    12/02/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                351.30
  19    04/18/2006          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                353.87
  20    10/25/2006          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                364.74



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



                                             v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

At appraisal, the power sector in China was emerging from a period of acute shortages. It was
facing inadequate financing of infrastructure, transmission bottlenecks, inadequate wholesale
electricity and transmission pricing systems, and unclear corporate relationships among power
sector entities. At the same time, the sector was adjusting to a new legal and regulatory
framework stemming from the enactment of the Corporate Law in 1993 and the first
Electricity Law in 1996.

In this context, power companies were struggling to meet fast-growing demand, especially in
Shanghai, China's industrial, commercial, and financial center. Provincial and municipal
power companies did not have access to financial markets and relied mainly on domestic
commercial banks to meet their financing needs. Private investments were being piloted, but
their contribution remained limited.              Environmental awareness was increasing, and the
Shanghai Municipality adopted higher standards than the national ones.

The Bank supported the project for four main reasons:                      (a) demonstration effect--the
introduction of the first two large supercritical units in Shanghai would lead to the diffusion of
advanced and more environmentally friendly technologies; (b) advancing reform--the
Shanghai Municipality was very receptive to policy changes to advance the reform agenda;
(c) testing the "bubble concept"1--this innovative approach would lead to better or optimal
use of resources to mitigate environmental impacts; and (d) feasibility of accessing
commercial financing.

As detailed below, the project was successful in these endeavors.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

The original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were to (a) increase electricity supply to
reduce the acute power shortages in Shanghai through construction of the first two 900 MW
coal-fired supercritical thermal units in China; (b) develop a program to apply the bubble
concept for the first time in China for cost-effective air quality management within the
Shanghai Municipality; (c) support the ongoing reform by restructuring the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC) in line with the power sector reform strategy,
increasing private sector involvement through listing of generating company, and adjusting
the tariff level to accommodate the stricter sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission standards; and (d)
promote an innovative and diversified financing model for large infrastructure projects and
improve the access of power entities to international financial markets.


1   The bubble concept is an approach to reduce an area's overall SO2 emission most cost effectively. When a
    new thermal power generation plant is constructed, instead of necessarily including flue gas desulfurization
    (FGD) facilities at the site, the approach calls for potential FGD installation at an alternative (existing)
    thermal power plant where the cost of per unit SO2 removal is lower. Main criteria for location selection are:
    (a) estimated SO2 reduction at the chosen site would at least offset the anticipated emission from the new
    plant; and (b) it is a lower cost alternative.



                                                       1

The key indicators for monitoring the project outcome and impacts consisted of a reduction in
load shedding, the availability of the Waigaoqiao Power Generation Plant Phase II (WGQ II)
units, improved fuel efficiency, adequacy of average consumer tariff, net reduction of SO2
emissions, a declining share of state holding in Shanghai's power sector, the SMEPC's rate of
return on equity, training completed, and technical assistance (TA) accomplished for
restructuring and financial management.

1.3      Revised PDOs and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and Reasons/Justification

The PDOs were not revised. However, performance indicators were adapted after the project
ownership was transferred from the SMEPC to the Waigaoqiao Power Generation Company
(WPGC).2 The main changes are (a) average system-wide power tariff was no longer tracked
after 2005 as the SMEPC, the system operator, was no longer involved in the project, and the
average tariff in the Shanghai Municipality was already higher than long-term marginal cost
and the government issued regulations to increase the tariff by 2 fens/kWh (0.02 RMB/kWh)
to compensate the companies for stricter SO2 emissions standards; and (b) financial
monitoring focused on the WPGC after the legal agreements were amended (Section 3.3).

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

The SMEPC was identified as the direct beneficiary in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). It is
clear that the implementing agencies benefited greatly from the various TA and training
programs and systems acquired to improve their operational and management systems and
provide more reliable services to sustain growth and benefit consumers. In retrospect, the
electricity consumers of Shanghai Municipality who had long suffered from an inadequate
supply and deteriorating air quality should have also been identified as ultimate beneficiaries
of the project.

1.5      Original Components

The project included the following components: (a) construction of two 900 MW coal-fired
supercritical thermal units in Pudong (WGQ II); (b) installation of flue gas desulfurization




2   The WPGC was established as a separate company in 2000. SMEPC, as controlling shareholder of the
    company, continued to function as owner of the project, and led the implementation effort. As sector
    restructuring progressed, SMEPC became a subsidiary of the State Power Corporation of China (SP). By
    2002, the WPGC was spun off and incorporated as independent power generation company. In this process,
    all SMEPC's shares in the WPGC were also transferred to other national and provincial power energy
    investment companies. Project ownership, obligations and implementation responsibilities henceforth were
    handed over to the WPGC. The three shareholders of the WPGC are partially listed on international and/or
    local financial markets.


                                                     2

(FGD) facilities at Shidongkou Thermal Power Plant (SDK)3; (c) construction of two 500 kV
transmission lines (2 circuits x 50 km) with associated substation; (d) construction
management and engineering services; (e) TA for implementation of modern accounting and
financial management (A/FM) systems; (f) TA for implementation of the sector restructuring;
and (g) management development and training program.

1.6     Revised Components

Because of changes in the overall operating environment, minor changes were required in
components (b) and (e) without impact on the PDOs.

Component (b): Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) facilities at Shidongkou Thermal Power
Plant (SDK). With the opening of the coal market, SDK was allowed to purchase coal with
lower sulfur content. Consequently, FGD at SDK was no longer the most cost-effective under
the bubble concept. A study carried out by the SMEPC concluded that installation of FGD at
Waigaoqiao Power Generation Plant Phase I (WGQ I), combined with the use of low-sulfur
coal at SDK, would provide approximately the same overall environmental benefits.4 The
Bank and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), financier of the component,
concurred, and so this revised course was followed.

Component (e): TA for Accounting/Financial Management (A/FM) Systems. The original
component included systems studies and implementation of recommended organizational
improvements and A/FM systems. In response to the company's evolving restructuring, the
scope of the TA was extended to cover implementation of an integrated Enterprise Resource
Planning system (ERP). The expanded scope of TA was funded by the SMEPC (Annex 2(e)).

1.7     Other Significant Changes

Project Ownership: Project ownership and implementation responsibilities were transferred
from the SMEPC to the WPGC (refer to footnote 2 under Section 1.3). Although the change
was significant from the legal, financial, and personnel standpoints, the transition had limited
impact on project execution.

Implementation Schedule and Loan Closing: Project completion was delayed for about a year
and a half. This was mainly a result of the government's late approval of the feasibility study
because of a moratorium on new thermal power plant construction (Section 2.2c) after the
East Asia financial crisis. During commissioning, unforeseen system interface problems
related to the instrumentation and control also necessitated additional supplier coordination


3  SO2 emissions from WGQ II (36,800 ton/year) were well within Chinese National Standards and World
   Bank guidelines so no FGD equipment was required. However, Shanghai Municipality environmental
   regulations specified that FGD units be installed at all new thermal power plants. By applying the bubble
   concept, it was determined that FGD at SDK would afford the greatest net SO2 reductions (9,910 tons/year)
   at the least cost (about a third of the cost of installing FGD at WGQ II). The mayor of Shanghai supported
   this approach and a waiver was provided.
4  SO2 reduction at WGQ I was estimated to be about 29 percent of the envisioned reduction at SDK. Actual
   cost was about 67 percent of the original estimated base cost. Total net SO2 reduction, including low sulfur
   coal usage at SDK, was about 9,275 tons/year (or about 94 percent of the original scheme).


                                                          3

and performance testing (Section 5.2b). As a result, loan closing was extended by 11 months
to December 31, 2006.

Project Cost: The final project cost amounted to US$1,274.8 million, about 13 percent higher
than the baseline cost, plus taxes at appraisal of US$1,438.0 million (Annex 1(a)). The
equipment cost was about 15 percent lower than estimated at appraisal.5 The cost of land
acquisition for the power plant and access roads was about half the estimate of appraisal
because of improved layout in detailed design (Section 2.4). However, this was partly offset
by higher civil work expenditures that were about 90 percent higher than estimated at
appraisal. The lower equipment cost was mainly attributable to lower equipment prices
(caused by a decline in worldwide demand after the East Asia financial crisis), a larger
proportion of local content than initially envisioned, and efficient construction management.
The civil work increase was a result of price escalation and, more importantly, more difficult
than envisaged foundation layout. Therefore, the contingencies were not used, and the
financing needs were adjusted during implementation.

Project Financing:        Actual financing needs amounted to US$1,345.3 million, about 29
percent lower than envisaged at appraisal. Because of the lower than expected boiler and
turbine prices, the Bank loan was used to cover more equipment than envisaged, including the
instrumentation and control (I&C) and ash handling packages. The undisbursed balance of
about US$27.4 million of the original US$400.0 million Bank loan was cancelled upon
closure. The modified FGD component also resulted in a reduced need for parallel financing
(footnote 4 and Annex 1(b)).

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

The PDOs were in line with two themes of the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)--
infrastructure development and environmental protection. Project components were designed
to directly address the main sector issues identified. Findings and recommendations of the
sector study, Strategic Options in Power Sector Reform in China (1993), and the sector report,
China Power Sector Reform: Towards Competition and Improved Performance (1994), were
taken into consideration. The lessons learned from earlier operations were incorporated into
the project design through a better focus on project management, improved environment and
resettlement studies during project preparation, stronger engagement of the borrower to
ensure commitment to reform, and particular attention to the specification of coal quality in
boiler design.

The project included several innovative elements that were piloted for the first time in China:
(a) introduction of large supercritical coal-fired thermal generation units to improve coal use
and fuel efficiency, reduce investment cost through economies of scale, and reduce
environmental impacts; (b) piloting of the bubble concept for cost effective environmental
protection; and (c) securing loans from diverse sources to finance large infrastructure projects.

5   If contingencies are considered, the total project cost would be about 23 percent lower than estimated at
    appraisal.


                                                       4

Funding from an existing Technical Cooperation Credit was used to hire international
consultants to carry out a comprehensive feasibility study according to best international and
industry practice to ensure the technical soundness of the project in 1996. Prior to the loan
approval, international engineering consultants were also engaged to assist with design
finalization, procurement, engineering, and design interface coordination.          Government
commitment and the sense of ownership on the part of implementing agencies were very high.
The Bank's safeguard policies on Involuntary Resettlement and Environmental Assessment
were appropriately applied. At appraisal, four major categories of risk (electricity demand,
pricing, costs, and operational performance) were identified and assessed. Overall risk was
considered modest and manageable. Assumptions and risk mitigation measures were clearly
spelled out in the SAR.

Quality at entry is considered satisfactory. Two Quality Assessment Group (QAG) reviews of
supervision quality in 1998 and 2006 rated the quality at entry as highly satisfactory.

2.2     Implementation

The 1997­98 East Asian financial crisis affected the project in several ways: (a) equipment
prices were lower due to a worldwide decline in demand; (b) deterioration in market
conditions made it more difficult to list power generation companies on stock exchanges
(Section 3.2c); and (c) the government reacted to a temporary slowdown in electricity demand
in 1999/2000 with a moratorium on new thermal power construction. The latter stalled the
procurement of equipment and caused major difficulties in contract management. This
delayed government approvals and the effectiveness of the project.

The SMEPC and WPGC were proactive in minimizing the impact of the delay on the project
implementation. They took the following actions: (a) delegations visited the Bank to clarify
and resolve approval and procurement issues expeditiously prior to project effectiveness; (b)
with support from the Shanghai Municipal government, the agency took risks and started
construction preparation and civil works to the extent permissible prior to securing all
government approvals; and (c) once construction resumed, the project team was reinforced
with special focus on contract management, construction scheduling and cost control. As a
result of these efforts, the two-year delay was reduced by about six months.

In the two QAG reviews of supervision (2001 and 2006) mentioned earlier, quality of
supervision was twice assessed as highly satisfactory (Section 5.1b).

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project was prepared in 1997 before the introduction of the log-frame approach or the
results framework. Nevertheless, achievement of the PDOs and project performance were
monitored according to quantifiable performance indicators developed during project
preparation, and confirmed after the introduction of the Logical Framework approach in
August 1997. These indicators were regularly monitored and evaluated against the baseline
and target values. As the operating environment evolved, some indicators were modified



                                                5

(Sections 1.2­1.3) with continued focus on PDO achievement. In addition, implementation of
the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was regularly monitored by the implementing
agencies and an independent environmental institute.       Periodic reports were reviewed,
evaluated, and followed up on by the Bank during supervision missions. The financial
performance of the SMEPC and WPGC and their compliance with the financial covenants and
reporting requirements were also regularly monitored (Section 3.3).

M&E considerations were also incorporated in the design of all management, financial, and
operation systems developed by the implementing agencies, such as the Enterprise Resources
Planning (ERP) system in the SMEPC and the operation control and continuous
environmental monitoring in the WPGC.          Indicators are regularly used to monitor all
operational, environmental and efficiency aspects of the power sector in the Shanghai
Municipality.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Resettlement: Resettlement activities were implemented in a highly satisfactory manner and
in accordance with the approved Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Shanghai Municipality
regulations. For the WGQ II site, resettlement involved relocation of 327 households totaling
about 1,000 people, 16 work units, and 16 enterprises. One substation involved displacement
of 11 households and economic rehabilitation of 94 farmers. Final land acquisition was 34
percent below the RAP because of the reduced need for construction area. Follow-up surveys
conducted by an external monitoring team confirmed that land acquisition and resettlement
had followed relevant national laws and municipal regulations, and were consistent with Bank
policy. At project completion, all affected people and entities had been able to restore or
improve upon their previous living and economic conditions.

Environment: The WPGC carried out the EMP in a satisfactory manner. The specified
mitigating requirements were fully implemented. All fly ash and slag from WGQ II were
being used for cement manufacture or building materials. Performance of both the dust
collection system and the low NOx burners exceeded the requirements set forth in the EMP.
The FGD at WGQ I was operating at or above the design efficiency of 90 percent. All
gypsum byproduct was sold. All in all, the bubble concept proved to be beneficial from both
the environmental and economic points of view. However, the WPGC did not install and
operate its own air quality monitoring equipment as planned. Instead, in 2002 the firm
arranged for the Shanghai Municipality Environmental Monitoring Center to provide data
semiannually from three existing monitoring stations. Data from 2003 through 2005 indicate
little change in air quality that can be attributed to the operation of WGQ II. While not
optimal, this approach serves the environmental monitoring purpose sought by the Bank.

Procurement: At project inception, a procurement management group was established within
the SMEPC to facilitate preparatory activities. Procurement was effectively organized and
carried out in compliance with Bank guidelines. The implementing agencies were effective in
overcoming contract management difficulties during the moratorium and interfacing issues at
commissioning (Sections 2.2 and 5.1b). The Bank's oversight and close involvement in all
phases, including two procurement-focused missions, helped in ensuring the transparency of



                                               6

the process and contributed to the owner's ability to procure state-of-the-art technology at
very competitive prices.

Financial Management: The SMEPC and WPGC maintained dedicated accounts for the
project, and prepared project and corporate financial statements semiannually. Annual audit
reports were submitted to the Bank on time. Minor discrepancies because of a time lag in
recording were diligently followed up on and promptly reconciled. Thorough ex post review
of project accounts and audits confirmed that financial management of the project funds was
sound and adequate.

2.5     Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

At project completion, WGQ II had been in commercial operation for more than a year. The
company's technical, managerial, and financial performance during the first year (refer to the
indicators and financial statement summary in Annex 3B) is indicative of the sound and
efficient operation of the power plant: the company met or exceeded all technical and
financial indicators (except for one, as explained in Annex 2). Transition arrangements to
commercial operation were sound and comprehensive, covering operation and maintenance
and fuel purchase. All operational manuals and maintenance procedures were in place, and
they were consistent with international best practice and manufacturers' recommendations.
Training and career development of management and technical staff were given special
attention to improve the company's competitive edge in the emerging East china Power
Market. The WPGC intends to maintain the project M&E system that has been in use since
2005.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Rating of Relevance: High

Despite a different global context including the East Asian financial crisis and its aftermath,
shifting government priorities, and a restructured power sector, the PDOs remain highly
relevant at completion. The project is directly linked to three of the five themes stated in the
2006 Country Partnership Strategy:        (a) managing resource scarcity and environmental
challenges; (b) financing sustained and efficient growth; and (c) improving public and market
institutions. It is also compliant with the Bank's social and environmental safeguard policies
and fiduciary requirements prevailing at the time of project completion. As climate change
concerns grow, investment in efficient coal power plant has become even more important in
the current global context.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory




                                               7

The project substantially met all PDOs.             It succeeded in building efficient and
environmentally friendly facilities to help meet soaring demand, and introduced a new
conceptual framework--the "bubble concept"--for efficiently building new capacity while
minimizing environmental impact. While serving as a pilot for restructuring and expanding
the power sector, the project also succeeded in implementing an innovative financing model.
Specific accomplishments included the following:

   (a) Reductions in Acute Power Shortages in Shanghai:            Two 900 MW coal-fired
       supercritical thermal units and associated 500 kV transmission lines and substation
       were successfully constructed. All facilities have been functioning satisfactorily since
       commissioning in 2004.         During the summers of 2004­06, WGQ II's share of
       electricity generated in the Shanghai area was 15.2 percent, 13.5 percent, and 12.2
       percent, respectively.     In 2006, electricity generated by WGQII represented 9.5
       percent of the peak load of the Shanghai grid, significantly reducing load shedding
       from the baseline 14.5 percent in 1995 to 1.3 percent in 2006. Units 1 and 2 achieved
       2006 availability rates of 90.7 percent and 83.9 percent respectively, in the first case
       exceeding the 85 percent benchmark set as an end-of-project target, and in the second
       case nearly matching the target. The average coal consumption in 2006 was 296.2
       gce/kWh, almost meeting the benchmark of 295. (More detail on the achievement of
       all PDOs is found in Annex 2.)

   (b) A Demonstration of the Bubble Concept in Shanghai: The bubble concept to reduce
       SO2 emissions in the most cost-effective manner (footnote 1) was successfully piloted
       through the installation of FGD facilities at WGQ I and use of lower sulfur content
       coal in SDK. Two wet limestone FGD units were installed at WGQ I, with both now
       in successful commercial operation. By utilizing coal with lower sulfur content in
       Shidongkou, and by installation of FGDs in WGQ I, the project achieved a combined
       reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions of about 46,075 tons per year, which more than
       offset the annual sulfur dioxide emissions released from WGQ II.

   (c) Support for a Restructuring of the SMEPC, an Increase in Private Sector Investment
       through Public Listing, and a Tariff Adjustment to Accommodate Stricter SO2
       Emission Standards: The SMEPC was successfully restructured in line with the
       national power sector reform strategy. By project completion, the company had
       transferred its government functions and divested its generation assets to become a
       business oriented municipal power company focused on transmission, distribution, and
       dispatch in the Shanghai area.          Moreover, the WPGC was established as an
       independent power generation company operating on a commercial basis.               The
       project's TA facilitated the reforms and helped both companies build their institutional
       capacity and be prepared to operate in the commercial and gradually increasing
       competitive environment (Section 3.5b). The role of TA provided under the project in
       facilitating sector restructuring is described in Annex 2f.

       Deteriorating international market conditions resulting from the East Asian financial
       crisis affected the project in several ways: (a) during project preparation, it was
       assumed that a more open market and improved institutional environment would spur



                                                 8

       private involvement in the sector. Although the institutional environment improved
       significantly and Shanghai has sizeable private sector involvement, private investment
       did not increase as expected because of the reduced involvement of the private sector
       in power on a global scale; and (b) the envisioned direct listing of several divested
       generation companies on foreign stock markets was postponed and ultimately
       cancelled as China moved toward listing larger and financially stronger companies
       instead of individual power plants. In the case of the WPGC, this objective was
       indirectly achieved through partial listing of its three shareholding companies.

   (d) Promotion of an Innovative and Diversified Financing Model for Large Infrastructure
       Projects and Improved Access on the Part of Power Entities to International Financial
       Markets: The project successfully piloted an innovative financing model for a large
       infrastructure investment in China's power sector. In contrast to previous Bank
       projects, international private commercial parallel financing was secured without Bank
       or government guarantee, giving the utility access to financial markets on the strength
       of its balance sheet. Parallel financing included an export credit of US$131 million
       from ABN Amro for the turbine generator contract; and a loan of about US$34 million
       from JBIC for the WGQ I FGD units.

   (e) Fulfillment of Performance Indicators: With regard to key performance indicators,
       the project performed in an excellent manner. As shown in the Results Framework
       Analysis in the project datasheet, the seven performance targets (after one indicator
       was formally dropped) were met. The higher coal consumption by 0.4 percent and the
       lower availability of the second unit by 1.3 percent are not significant and well within
       acceptable measurement discrepancies:

           · The project exceeded the target in two cases;
           · The project met the target in an additional three cases;
           · The project achieved 99.6 percent of the target in one case; and
           · In the final case, Waigaoqiao Unit 1 achieved 100 percent of the target, and
               Unit 2 achieved 98.7 percent.

3.3    Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

Economic Analysis. A least-cost expansion study covering the period 1997­2028 identified
the project as the first investment of an optimal development program. A cost-benefit
analysis was done to complement the cost-effectiveness approach, with assumptions on tariffs
based on prevailing power generation pricing policies. The calculation yielded an internal
economic rate of return (IERR) of 19.3 percent (or 18.2 percent with FGD at SDK). Using a
similar methodology, a re-estimation at project completion yielded an IERR of 25.9 percent
(or 20.7 percent with FGD at WGQ I). The main reasons for the increase were higher than
projected average electricity price in the municipality and expected longer hours of operation
(Annex 3: Part A).




                                                9

Cost Comparisons: Unit cost for WGQ II (including costs of connection to the power grid
and FGD at WGQ I) was estimated to be US$747/kW installed. It compares favorably with
data provided by the suppliers for other countries:          US$1,400/kW in Germany and
US$1,060/kW in the United States for a similar coal-fired unit with FGD.

Financial Analysis: The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project was not estimated at
appraisal. Instead, financial assessment focused on the viability of the SMEPC (and later the
WPGC) and the companies' compliance with the financial covenants. Performance of the
implementing agencies is summarized below and detailed in Annex 3(B).

The SMEPC: Financial covenants included (a) debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.5
at all times; (b) rate of return on equity of no less than 8 percent for 1998 and 1999, 10
percent for 2000 and 2001, 12 percent for 2002 and 2003, and 15 percent for 2004 and
thereafter; (c) submission of annual audit reports; and (d) annual submission of rolling eight-
year financial projections. All covenants were substantially met with the exception of (b).
Anomalies in sector accounting practices, such as understatement of revenue and a short
amortization period, compared to the economic or technical life of most equipment distorted
the rate of return on equity. After the 2002 unbundling, the impact became more significant,
since the generally more profitable generation assets were divested. The covenanted returns
on equity became too high compared to returns generally adopted for grid utilities. When the
SMEPC decided to transfer the entire loan to the WPGC, the covenant was no longer relevant
and the Bank agreed to drop it. However, the Project Agreement was not amended until the
restructuring of the sector was completed in 2005.

The WPGC: The first full year of operation of WGQ II was 2005. This coincided with the
time frame of the financial covenants agreed under the new PA: (a) debt service coverage
ratio of 1.1 for 2005, 1.3 for 2006, and 1.5 for 2007 and thereafter; (b) annual submission of
audit reports; and (b) annual submission of eight-year rolling financial projections. At project
completion, the provisional power sale price to the grid was adequate. For 2005 and 2006,
operation revenue covered the full cost of operation, maintenance, depreciation, and financing
charges; and generated net income of about US$91 million and US$67 million, respectively.
According to the latest projections for 2006­13, the WPGC is expected to remain financially
viable. All covenants had been met in full during the first two years and are expected to be
met in the foreseeable future. With a high depreciation rate of 7.7 percent, the average FRR
on equity was estimated to be 11.3 percent over the projection period.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Rating is based on (a) high relevance of original PDOs and design at the time of the ICR; (b)
substantial achievement of PDOs; and (c) generally high efficiency, as stated above and
detailed in Annex 3B.




                                              10

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project did not have an explicit poverty reduction theme. However, its contribution to
continued high economic growth in Shanghai is believed to have contributed to decreased
poverty and increased government revenue for social programs. The extensive construction
activities also provided job opportunities for laborers. The Shanghai Municipality GDP more
than doubled during 1995­2005. The government social programs to ease the impacts of
price increases on the poor grew substantially between 1995 and 2005. According to the 2006
Shanghai Statistics Year Book, during the period 1995­2005, the social benefit program was
expanded and coverage increased from about 30,000 to about 500,000.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Through TA, training, and interaction with high-caliber consultants at the preparation stage
and with top international equipment suppliers at the construction stage, the implementing
agencies' capacity to coordinate and manage very complex operations was considerably
enhanced.     The project's success also appeared to have stimulated strong interest in
replication.   At project completion, about a dozen similar generation units, including a
subsequent phase of development at the WGQ site, were under various stages of preparation
and construction.

With the restructuring of the sector and the separation of generation from grid ownership, the
reform process achieved momentum and Shanghai is now part of the East China regional
competitive power market.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Through active participation in various aspects of project preparation, implementation, and
operation, SMEPC and WPGC staff acquired extensive knowledge and also gained practical
experience and problem-solving skills.         By means of various internal and external
reassignments and promotions, the knowledge gained was effectively disseminated. Over
time, the project, along with several other Bank-assisted power projects at around the same
time, was seen as an "incubator" for a new generation of leaders in the sector.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.




                                               11

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

At project completion, WGQ II had been successfully operated by competent staff for more
than a year. The new technology proved to be reliable, efficient, and environmentally sound.
Electricity demand in the Shanghai­East China region continued to grow rapidly. The
provisionally agreed tariff was sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs, provide
for depreciation and debt service, and generate sizable profits for the WPGC (Annex 3.b.).
The SMEPC considered the results of the ERP system satisfactory and supportive of its
strategic goals. At the macro level, economic, government, and power sector commitment to
reform remained strong. Hence, overall risk to the development outcomes was considered
very low.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was consistent with the CAS objectives and the government's development
strategy and sector priority. It was responsive to the soaring demand for electricity in the
Shanghai area. During preparation, the project team assisted the borrower in designing the
project to meet the Bank's technical, financial, economic, and fiduciary standards. It also
helped design a TA and training program to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
implementing agencies. Implementation arrangements and M&E were discussed in detail and
agreed. The risk assessment was sound and the proposed mitigating measures adequate. The
project's reform aspects benefited from the Bank's extensive work in China's power sector
according to the so-called dual-track approach using lending projects to further
implementation of sector reforms and institutional changes within a framework developed
through policy dialogue. A competent appraisal team was assembled to cover all aspects of
project preparation including economics, energy, engineering, finance, legal, power sector
restructuring, resettlement, and environment.     Working relationships with implementing
agencies were based on mutual respect and constructive dialogue. As stated in Section 2.1,
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory (rated as highly satisfactory by
the QAG in Quality of Supervision Assessment 2 (QSA2) and QSA7).




                                              12

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Early supervision focused on procurement, particularly with regard to the complex two-stage
bidding for major equipment. Subsequently the supervision team monitored technical issues
related to construction, testing, and commissioning, and kept close tabs on remedial actions
taken by suppliers and contractors to address interface problems. Implementation of the EMP
and RAP were regularly monitored. In addition, the team closely followed a wide range of
policy and institutional issues related to sector unbundling, tariff reforms, sourcing and
pricing of coal, and air quality monitoring. The team also closely monitored financial
performance of the SMEPC and WPGC, and reviewed the appropriateness of financial
covenants in light of a changing operating environment and prevailing accounting practices.
As circumstances changed, the Bank showed flexibility with regard to reallocation of loan
proceeds, modification of financial covenants, and adoption of alternative approach to
implementation of the FGD and TA components.             The working relationship with the
Borrower and implementing agencies was harmonious, and assistance was provided in a
timely manner.

The quality of supervision was twice reviewed by the QAG and both times rated highly
satisfactory.    In the August 2006 review, Focus on Development Effectiveness and
Supervision Inputs and Processes were rated highly satisfactory, while Fiduciary Safeguards
and Candor and Quality of ISR were rated satisfactory. The review panel found supervision
to be pragmatic, well focused, and solutions-oriented, and relations with the borrower were
highly effective, given that China no longer needed Bank financing. While the supervision
team had consistently rated project implementation satisfactory, the QAG panel felt the
reports might have at times understated the successes made, and recommended that some
ratings be upgraded.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Quality at entry and quality of supervision were both satisfactory, so Bank performance
overall is also rated satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Central Government:        The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the State Development and
Planning Commission (currently the National Development and Reform Commission)
supported the project design, and showed strong commitment by attending critical preparation



                                              13

missions. The MOF also supported the SMEPC in securing private sector financing, and was
effective in coordinating activities of the various financial institutions. By contrast, the
government's delay in clearing the project's feasibility study, and the moratorium on
construction thereafter, caused delays of about two years (Sections 2.2 and 3.4). Because of
this shortcoming, central government performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

Shanghai Municipal and Local Governments: The Shanghai Municipal government was very
supportive of the project, particularly in resolving issues related to the moratorium. The
government's pragmatism and openness to new ideas and its flexibility in accommodating the
site selection for FGD installation contributed to the successful piloting of the bubble concept.
Local authorities actively participated in the formulation of the RAP and EMP, and were
diligent and cooperative during implementation. Government performance at this level is
rated satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The SMEPC and WPGC were highly committed to achieving the PDOs, as evidenced by the
establishment of a strong steering committee to coordinate project preparation. In addition,
the transfer of project ownership and implementation responsibilities was carried out without
disruption. The SMEPC and WPGC were proactive in dealing with the startup delays and the
associated complex procurement issues (Section 2.2).                       During construction, their close
attention to all aspects of the project enabled them to identify and resolve issues promptly.
Most notably, the WPGC was very effective in resolving an interface issue. Their efforts
resulted in a design modification to strengthen the boiler structure and agreement with the
supplier to implement them. Further during plant commissioning, the WPGC successfully
coordinated and oversaw the discussions and actions of the suppliers to overcome complex
I&C interfacing issues. As a result, the project was able to make up for some time lost and
stay well within budget and experience gained was effectively applied during construction of
the second unit. Other project components were also implemented competently, and all
fiduciary safeguards were complied with and nearly all financial covenants were met (Section
2.2­2.3). Transition arrangements for regular operation were completed more than a year
prior to loan closing. M&E arrangements were comprehensive and operational and financial
performance has been excellent--a level that is expected to be maintained through the plant's
lifetime.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Implementation was excellent except for the delays in project startup, and project
completion.6 Given the rating of central government performance as moderately satisfactory,
the performance of municipal and local governments was rated satisfactory, and the

6   The government's prudent approach for not approving new coal-fired projects in the aftermath of the Asia
    financial crisis is understandable, given the impact of the crisis on neighboring countries.


                                                        14

performance of the implementing agencies highly satisfactory, overall borrower performance
is rated satisfactory.

6.      Lessons Learned

(a) Specific to the Power Sector in China

Physical Implementation: Key factors contributing to the successful implementation of a very
complex project are (i) strong borrower commitment; (ii) comprehensive planning for
engineering, equipment supply, installation, and commissioning; and (iii) close field
supervision by a competent owner that identified and rectified problems in a timely manner
(Section 5.2b). These essentials should be given special attention in future projects.

Construction Management:        The implementing agencies' in-house specialists managed
construction efficiently, with only limited assistance from international consultants. Using
external support on an as-needed basis proved to be cost-effective for the owner (as compared
to the original plan of using international consultants for the entire task). This project and
other recently completed power projects in China show that construction management was
successfully performed by the implementing agencies. Any future Bank project should give
technically strong and experienced implementing agencies appropriate consideration and
more responsibilities in the design of engineering and construction management TA.

Investment Planning: Lead time for construction of very large thermal power generation
projects requires a long planning horizon. Short-term power demand fluctuations (such as the
one that prompted the government moratorium) should not be allowed to influence the long-
term development plan.

(b) Of General Application

A Pilot Project Can Be a Successful Means of Furthering Reform: The project was explicitly
designed to pilot new approaches to meet environmental requirements at minimum cost,
restructuring the power sector, and utilizing private sector finance. Piloting has been the
feature characteristic of Chinese reforms. It could also be extended to countries where
commitment to reform is strong, but where governments are wary about disruption.

Project Supervision: Several positive, systemic lessons for Bank supervision were identified
in the QAG review: (a) an experienced, knowledgeable, and cohesive team is beneficial to
project implementation; (b) continuity is important in ensuring effective supervision and
establishing good rapport with counterparts; and (c) supervision of multiple projects in the
same country or sector by the same team is cost-effective. The China energy team should
continue to apply such principles in more recent projects. The approach could also be
extended for supervision of energy projects on a regional basis.

Procurement: For very large and complex projects, separate packaging of goods can foster
competition and contribute to lower bid prices and a lower final cost. However, this approach
demands major effort and time from the implementing agencies, particularly in resolving



                                              15

inevitable conflicts and problems with interface (Section 5b), and is only possible if there is
strong in-house capacity. In procurement packaging, a proper balance between potential price
advantages and risk is critical.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The SMEPC and WPGC agree with the content of this ICR.              They did not raise any
substantive issues. A summary of the agencies' input is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

The Japan Bank of International Cooperation, which financed the FGD component, in parallel
to the Bank loan, did not provide comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                             16

                               Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)
                                          Appraisal Estimate
              Components                       (USD M)          Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                                             (US$ million)            (USD M)1/

Preparatory Works                                     1.9                 18.4                  9672/
Land Acquisition and Compensation                    58.2                 29.0                    50
Civil Works                                        149.4                282.2                    189
Traffic Works                                        49.9                 18.1                    36
Construction Management                              65.8                 38.9                    59
Plant Equipment and Materials                      761.7                649.2                     85
Transmission Line                                    65.2                158.4                  2433/
FGD and Environmental Protection
Equipment                                            77.3                 51.9                    67

Engineering Services                                  2.5                 20.7                  8304/
Environmental Protection                             0.04                  0.04                  102
Technical Assistance                                  5.0                  5.6                   111
Training                                              2.8                  2.5                    89
                   Total Baseline Cost           1,239.9               1,274.8                   103
Physical Contingencies                               83.6                  ­                      ­
Price Contingencies                                135.0                   ­                      ­
Taxes and Duties                                   198.1                   ­                      ­
                   Total Project Costs           1,656.6               1274.8                     77
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                    ­                   ­                       ­
Front-end fee IBRD                                    ­                    ­                      ­
Interest During Construction                       241.4                  70.5                    29
             Total Financing Required            1,898.0               1,345.3                    71


Note:
1/ Component cost includes contingencies, taxes and duties.
2/ Scope increased as some preparatory works were previously categorized under civil works. Local labor and
    material costs increased.
3/ Appraisal estimate includes only costs of imported materials and equipment, actual cost includes goods,
    works and services that were entirely financed from the SMEPC's internal sources.
4/ Includes fees for design not included in appraisal estimates.

(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds                   Type of                                          Percentage of
                                           Cofinancing        Estimate          Estimate
                                                           (US$ million)      (US$ million)      Appraisal

SMEPC and WPGC                               Local loan         998.0             807.37             81
IBRD                                                            400.0             372.6              93

Parallel financing                          Export Credit                         130.96
                                           Bilateral Loan       500.0             34.37              33

                                                                1,898.0           1345.3             71




                                                      17

                             Annex 2: Outputs by Component

(a) Construction of China's first two 900 MW Coal-fired Supercritical Thermal Units

Two 900 MW coal-fired supercritical thermal power units were installed in WGQ II. The
first unit was commissioned in April 2004, and the second unit commissioned in September
2004. Units 1 and 2 reached commercial operation in November 2004 and May 2005,
respectively.     Although the project experienced a one-and-a-half-year delay with
implementation, the construction and commissioning of the WGQ II were highly successful
and its final cost low by international standards. The quality of construction and installation
works was excellent. Start-up problems, associated with the very sophisticated supercritical
boilers and turbine units and their instrumentation and control, were encountered during the
test period. They were resolved in a satisfactory and timely manner. Both turbines/generators
and boilers reached all technical performance and guarantee indices.          Both units are
performing well. Since commissioning, cumulative generation of the two units has reached
26,364 GWh, of which 10,800 GWh were generated in 2006. For the year of 2006, Units 1
and 2 achieved availability rates of 90.7 percent and 83.9 percent, respectively. Availability
rate Unit 1 exceeded the benchmark of 85 percent set for end-of-project target, and
availability rate of Unit 2 was close to the benchmark. The small shortfall was a result of a
major planned maintenance in 2006, the first one since commissioning and which is within
accepted measurement discrepancies. The forced outage rate was only 0.045 percent for Unit
1, and 0 percent for Unit 2, indicating that the operational management is adequate and the
unit condition is highly satisfactory. The plant load factor in 2006 of WGQ II was 78 percent
mainly a result of system constraints; consequently, the average plant coal consumption in
2006 was 296.2 gce/kWh, which is slightly higher than the benchmark target of 295 (but
within accepted measurement discrepancies). There is potential for improvement of the plant
load factor and the average coal consumption if the system dispatching is improved.

(b) Installation of two Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) Units at Waigaoqiao Phase I
power plant

Two wet limestone FGD units were installed at WGQ I, which provided part of the reduction
of sulfur dioxide emissions under the bubble concept. Both units are now in successful
commercial operation.      The use of lower sulfur content coal in Shidongkou and the
installation of the FGDs in WGQ I resulted in a combined reduction of sulfur dioxide
emissions of about 46,075 tons per year, which more than offset the annual sulfur dioxide
emissions released from WGQ II.

(c) Construction of two 500 kV transmission lines (2 circuits x 50 km) with Associated
Substation

The transmission component, including the 500 kV Gulu substation (2x1000MVA) and the
500 kV double circuits Yanhang­Waigaoqiao­Yanggao line (55 km), was put into
commercial operation in March 2004. The goal to complete the transmission component
ahead of commissioning of the WGQ II units was achieved. The transmission lines and
associated substation have since performed normally and were capable of evacuating the full



                                              18

power from the WGQ II. In addition, the added transmission lines completed the double-
circuit ring connection in the Shanghai area and significantly improved the reliability of
power supply.

(d) Construction Management and Engineering Services

Consulting services for engineering and construction management were provided jointly by
local and international consultants. The services contributed significantly to the sound design
of the project and to adequately resolving all construction and startup problems during early
stages of operation in a timely manner. Since the project was the first one with a design for
very large coal-fired supercritical thermal units in China, the consultants' participation
contributed considerably in the project preparation stage to the detailed design, finalization of
technical specifications, and procurement activities for the main plant equipment, and in the
construction stage to the interfacing management, construction scheduling, quality control,
and information documentation. The expert services of the major plant equipment suppliers
also provided valuable TA on installation supervision of major plant equipment and on timely
resolving startup problems during commissioning and initial operation. As a result, the
completed power plant met very high quality standards.

(e) Technical Assistance for Implementation of Modern Accounting and Financial
Management System

According to the original TA component, the SMEPC was to carry out accounting and
financial management (A/FM) systems studies and implement the recommended
organizational improvements and systems. Following the company's restructuring, the scope
of the TA was modified and expanded to cover the implementation of an integrated Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) system.          The company's decision to develop its financial
management information system as an integral part of an ERP system was a carefully
considered and well-justified one. The process and phased implementation took longer than
envisaged because (a) it has been scheduled to meet the government reform agenda and (b)
the ERP system was far more complex to design and implement. The SMEPC indicated that
the systematic approach of the ERP has enhanced budget preparation and control, centralized
billing and reconciliation, and construction management. It also helped eliminate delays and
duplications and strengthened internal control and information flow. The resulting centralized
real-time database also made record-keeping, data retrieval, statistical analysis, and reporting
internally consistent, traceable, and timely. The system that went beyond the objectives
sought during project preparation was considered instrumental in ascertaining the company's
operational efficiency and enabling it to utilize its human and financial resources better. After
more than one full year of operation, the SMEPC considered the results satisfactory and
supportive of its strategic development goals. The sustainability of these development results
is highly likely.

(f) Technical Assistance for Implementation of the Sector Restructuring

TA was provided to the SMEPC. The SMEPC was successfully restructured to meet the
national power sector reform program promulgated by the government in 2002, focusing on



                                                19

separation of generation from transmission and distribution.            The SMEPC has been
restructured into a municipal power company engaged in transmission, distribution, and
dispatch in the Shanghai area. A competitive power market has been developed for the East
China Region, including Shanghai Municipality. The SMEPC is now moving toward a fully
market-oriented commercial entity. Most of the generation assets of the SMEPC were
transferred to already-listed generation companies, and some were divested and partly listed
on the Shanghai stock market. WGQII was transferred to the newly established the WPGC.
All assets financed under the project, along with all project-related obligations, have been
transferred from the SMEPC to the WPGC. During project preparation, it was assumed that a
more open market and adequate institutional environment would spur private sector
involvement in the sector. Although the institutional environment improved significantly and
Shanghai is one of China's regions with sizable private sector involvement, private
investment did not increase as expected because of the reduced involvement of the private
sector in the power sector on a global scale for reasons beyond the scope of this project.

(g) Management Development and Training

The management development and training program under the project was designed to
enhance the SMEPC's and WPGC's managerial, legal, technical, and financial capabilities in
order to support WGQ II construction and restructuring of the SMEPC and WPGC in line
with the power sector reform strategy. From the first half of 2000 to early 2005, the SMEPC
has carried out a series of overseas and domestic training for management and staff (including
power market planning and reform, utility executive training, financial management, and
human resource management), and project-related training for technical personnel. As of the
end of August 2005, a total of 1,008 staff-months of training were provided for management
and staff, which enabled the SMEPC and WPGC to keep pace with its rapidly expanding
requirement for highly skilled human resources.         The successful implementation of the
program achieved the objectives to (a) strengthen the capability of specialized staff in the
SMEPC and WPGC at the professional and operational levels for the newly founded
transmission company; (b) build up sufficient high-quality, in-house technical staff to cover
the needs of construction and operation of China's first 900 MW coal-fired supercritical
thermal units; (c) develop commercial arrangement for market operation in Shanghai area;
and (d) improve financial management and corporate restructuring of the SMEPC and WPGC.
The implementation of the comprehensive manpower development program contributed
significantly not only to meet the needs of the SMEPC's and WPGC's new structure and new
responsibilities, but also made both entities attractive for the best professionals, thus keeping
the quality of staff at a high level.




                                               20

                         Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

A.     Economic Analysis

The economic analysis of Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project was conducted at appraisal to
justify its economic viability. Two steps were followed. First, a least-cost generation
expansion study was carried out using an optimization model that determines the optimal
capacity and generation mix to meet the demand at the minimum cost. Second, a cost-benefit
analysis was carried out to complement the cost-effectiveness approach. The calculation
yielded an IERR of 19.3 percent when environmental benefits were not incorporated, or 18.2
percent when environmental benefits were incorporated. Using the same methodology, the
IERR were recalculated at the time of ICR and were found to be higher than estimated during
project preparation, even if the coal price increased from Y 372/tce to Y 490/tce at
completion: 25.9 percent without incorporation of environmental benefits, or 20.7 percent
with incorporation of environmental benefits. The increase is mainly caused by (a) a higher
average electricity price in the Shanghai Municipality: Y 0.501/kWh (defined as the sales
tariff minus the transmission tariff) compared with Y 0.47/kWh used at appraisal; and (b)
better utilization of generation capacity at 7,000 annual utilization hours, compared with
5,570 hours at appraisal because Chinese power systems are making progress towards
economic dispatch.

              Table A3.1. IERR Calculation of Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project (ICR)
 Year     Generation                             Project Cost                            Benefits           Net Benefits
                        Capital Cost            Operation Cost          Total Cost
                                             O&M             Fuel
          GWh           ---------------------------------------million yuan-------------------------------------

   1996             0            5.80                               0           5.80                   0            -5.80
   1997             0          14.65                                0          14.65                   0           -14.65
   1998             0          40.82                                0          40.82                   0           -40.82
   1999             0         320.01                                0        320.01                    0         -320.01
   2000             0         586.86                                0        586.86                    0         -586.86
   2001             0         795.02                                0        795.02                    0         -795.02
   2002             0       2,502.78                                0      2,502.78                    0        -2,502.78
   2003             0       2,849.36                                0      2,849.36                    0        -2,849.36
   2004        4,632.8      3,048.30          506.37          637.68       4,192.35           2,321.01          -1,871.34
   2005      10,593.5         236.21          345.08        1,622.03       2,203.32           5,307.32           3,104.00
   2006      10,439.4         215.29          675.93        1,519.52       2,410.74           5,230.12           2,819.38
   2007      10,800.0                         318.45        1,566.43       1,884.88           5,410.80           3,525.92
   2008      12,600.0                         318.45        1,827.50       2,145.96           6,312.60           4,166.64
  2009-
   2028      12,600.0                         318.45        1,827.50       2,145.96           6,312.60           4,166.64
 Total       299,355.6     10,615.09                       43,475.23      62,623.67        149,977.14          87,353.47

 NPV 2006                  15,671.55                       17,682.60      37,486.21         60,878.35          23,392.13
 Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) =                    25.9%




                                                         21

Main assumptions:

        Annual Utilization Hours          7000      after 2010
        Willingness to Pay (Y/kWh)        0.501     (VAT excluded)
        O&M Cost                          3.0%      of capital cost
        Coal Price                        490.0     Y/tce
        Coal Consumption Rate             296.0     gce/kWh
        Discount Rate                     0.12


The sensitivity and risk analysis were conducted at ICR to test the robustness of the project's
economic rationality, following the same methodology adopted at appraisal.

Sensitivity Analysis

For the base case which the environmental benefits (negative in this project) were not
incorporated, the IERR would decrease to the test discount rate of 12 percent, in the case of
one of the following occurrences: (a) the coal price increases by 170 percent, at Y 1,320/tce;
(b) the electricity sales price decreases by 38 percent, at Y 0.378/kWh (VAT included,
compared with current sales price of Y 0.610/kWh); and (c) the power plant operation is
reduced to about 2,100 hours.

For the case with the environmental benefits, similar sensitivity analyses show that the IERR
of the project incorporating environmental benefits would decrease to 12 percent in the case
of one of the following occurrences: (a) the coal price increases by 100 percent, to Y 980/tce;
(b) the electricity sales price decreases by 22 percent, to Y 0.476/kWh (VAT included,
compared with current sales price of 0.610 Y/kWh); and (c) the power plant operation is
reduced to about 3,360 hours.

Risk Analysis

The risk analysis was also preformed for the base case using a probabilistic method to assess
the impact of the perceived risk factors, including coal price, annual generation/utilization
hours, willingness-to-pay, and the project's operation and maintenance (O&M) cost. The
same methodology was adopted at appraisal. Table A3.2 presents the assumed value ranges
and the probability distribution used in the ICR.




                                               22

                Table A3.2. Selected Risk Variables and Assumed Probability Distributions
No.    Variable                 Probability                                     Probability
                                Distribution
1      Coal Price               discrete          Decrease by 20%               10%
                                                  Decrease by 10%               10%
                                                  Assumed value *               60%
                                                  Increased by 10%              10%
                                                  Increased by 10%              10%
2      Generation               discrete          Decreased by 20%              20%
                                                  Decreased by 10%              20%
                                                  Assumed value *               50%
                                                  Increased by 10%              10%
3      Willingness-to-pay       discrete          Decreased by 20%              20%
                                                  Decreased by 10%              20%
                                                  Assumed value *               50%
                                                  Increased by 10%              10%
4      O&M cost                 discrete          2% of investment              25%
                                                  3% of investment              50%
                                                  3.5% of investment            25%
* Assumed values refer to those adopted in the deterministic economic analysis.

The results, based on 1,000 Monte Carlo simulations, are summarized in Table A3.3 and
Figure A3.1.

                                 Table A3.3 Expected IERR and Variance
Expected IERR                                                               23.5%
Standard deviation                                                           3.2%
Minimum                                                                     15.3%
Maximum                                                                     31.0%
Coefficient of variation                                                     0.137
Probability of negative outcome                                              0.0%




                                                      23

                                                     Figure A3.1. Project Risks


                                                  Probability Distribution of IERR


                                   0.18
                                   0.16
                                   0.14
                                   0.12
             lity
                                    0.1
                                   0.08
                 obabi             0.06
                      pr
                                   0.04
                                   0.02
                                      0

                                      .0%  .8%   .6%     4%  .2%     0%   .8%  .6%    4%     2%  .0%
                                     14   15    17    19.   21    23.   24    26   28.    30.  32



                                                   Cumulative Probability of IERR


                                   100%


                                    80%


                                    60%
                        ility

                             obab   40%
                                 pr

                                    20%


                                     0%
                                      0.0%    5.0%    10.0%   15.0%    20.0%   25.0%    30.0%   35.0%



Both the sensitivity analysis and risk analysis show high robustness of the project's economic
rationality and low risk.




                                                                24

B.     Financial Analysis

1.    At appraisal, the finances of the SMEPC, the implementing agency, were reviewed and
analyzed. The company's financial performance was found to be satisfactory historically.
Although the rate of return on equity was modest at the time (about 6 percent for 1995 and
1996), the level was higher than the national average for the power sector. Its capital
structure was considered to be rather conservative, with debt under 45 percent of total debt
and equity. Based on a set of assumptions made during project preparation, the financial
projections demonstrated that the SMEPC was financially viable, and was expected to
maintain and further strengthen its financial position, with all key indicators improving over
the projection period 1997­2005.

2.    To promote continued prudent financial management and adequate tariff levels, four
financial covenants were agreed under the project: (a) debt service coverage ratio of no less
than 1.5 at all times; (b) a rate of return on equity of no less than 8 percent for 1998 and 1999,
10 percent for 2000 and 2001, 12 percent for 2002 and 2003, and 15 percent for 2004 and
thereafter; (c) submission of annual audit reports; and (d) annual submission of rolling eight-
year financial projections. The project also included a TA and training component to help
develop and improve the accounting and financial management systems of the SMEPC (refer
to the main report and Annex 2).

3.    During project implementation, all covenants had substantially been met with the
exception of (b). Even though the SMEPC remained financially viable at all times, its rates of
return never reached the agreed levels. Anomalies in sector accounting practices, such as
understatement of revenue (consumer contributions not reflected as income) and
overstatement of expenses (depreciation as high as 7­8 percent per year for assets with useful
lives of 30 years or longer), made the SMEPC's financial situation look weaker. After the
2002 sector unbundling, it became apparent as the former SMEPC divested its generally more
profitable generation assets to become a transmission and distribution (T&D) company, that
the converted rates on equity were too high. At the same time, the SMEPC indicated its
intention to transfer the loan and its implementing responsibilities to the WPGC, which
required amendment of the Project Agreement. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank
agreed to drop this covenant. The Project Agreement amendment was eventually processed
when the restructuring of the sector was completed in 2005.

4.    After transfer of the project assets and liabilities to the WPGC, a new PA between the
Bank and WPGC was signed. A set of financial covenants similar to those with the SMEPC
was agreed. It included minimum debt service coverage ratios, and annual submission of
audit reports and eight-year rolling financial projections. Because the new company's initial
cash flow was tight, it was agreed that the debt service coverage ratio covenant would
progressively increase from 1.1 in 2005 to 1.3 2006 and to reach 1.5 times by 2007.

5.    The first full year of operation of WGQ II was 2005. This coincided with the time
frame of the financial covenants agreed under the new PA. As summarized in Table A3.4, for
2005 and 2006, revenue levels were adequate to cover the full costs of operation,
maintenance, depreciation, and financing charges, and generate profits for the company in



                                                 25

both years. The covenants have been met in full. The latest set of financial projections
available at the time of project completion was for the eight-year period 2006­13. Key
financial indicators for the forecast period and main assumptions used for the forecast are also
summarized in the table.

         Table A3.4: The WPGC's Key Financial Indicators and Main Assumptions Used
                          for the Eight-Year Financial Projections, 2006­13

                                                                                  Projected
                      Indicators                       Actual       Actual         Average
                                                        2005         2006          2007­13
Operating Revenue (RMB Y million)                      4,064         4,141          3,871
Operating ratio (operating cost/op. revenue)            77%          78%             81%
Average tariff fen/kWh (includes VAT and FGD            38.4          40.3           40.5
cost at 1.5 fen/kWh)
Net income (RMB Y million)                              728           541            404
Rate of return on net fixed assets                      8.7%         6.9%            7.3%
Debt as % of debt and equity                            58%          55%             44%
Debt service coverage ratio (times)                      2.2          1.6             2.8

                           Main Assumptions Used for the Projections
Power generation (both units of WGQ II) p.a.                        10,075 GWh
Inflation rate                                                        2.0% p.a.
Exchange rate yuan per U.S. dollar                                      8.07
Interest rates and financing charges                            per loan agreements
Fuel ­ coal                                                          Y 465/ton
  Oil                                                                Y 5,400/ton
Depreciation                                                          7.7% p.a.
Income tax and other taxes                                     per government policies
Accounts receivable                                                   1 month
Accounts payable                                           1% of inventory plus 5% of fuel
Distribution of retained earnings ()                        100%, payable the year after

6.     The main assumptions that were used are considered reasonable and realistic.
According to the projections prepared, the WPGC is expected to remain financially viable.
All financial covenants are expected to be met in full in the foreseeable future.




                                                26

    Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members



          Names                           Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
 Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun     Task Manager                          EA2IN  Task Team Leader
 Noureddine Berrah        Principal Energy Specialist           EA2IN  Energy Specialist
 Shigeru Kataoka          Consultant (Power Engineer)           EA2IN  Power Engineer
 Junhui Wu                Power Engineer                        EA2IN  Power Engineer
 Bernard Baratz           Principal Environmental Specialist    EMTEN  Environment
 Ranjit Lamech            Restructuring Specialist              IENPD  Restructuring
 Clifford Garstang        Legal Counsel                         LEGEA  Legal
 Tomoko Matsukawa         Cofinancing Officer                   CAPPF  Financial
 Patricia Brereton-Miller Operations Officer                    EA2DR
 Tosun Arincanli          Consultant (Resettlement Specialist)  EA2IN  Resettlement
 Jianping Zhao            Energy Specialist                      RMC
 Norma Leon               Team Assistant                        EA2IN


Supervision/ICR
 Bernard Baratz           Consultant                            EASTE  Environment
 Noureddine Berrah        Lead Energy Specialist                EASTE  Task Team Leader
                                                                       (Supervision)
 Weigong Cao              Consultant                            EASTE  Power Engineer
 Ivy H. Cheng             Consultant                            EASTE  Financial Analyst
 Nina Eijima              Lawyer                                EASTE  Legal
 Clifford Garstang        Lawyer                                EASTE  Legal
 Mohammad Farhandi        Acting Sector Director                EASTE
 Ranjit Lamech            Sector Leader                         EASTE  Task Team Leader (ICR)
 Haixia Li                Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO  Financial
 Chau-ching Shen          Financial Management Specialist       LOAG2  Financial
 K. Sheorey               Consultant                            EASTE  Procurement/Technical
 Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun     Operations Manager                    EACCF  Task Team Leader
 Masaki Takahashi         Power Engineer                        ETWEN  Technical
 Junhui Wu                Sector Manager                        EASTE
 Zhu Youxuan              Consultant                            EASTE  Resettlement
 Jianping Zhao            Senior Energy Specialist              EASTE
 Cristina Hernandez       Program Assistant                     EASTE




                                                  27

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                   n.a                       125.04
  FY97                                   n.a.                      264.80
                         Total:                                    389.84
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                   n.a.                        5.50
  FY98                                   n.a.                       29.87
  FY99                                   n.a.                       71.97
  FY00                                   6                          82.87
  FY01                                   4                          49.31
  FY02                                   5                         162.76
  FY03                                   4                         102.41
  FY04                                   3                          57.51
  FY05                                   3                          69.41
  FY06                                   1                          55.20
  FY07                                   2                          62.64
                         Total:         28                         749.45
Note:
n.a Not available




                                     28

            Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None.




                           29

           Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None.




                                 30

       Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Project Preparation

Internal Project Approval.       With support from the Chinese government and under the
leadership of the SMEPC, the project began exploring options for main power plant
equipment (unit type and size) and the use of foreign capital in 1992.          In 1995, with
agreement from the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), the project was
proposed to be included in the World Bank lending program. Final project proposal was
approved by NDRC in May 1997.

Project Preparation, Appraisal and Approval. From early 1996, the SMEPC, sponsored by
MOF, utilized a World Bank (WB) Technology Cooperation Credit to prepare the project's
feasibility study, and organized visits to the United States, Japan, and Europe to gather
information about large-capacity, coal-fired units. After thorough technical investigations, the
SMEPC selected the fairly new technology of 900 MW tandem compound generation unit.
This was the first of its kind in China.

In March 1996, a WB mission visited Shanghai to discuss various aspects of the project and
the SMEPC's reform plan, and proposed specific requirements and tentative processing time
schedule for the loan. In June 1996, the WB delegation visited Shanghai again and highly
valued the progress made. The project was preappraised in November 1996 and appraised in
March 1997.      The loan was approved in July 1997.          During the one­and-a-half-year
preparation period, all conditions were successfully met. This showcased a good example of
how a large-scale, WB loan­assisted project could be prepared in China. It also proved that
the cooperation between the SMEPC and the World Bank was effective and efficient.

Project Execution and Achievements

In February of 1999, NDRC approved the feasibility study report. The main contracts for
boiler and turbine islands went into effect the same month. The SMEPC was instrumental in
convincing the central government and Shanghai Municipal Government to proceed with the
project, despite the uncertainties of the ongoing sector reform. After separation of the
Waigaoqiao power plant from the SMEPC power grid management in 2002, the WPGC
became the new owner of the project. However, both companies continued to be responsible
for project construction, and together they overcame many difficulties to bring the project to
successful conclusion.

The main achievements of the power generation plant are the following:

        (a) The timetable for completion was basically consistent with the appraisal schedule;
        (b) Project quality has won various industry prizes in China (for example, in
            engineering for the large units and main building);




                                               31

        (c) Compared to similar units in the world, the power plant had a lower construction
            cost (less than US$750/kW); and
        (d) By end-2006, cumulative electricity generated reached 28,700 GWh.

The plant was named "Superior Unit during Summer Peak" by both the East China and
Shanghai Power Grids in successive years for the role it played in alleviating power shortages
in Shanghai.

As part of the project, the SMEPC built two 500 kV circuits (Yanghang­Waigaoqiao­Gulu)
and the Gulu transformer substation. This ensured the successful transmission of electricity
generated from the power plant. The 500 kV two-circuit grid also greatly strengthens the
safety and stability of the power grid in Shanghai.

On land acquisition and resettlement, the project fully complied with the relevant regulations
and principles stipulated by the Shanghai Municipal Government and the World Bank. The
involved residents and enterprises have restored or restructured their livelihoods, and the
resulting standards of living and production have been maintained and, in most cases,
improved. The project component achieved its goals, and the effect under the land acquisition
is positive and favorable.

On system reform, the SMEPC invited foreign consulting experts to carry out its company
reform study based on the national power system reform requirements. During early stages of
the reform some generation plants became joint ventures that are independent companies with
legal status, and were earmarked to be listed at home or abroad. According to the central
government's directive, the SMEPC was separated from all generation plants in 2002. After
the reform, the SMEPC has been operating as a commercial enterprise, with improved
transparency and standardization.

During execution of the financial management information system TA component, the
SMEPC decided to use the loan funds to help develop an ERP system for the entire company.
A world-renowned international consulting company was selected to implement a pilot. The
full ERP system was completed and put into operation in 2005. This enhanced the SMEPC's
efficiency greatly, and the results are satisfactory.

Besides supporting the power sector reform and contributing to the economic development
and social stability in Shanghai, the project also produced the following benefits:

        (a) Standardization of tendering--the project followed the WB's Procurement
            Guidelines, and strictly adhered to international practices. This ensured quality
            and reduced cost;
        (b) Innovative contract management--well-managed progress tracking and payments
            kept construction on schedule and cost well within budget;
        (c) Attention to environment protection--all related performance indicators passed
            national inspection and complied with WB requirements;




                                                 32

       (d) High performance units--the Waigaoqiao II power plant reached 100 percent
           automation and the designed coal consumption of 283 g/kWh for power generating
           is exceptional for China;
       (e) Efficient staff training that is appropriate for the companies' needs--with the
           completion of the project; many talents have been nurtured to take part in the
           1,000 MW-scale power projects now under construction in China;
       (f) Upgrade in the capacity of domestic industry for the manufacture of power
           equipment; and
       (g) Good management after project completion, and establishment of a model for
           future large power plants.

After persistent efforts of three to five years, the WPGC aspires to become a first-rate thermal
power company in the world.

Project Evaluation

The SMEPC and WPGC cooperated with the WB project team over a 10-year period. All the
WB project officials brought us great help and support, particularly during the appraisal and
supervision stages. The cooperation is fruitful, we are highly satisfied with the project's
execution and the benefits achieved, we are also highly satisfied with the work and efforts
made by the WB. In conclusion, we aim to continue to contribute towards the stable and
sustainable economic development of Shanghai by achieving excellence in all aspects of
operation.




                                                 33

    Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                  34

                    Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents



· The SMEPC's and WPGC's Project Summary Report.

· The SMEPC's and WPGC's Summary Report on Implementation of the Resettlement
  Action Plan of the Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project.

· The SMEPC's and WPGC's Summary report on Implementation of the Environmental
  Protection Plan of Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project.

· Project progress reports.

· Project files, containing full records of project preparation and supervision aide-
  memoires and reports.

· WGQ II future operation plan (2005­10).




                                          35

                               117°                                                    118°                  Linyi                            119°                                                       120°                                                  121°                                     122°
            35°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35°
                                                              S H A N D O N G                                                                                                              Y e l l o w                                                                         CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WAIGAOQIAO THERMAL
                              |

                              |                                                                                                                    Ganyu
                               |                                                                                                                                                                     S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POWER PROJECT
                                 |

                               Pei Xian
                                  |
                                    |                                                                                                                                                  Lianyungang
                         To          |

                           Yang                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST CHINA POWER GRID
                                       |                                                                                                                           Lianyungangshi
                                        |                 |  | | |  | |
                                                                        |  |                                                       Donghai
                                                                              |
                               cheng    |                                       |
                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNDER
                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING           CONST.    PLANNED   PROJECT
                                          |                                       |

                                            |                            | |  |  |  |

                                                  |      RENGZHUANG                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                         500kV POWER LINES
                                                                                       |
                                                   | | | |        |                                        Xinyi
                                                           |   |
                                                             |                          |                                                                 Guanyun
                                                                                          |
                                                  Xuzhou                                   Pizhou
                                                                                            |
            Tongshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THERMAL POWER PLANTS
                                                                                               |                                                                      XinyiHe

                                                                                                |         Luoma                                                                                 Xiangshui
                             SHANBAO                                                             |         Hu                                                                                                                                                                                   HYDRO POWER PLANT
                                                                                                   |                                                                 Guannan
                                                                                                    |                                      Shuyang            He

                                                                                                     | |                                                                                                                                                                                        NUCLEAR POWER PLANT
           34°                                                                                            |   Suqian                                    tang                                                Binhai

                                                                                                               |                                  Beiliu                                                                 He
                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                 Suining                        |
                                                                                                                 |    |                                                                          Zonqu
                                                                                                                        |   |
                                                                                                                          |      |                                                                Funing    Sheyang               Sheyang
                                                                                                                                  |                                     Lianshui                                                                                                                DC-AC CONVERSION
                                                                                                                                    |
                                                                                                                                      |Siyang
                                                                                                                                        |                                                                 Tongyu                                                                                STATIONS
                                                                                                                                         |             Huaiyan

                         Suzhou                                                                                                           |
                                                                                                                           Chengzi                                         Guangai
                                                                                                                                           |             Huaiyin
                                                                                                                                             | | | | |   |

                                                                                     Sixian                                                                    Huai'an                                           Yu
                                                                                                                                                            |
                                                                                                                                          HUAIYIN                                                        Jianhu
                                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                           Sihong                                                                                                  nhe
                         FUDONG                                                                                                   Hu                Subei      |
                                                                                                                                                             Yunhe|
                                                                                                                                                                  Da                                                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yancheng
                                                                                                                                                                   |
                                                                                                                                       Longze                        |
                                          Guzhen                                                                                                                                                                            YANCHENG                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                         Hongze Hu
                                                                                                                                                                       |

                                                                                                                                                                        | Baoying                                                                                                       RIVERS AND CANALS
                                                                                                                                                   San   He               |
                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                            Dafeng
                                                                                       Wuhe                                                                                  |     J I A N G S U                                                                               |  |  |  GRAND CANAL
                                                                                                                                                      Jinhu                    |

                                                                                                                                                                              |
           33°                               Bengbu                                                                           Xuyi
                                                                                                                                                                              |                    Xinghua                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES         33°
                                                                                                                                                                      Gaoyou|                                                He         Dongtai
                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           PINGYU                                                                            Jiashan                                                                    Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                   Dongtai
                                                   LUOHE                                                                                                              Gaoyou|                                                                                                           (INSET)
                                                                                                                                           Tianchang                              |

                                                                                                                                                                                   |

                                                                                                                                                                                    |

                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xintongyang       Yunhe               Hai'an

                                                                                                                                                                             Jiangdu                            Taizhou      Jiangyan                                                              East China
                                                                                                          BUCHU                                                    Yangzhou          |             JIANGDU                                          Rugao
                                                                                                                                              Luhe
                                                                                                                                                    YANGZHOU                        |                                                                                                 Rudong
                                                                                                                                                                                   |

                                                                                                                                                                 Yizheng                                   Yangzhong                           YANGDONG                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                Jiang              Zhenjiang               |                          Taixing
                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                     Nantong
                                                                                                                            Jiangpu         NANJING                                          |

                                                                                                                                                                   JINLING                  |
            32°                                                        HEFEI                                                                                                                   Danyang                                                                              NANTONG                         32°
                                                                                                                                               Jiangning                                      |                        Jingjiang                         Nantong
                                                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
                                                                                                                           Chang          LONGTAN                Jurong                              |                  Jiangyin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Zhangjiagang
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Da  |
                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                   Haimen
                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
                                        A              N        H         U          I                                                                                                               Changzhou|              LIGANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

                                                                                                            Ma'anshan                                  DONGSHANQIAO                            Jintan             |                                                                               Qidong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

                                                                                                                                                                                           WUNAN                 Yunhe| |                                                            Chang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |               DOUSHAN
                                                                                                                                                        Lishui                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                      CHANGSHU
                                                FEIXI                                                                                                                                                                              |                Changshu
                                                                                                                 Jiang                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wuxi      |                                                       Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                Taicang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
                                                                                                           MAANSHAN                                                                                                                          |                           Kunshan                SHIDONGKOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                      Wuhu                                                              Liyang                                                      SHIPAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                             SHANGHAI
                                                                                                  Chang                                     Gaochun                                                        Yixing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Suzhou                YANGHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tai Hu            SHENGPU|         |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WAIGAOQIAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wujiang       |                         HUANGDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     YANGGAO
                                   To                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
                                        Three                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SIJING
            31°                                      Gorges                        FANCHANG                Fanchang                                                                                                                                     |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                            GULU            31°
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Changxing                                               |
                                  To Gezhouba                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                         SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                               NANQIAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |  Jiaxing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                      HANGZHOU BAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JIAXING

                                                                                                                                                                           TIANHUANGPIN                                                                                       QIN SHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PINGYAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HANGDONG

                                                                                                                                                                                                           HANGZHOU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Xiaoshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANTING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Shaoxing                                            YUYAO                    30°


                         0           25                 50           75            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ningbo
                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                          Zhuji                                                                         BEILUNGANG

                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                  acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xiangshan
                                                                                         118°




                                RUSSIAN FEDERATION


                                                                                                                      29°                                                                        Jinhua

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Z H E J I A N G                                                                                                  29°

                                                                                      HEILONGJIANG                                                                                                                                                                               Linhai

                                                                                                                                                                                                   JINHUA
                            M O N G O L I A
                                                                          L              J I L I N
                                                                       O
                                                                     G                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Huangyan
                                                                   N
                                                                O
                                                              M                  LIAONING

                                                                                              DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                    N E I
                                                                BEIJING                       REP. OF KOREA
                                                                        Beijing                                                                                                                                   Lishui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wenling
                                                                        TAINJIN
                                                                  HEBEI                              REP. OF
                                                                                                     KOREA
                                               XIA        SHANXI                         Yellow
                                              G                        SHANDONG            Sea
                                            IN                                                                                                                                                                            Qingtian
                                           N                                                                          28°
                  QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yuhuan

                                  GANSU
                                                              HENAN            JIANGSU       Area of
                                                   SHAANXI                                   map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WENZHOU                                                                         28°

                                                                        ANHUI           SHANGHAI

                                                            HUBEI

                             SICHUAN                                                               E a s t
                                         CHONGQING                                ZHEJIANG
            XIZANG                                                                                C h i n a
                                                                                                    S e a
                                                           HUNAN     JIANGXI

                                         GUIZHOU                              FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                           East China
                                                                                           TAIWAN
MARCH                     YUNNAN
                                                     GUANGXI    GUANGDONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD
                                                                        HONG KONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea
                                                                                                                                J I A N G X I
                                                                      MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28487R
                  ANMAR             VIETNAM
     2007                                                                  South
                       MY      LAO
                             PEOPLE'S
           THAILAND            DEM.                       HAINAN       China Sea
                               REP.                                                       PHILIPPINES                                              119°                                                            120°                                                     121°                                   122°

