Report No. PIC4006
Project Name              China-Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project (@#)
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Thermal
Project ID                CNPE44485
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency       Contact: Mr. Zhang Fulou
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
181 Nanjing Dong Road
Shanghai, China
Beneficiary               Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
Financing Plan
Million US$
IBRD                                      400.0
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Co.     216.2
East China Electric Power Group Co.       108.1
Shenergy Company Limited                  216.2
Local Banks                               703.8
Cofinancing                               500.0
Total                                    2144.3
Background
1.   China Power Sector.   China is currently the world's
second largest producer of electricity. During the 1980-95
period, installed generating capacity increased from 66
gigawatts (GW) to about 217 GW, and electricity generated
increased from 300 terawatt hours (TWh) to 1,007 Twh, at
annual growth rates of 8.3 and 8.4 percent, respectively.
Successful measures to improve the efficiency of electricity
use continue to be implemented in attempts to reduce the need
for new generating capacity, as is installed by the low 0.86
elasticity ratio of electricity demand growth to GDP growth
achieved by China during 1980-95. Nevertheless, China's
economic development continues to be restrained by electricity
shortages and bottlenecks in the transmission system. It is
estimated that generating capacity must increase by between 15
to 20 GW per year for the next five years if the shortages are
not to become more acute.
2.   China recently undertook two important steps in legal and
regulatory reform agenda for the power sector. First, the
Standing Committee of the 17th session of the National
People's Congress passed the first 'Electricity Law of the
People's Republic of China', which became effective on April
1, 1996. Second, the State Council (a) approved the creation
of the National Grid Company which will operate the future
(inter-regional) transmission network; and (b) proposed for
consideration by the National People's Congress a
restructuring plan that provides for abolition of Ministry of



Electric Power (MOEP) and transfer of regulatory and policy
functions to the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC),
the State Planning Commission (SPC), and the China Electricity
Council. A National Power Cooperation of China has been
created and entrusted with the ownership functions of the
central government and development of the inter-regional
transmission systems.
3.   Several joint venture companies have been established to
build several power plants with capacity ranging from 40 to
700 MW. Two major joint venture projects have been recently
approved in Shangdong (Rizhao coal-fired power plant - 2x350
MW) and in Shanghai Municipality (Zhedian gas turbines plant -
4x100 MW). Build, operate and transfer (BOT) schemes have
also been introduced in China, most notably the privately
financed Shajiao B and Shajiao C thermal power plants in
Guangdong Province, respectively commissioned in 1986 and
1996. Another major BOT project sponsored by two
international consortia was approved by SPC in 1993 in Fujian
Province (Meizhouwan coal-fired power plant - 2x350 MW). The
process of international competitive tendering for projects
has also begun. SPC approved the Laibin B project in the
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region to be the first power project
to pilot the international competitive bidding framework. SPC
invited 12 of 31 companies/consortia that sought
prequalification to bid competitively for the Laibin B
project. Six international consortia participated in the
competition. Bids were opened in May 1996 and an 18-year
concession was awarded to the winning consortium on November
11, 1996. Bids will be shortly issued for the Wangchen
project in Hunan Province.
4.   China's Power Sector Policies.   National policy placed
primary emphasis on the addition of 300 MW- and 600 MW-units
in the system. The Government also would like to begin
construction of even larger units to achieve economies of
scale. The policy is aimed at improving the efficiency of the
generation system, reducing generation costs and minimizing
adverse impacts on the environment. However, new projects
have lagged behind demand, largely due to difficulties in
mobilizing the necessary large investment resources for new
capacity based on large units. A disturbing consequence is
that some local governments, pressed by acute shortages of
electricity, are continuing to invest in large numbers of new,
small, coal-fired power plants based on obsolete, polluting
technology, in unit sizes of 50 MW or less.
5.   China has a sound record of energy/electricity
conservation. Various measures to improve the efficiency of
electricity use have been introduced in attempts to reduce the
need for new generating capacity. These measures have been
successful, as is indicated by the low ratio of elasticity of
growth in electricity demand to GDP growth of 0.86 achieved
during the last decade. However, energy/electricity
conservation programs have been based primarily on policies
- 2-



and programs appropriate for the previous planned economy.
The Government is now promoting a shift in the energy
conservation programs to rely more on market-based incentives
and introduce innovative and commercially-based contractual
and financing mechanisms. The Bank will assist the Government
in furthering these objectives through a stand-alone project
(FY98).
6.   The Government is continuing to encourage efficient
energy use through energy price increases. Significant
progress has been made in many ways to simplify the tariff,
improve its structure and bring it into line with costs.
Consumer prices for electricity now reflect economic costs
reasonably well in many provinces. However, there is a need
for price increases to meet long-run marginal costs in some
provinces, especially those where generation is mostly based
on hydropower and/or power sector reforms are progressing at
a slower pace.
7.   The Shanghai Municipal Power Grid.   The Shanghai
Municipal Power Grid (SMPG) is an important part of the East
China Grid which covers the provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui, and
Zhejiang and the Shanghai Municipality. Greater Shanghai is
one of the main load centers of the East China Grid. The
effective capacity of SMPG at the end of 1995 was 6,828.5 MW
and the maximum demand experienced was 6,916 MW. The peak
demand on the grid is projected to increase to 11,600 MW by
the year 2000 at an annual average growth rate of 10.9%.
There is therefore an urgent need to increase the supply
capabilities of the grid to reduce power shortages.
8.   As Shanghai is at the forefront of China's reform, SMEPC
was selected by the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) to be
listed as a pilot shareholding company in 1992. However, it
did not materialize because of the unfavorable international
stock markets and tight control of the expansion of the
domestic markets. In 1995, MOEP decided to reform the sector
following the purchasing agency model to allow private
involvement only in power generation. SMEPC therefore
submitted a revised reform plan, including listing of its
generation assets, to MOEP in November 1995. MOEP approved
the listing plan and allocated a quota of RMB 30 million for
domestic shares to SMEPC in April 1996. An additional quota
of RMB 30 million is expected to be allocated by Shanghai
Municipality. To prepare for the listing, SMEPC employed a
reputable international accounting firm to reconstruct its
financial statements in accordance with international
standards. Recently, SMEPC was selected by the State Council
as one of 38 enterprises eligible for public listing on the
overseas stock exchanges.
9.   In the past few years, taking the opportunity of the
increasingly market-oriented environment, SMEPC borrowed
twice, $50 million in each transaction, from the syndication
markets to finance the construction of Waigaoqiao phase I and
- 3 -



the associated transmission line (220 kV) in the Pudong area.
Recently, it formed a joint venture (The Shanghai Zhadian Gas
Turbine Power Generation Co. Ltd.) with GE Capital of USA to
have built a 4x100 MW combined cycle power plant.
Project Objectives
10. The primary objectives of the project are to: (a)
increase electricity supply to reduce the acute power
shortages in Shanghai through development of two very large
coal-fired thermal units; (b) develop a program to apply for
the first time in China the 'bubble concept' for cost
effective air quality management within Shanghai Municipality;
(c) support the ongoing power sector reform by restructuring
SMEPC in line with the power sector reform strategy;
encouraging private sector involvement through listing of the
generation company; and rationalizing the tariff structure as
well as adjusting the tariff level to accommodate the stricter
sulfur dioxide emission standards; and (d) promote an
innovative and diversified financing model for a large
infrastructure project and improve the access of power
entities to international financial markets.
Project Description
11. The proposed project is intended to support economic
investments to augment power supplies while at the same time
developing a cost-effective approach to control the sulfur
dioxide emissions in the Shanghai area and advancing the
sector reform program. The major investment components will
be in: (a) the power station and associated transmission line
construction; (b) application of the most suitable
desulfurization technologies in the existing priority (more
polluting) power plants; and (c) technical assistance to
support reform and institutional strengthening.
12. The Waigaoqiao Power Station. The Waigaoqiao Power Plant
is located in the Pudong New Area of Shanghai at the mouth of
the Yangtze river, which is about 18 km away from the city
center. Following the completion of the first phase of the
Waigaoqiao power plant (4X300MW) in 1997, SMEPC plans to
initiate the second phase of development of the site through
the construction of two coal-fired supercritical units of
900-1000 MW each, followed by a third and final phase of
installation of another 18,00-2,000 MW.
13. The station will be the first two supercritical coal-
fired units of 900-1000 MW in China. This very large thermal
unit is a new technology in China. There are only 27 coal-
fired thermal power plants of this size currently under
operation and another 11 under construction, all in the US,
Japan, and Germany. The selection of a unit size and type
which has not yet tried in the country for this plant is based
on an extensive evaluation of all technically possible options
to optimize the development of the site (located in Pudong,
- 4 -



one of the fastest growing areas in the world) and meet the
very strict environmental standards of the Shanghai area.
During the evaluation, the following parameters were
considered: (a) steam condition - super-critical or sub-
critical; (b) type of turbine - tandem compound or cross
compound; (c) unit size -4X90OMW, 4X1000MW, or 5X600MW; and
(d) type of boiler - variable pressure or constant pressure.
14. Pudong, where the power plant is located, is an
industrial area experiencing rapid development and electric
load growth. The plant site has had most of the necessary
infrastructure in place as this is the second phase
construction. Thus, installing more capacity at Waigaoqiao
will increase overall energy efficiency and make an optimal
use of the site. Due to the scarcity of suitable sites and
the high cost of land in Shanghai, and in Pudong in particular
($150-300 per square meter), the available sites must be
developed to their full potential. A study conducted jointly
by the East China Electric Power Design Institute and Sargent
and Lundy concluded that 900-1,000 supercritical units will
provide the most economic efficiency for coal-fired generation
units for the Waigaoqiao site.
15. SMPG is currently the size of a typical medium sized
utility in the US and by the year 2000, it will be the size of
a typical large utility in the US. Many of the medium sized
utilities in the US have units that are 900 MW or greater, and
aost all of the large utilities in the US have units of 900 MW
or greater. A 900 MW unit represents 11.8t of the current
(1995) available capacity of SMPG and 2.7w of the current
available capacity of the ECEPG, but less than 7t of the total
planned available capacity of the SMPG and less than 2t of the
ECEPG by the time the first unit would be placed in service.
Therefore, the addition of either a 900 MW or 1000 MW unit to
the SMPG and ECEPG will have no impact on system stability.
16. The generating units of the proposed project will be
designed to burn good quality coal produced at the Shenmu and
Dongsheng mines in Shaanxi Province and Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region (heating value of 5,445 kcal/kg, 0.43 sulfur
content, 11-15 W ash content for design coal and 0.63w sulfur
content for check coal). Under the proposed project, a coal
quality monitoring system and an on-line performance
monitoring system will be provided to ensure optimum operation
of the plant and advanced maintenance methods to be
introduced.
17. All power generated by the plant will be fed to SMPG and
is intended primarily for supply to Shanghai. The plant will
be connected to the grid through two 500 kV transmission
lines. The Yang Hang - Yang Gao 500 kV line, which is
currently in the planning stage, will be looped into the plant
site. The proposed project includes construction of the 500
kV transmission line (2 circuits x 50 km) with associated
substations.
-5-



18. The proposed Waigaoqiao project is well within the
Chinese National Standards for sulfur dioxide emissions (5.29
to 7.9 actual versus 10.03 tons/hr allowed), the Bank current
guidelines (20.8 tons/hr) and the draft Bank guidelines (11.66
tons/hr). Therefore, flue gas desulfurization equipment will
not be installed initially but space will be provided for
their subsequent installation if required by future
environmental standards. However, the proposed project will
include an environmental component to reduce sulfur dioxide
emissions in existing priority plants by at least the same
amount emitted by the proposed project. Low NOx burners will
be provided and high efficiency Electrostatic Precipitators
(ESP) will be installed to meet Chinese emission standards and
the Bank's guidelines.
19. The Environmental Protection Program The proposed
project will provide support for one of China's first major
initiatives to control sulfur dioxide emissions from thermal
power plants. In the past, sulfur dioxide emissions control
measures in China's power sector have been limited primarily
to control of coal quality and a few pilot projects in flue-
gas desulfurization (FGD) and fluidized-bed combustion,
primarily in areas reliant on very high-sulfur coal.
Following enactment of new national legislation on air
pollution control, expanded efforts to control overall sulfur-
dioxide emissions will need to be undertaken in East China,
where low-sulfur coals dominate, but the density of coal
consumption causes excessive ambient sulfur dioxide
concentrations. Shanghai Municipality has taken a lead role
in this effort, by enacting new local regulations and
developing a new program of pollution control investments.
Shanghai's program, the first of its kind in China, will
include new, and critically important, retrofit investments
for sulfur dioxide control in existing power plants causing
severe air pollution problems in the Shanghai area.
20. The proposed project includes approximately $120 million
(excluding IDC) of investment to reduce sulfur dioxide
emissions in existing and highly polluting Shidongkou Phase I
power plant. The objective is to achieve the greatest
emission reductions in Shanghai's power sector at the lowest
cost, through analysis of the overall sulfur dioxide emissions
in Shanghai, and the most cost effective measures to reduce
ambient concentrations (e.g., the 'bubble' concept). The
selected FGD system represents state-of-the-art, commercially
proven technology, and will be designed for 90 percent removal
of sulfur dioxide. FGD will not be installed at Waigaoqiao,
given Waigaoqiao's use of low sulfur coal and the fact that
emission and ambient standards are not violated without FGD.
Therefore, such investment is highly uneconomic compared to
other sulfur dioxide control investments in Shanghai's power
industry. However, due to the project's desulfurization
control investments in Shidongkou, the addition of 2,000 MW of
power capacity at Waigaoqiao will result in zero or negative
growth in sulfur dioxide concentrations in Shanghai.
- 6 -



21. Technical Assistance to Support Sector and Tariff
Reforms. SMEPC is currently embarking on a restructuring
program. The main elements of the restructuring program are:
(a) Unbundling and structural separation of generation
from transmission and distribution: SMEPC will be
structured as a limited liability company for
transmission and distribution. It is planned that by
June 1998, all generation will be separated from
transmission and distribution. The objective of this
unbundling is to create a purchasing agency structure
which will encourage investment in generation, and allow
SMEPC to focus on the efficient operation of the monopoly
transmission and distribution network. The complete
structural separation of generation from transmission
would create a framework for competitive procurement of
future generation and efficient production. All non-core
business of SMEPC will be transformed into profit/cost
centers or subsidiary companies by February 1998.
(b) Efficient wholesale generation tariffs: A revised
system of wholesale electricity tariffs would be devised
for power purchase from each generating plant on the
system. These tariffs would be based on a two-part
tariff that would encourage efficient dispatch and
overall economic efficiency. All power will be purchased
by SMEPC on the basis of wholesale contractual
arrangements. Revision of wholesale electricity prices
for all generation, based on government approved
principles, and signing of power purchase agreements with
all generation plants are planned to take place in
December 1997 and February 1998, respectively. All
generators on the system will be treated equally and
dispatched on a nondiscriminatory basis.
(c) Private Financing of Generation: The generation
assets in the Shanghai power sector will be examined and
restructured to form viable generation company or
companies for subsequent listing on domestic and/or
international stock exchanges. The SMEPC was also
selected by the State Council in January 1997 as one of
thirty eight enterprises eligible for public listings on
foreign stock exchanges. Public listing of the
generation company/companies with a more diversified
ownership will also make raising debt easier in the long-
term.
22. Specialized financial and restructuring advisory
technical assistance for implementation of the planned
structure reform, as well as the formation of the generation
companies and their listing will be provided under the
proposed project. The detailed terms of reference will be
developed by an international advisory team to be recruited by
SMEPC
-7-



Beneficiary
23. The beneficiary will be the Shanghai Municipal Electric
Power Company (SMEPC). SMEPC is an experienced borrower and
has implemented a Bank financed project, Wujing Thermal Power
Project, with great success. As previously described, SMEPC
will be restructured under the proposed project. In the
course of implementing the overall reform plan of SMEPC, a
Waigaoqiao generation company will be established. The
potential shareholders for the company are SMEPC or the new
generation company to be established, East China Electric
Power Group Company (ECEPGC), and Shenergy Company Limited
(Shenergy). Therefore, the financing provided by the latter
two parties to the proposed project are structured as
convertible loans to SMEPC. Both ECEPGC and Shenergy are well
established companies. Shenergy is a listed company on the
Shanghai Stock Exchange. They maintain the option to convert
their contributions to the project into equity shares at the
time when Waigaoqiao is to be incorporated.
Project Costs and Financing
24. The total financing requirements (including IDC of $358.9
million equivalent), are estimated at $2,144.3 million
equivalent. The local costs estimated at $956.9 million
equivalent and IDC for the local and a part of IDC for foreign
loans estimated at $287.4 million equivalent will be financed
by: (i) SMEPC self-generated funds; (ii) convertible loans
from Shenergy and ECEPGC; and (iii) commercial loans from two
local banks. Financing from the first two sources, $540.5
million equivalent, will constitute about 30 percent of the
total project cost and represent about .2 percent of the total
financing required. The remaining financing requirements of
about $703.6 million equivalent will be covered by borrowings
from two local commercial banks arranged by the SMEPC,
Shenergy, and ECEPGC.
25. The foreign exchange required for the project ($828.5
million) and a part of IDC (about $71.5 million) together
estimated at $900 million will be financed by the proposed
Bank loan of $400 million and co-financing of $500 million.
The Government and SMEPC will explore co-financing options:
(i) export credits for a part of major equipment in the amount
of approximately $155 million upon the selection of lowest
evaluated bidder scheduled in October 1997; (ii) Japan EXIM's
untied loan in the amount of up to $50 million equivalent
under Accelerated Co-financing Facility for the environmental
protection component; and/or (iii) commercial co-financing.
MOF would become a Chinese counterpart (the borrower in the
case of buyer credits) in export credit financing and the
borrower for JEXIM loan for the Project. Under the proposed
qualification criteria for the major equipment packages,
including turbine generator and boiler, it is expected that
all the eligible suppliers are able to arrange export credit
co-financing. Informal sounding with Japan EXIM for the
- 8 -



possible provision of an untied loan has already been
initiated.
26. It is expected that the Government would tap the
commercial market after the approval for the proposed loan by
the Board, after the exploration of export credits/official
co-financing, and by the time of actual disbursement for the
major equipment scheduled to start in late 1999. The Bank
will provide the co-financing framework (provision of an
optional cross default clause) for such borrowing by the
Government. The Bank will also consider the provision of a
partial credit guarantee, at then minimum necessary level, if
such a guarantee would be required by the Government due to
market conditions at the time of its financing for the
Project. Such guarantee operation, if any, would be sent to
the Board for approval on a stand-alone basis.
Project Implementation
27. SMEPC will be responsible for construction and operation
of the Waigaoqiao Phase II Thermal Power Project. SMEPC has
had substantial experience in power generation, transmission
and distribution, and has been operating Shanghai Municipal
Power Grid since 1986. It also has operating experience of
supercritical units (2x600 MW coal-fired thermal units at
Shidongkou II). Preparatory works including access roads and
construction power supply started in January 1997 and have
been progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study report
was prepared by East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) in December 1993 and was updated in May 1996. Based
on the feasibility study, SMEPC and ECEPDI completed a concept
design report in August 1996. The bidding documents for the
procurement of the main boiler and turbine-generator packages
prepared by China Electric Power Technology Import and Export
Corporation with the assistance by international engineering
consultants are scheduled to be issued in April 1997 and
opened in August/September 1997. The commercial operation of
the first generating unit is expected in May 2003 and the
second unit in May 2004.
Project Justification and Benefits
28. Alternatives. The Waigaoqiao project was selected for
implementation as the result of a least-cost generation
expansion study for the East China power grid undertaken by
the Beijing Energy Research Institute (BERI). Since there is
no hydroelectric potential in the East China region, practical
alternatives to the proposed thermal power station are: (a)
coal-burning thermal power stations near Shanghai, the major
demand center; (b) mine-mouth power stations in Shanxi
Province; and (c) combined cycle plant fueled by either LNG or
distillate (diesel) fuel oil. The study shows that it is far
more economic to generate electricity close to the load center
than it is to transport the electricity to the load center.
Generation from combined cycle plant is more expensive than
-9-



the Waigaoqiao alternative because of higher fuel costs,
despite the better fuel-conversion efficiency of the combined
cycle. Moreover, power exchange within East China Grid has
also been considered in the study. The specific Waigaoqiao
site was chosen because of its location at the mouth of
Yangtze River, its favorable topographic and geologic
conditions, and because, if appropriate consideration is given
to plant design and implementation, the overall adverse
environmental impact would be low. The proposed project
remains the first choice for investment in the least-cost
investment program under a variety of sensitivity analyses.
29. Economic Justification and Benefits. The internal
economic rate of return (IERR) for the proposed project was
calculated based on the estimated plant gate power price of 47
fen/kWh (in 1995 prices) in 2003, the first year of operation.
this estimate is based on existing policies for pricing of
power output from new power plants and currently paid by SMEPC
to most recent coal-fired base load power plants. It yielded
an IERR of about 19.3 percent. This IERR, based on revenues
generated by the new power plant rather than the economic
value of a shortfall in electric power supply, underestimates
the economic benefits of the project. If the cost of the
installation of the FGD in Shidongkou power plant is added to
cost of the power plant without consideration of the benefits
of reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions, the IERR would be
reduced to 18.2 percent.
Environment and Resettlement
30. Environmental Assessment and Management Plan. In
accordance with Bank OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the
project has been assigned to Category A. A draft
Environmental Assessment Report has been prepared by ECEPDI
and SMEPC with the assistance if an international consultant
specializing in environmental issues related to thermal power
plants and submitted to the Bank for comments. The report
evaluated the environmental impact of the station not only for
the two units (1,800 - 2,000 MW total) included in the
project, but also at its projected maximum ultimate capacity
of 5,200 MW. It will assure that: (a) all environmental
aspects are satisfactorily addressed and in compliance with
all Chinese and World Bank environmental regulations, policies
and procedures; and (b) the project has been designed and will
be implemented in line with modern concepts of environmental
management.
31. Resettlement Aspects. The project design focused on
minimizing the scope of resettlement. Where land acquisition
and demolition of existing housing are unavoidable, the
resettlement action plan (RAP) provides for replacement of
housing, alternative employment, infrastructure, services and
other resources. The project requires: (a) acquisition of
about 1,272 mu of land, (b) demolition of about 41,000 square
meters of floor space; (c) relocation of 273 households and 17
- 10 -



town or village enterprises. Overall, about 1,298 people will
be affected by the project. Resettlement for the 500 kV
transmission lines has been undertaken under another project.
Arrangements for reallocation, prepared in collaboration with
local authorities and the population affected by the project,
will be in line with Chinese national and local policies.
Sustainability and Risks
32. Financial sustainability of the project is ensured
through suitable financial performance covenants. Moreover,
existing pricing policy ensures that project costs will be
fully recovered and passed on to the consumers. For example,
the average tariff for Waigoqiao phase I power plant was 57
fen/kWh in 1996. The market for the power is guaranteed
because of the acute shortages in the Shanghai Municipality.
Suitable performance monitoring indicators have been developed
which will allow impending major problems to be detected and
corrective measures taken if necessary.
33. Cost overrun risks have been minimized through thorough
review of international costs for similar projects and costs
of existing 600 MW super-critical in China, especially the
Shidongkou phase II power plant in Shanghai. The risk of delay
in project construction due to project management shortcomings
is minimal because of the recognized considerable skills and
experience of SMEPC's engineers, managers, and local and
international engineering consultants. The risk of non
performance in the environmental and resettlement area has
been addressed by the establishment of appropriate monitoring
organizations and procedures. More importantly, sensitivity
analyses show that even in the case of substantial increase in
the cost, the project would remain economically viable.
34. Delay in implementing power sector reforms in an
efficient and timely manner represents a risk that can
jeopardize the progress toward more openness and efficiency of
the sector and more fiscal and managerial autonomy of SMEPC.
This risk is minimized by the strong commitment of Chinese to
reform both at the central and municipal level. This risk is
also addressed through provision of required technical
assistance and adequate monitoring of implementation of the
agreed upon reform plan during the project cycle.
35. The economic and financial risks would be minimal. In
view of advanced preparatory works, risks associated with
project construction, cost overruns, and implementation delays
are within reasonable limits and manageable with the agreed
supervision and involvement of competent consultants.
Particular attention will be given to the safety aspects of
the project, and to capability and performance of major
contractors.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
- 11-



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997.
- 12 -



