Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4197 CHA
Project Agreement
(Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated June 12, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4197 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY (SMEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to four hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SMEPC 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Shanghai Municipality and between Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC, the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SMEPC through 
Shanghai Municipality on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS SMEPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement  and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SMEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out  
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, resettlement, technical, and 
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SMEPC shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SMEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SMEPC shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and SMEPC a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with SMEPC on said plan.
Section 2.04. SMEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SMEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SMEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SMEPC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of SMEPC 
Section 3.01. SMEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, technical 
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. SMEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental technical and public utility practices. 
Page  3
Section 3.03. SMEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SMEPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SMEPC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall earn:
(i)
for  its fiscal years ending on December 31, 1998 and December 31, 
1999, an 
annual return of not less than 8% of the average current 
value of SMEPC's 
equity; 
(ii)
or its fiscal years ending on December 31, 2000 and December 31, 
2001, an 
annual return of not less than 10% of the average 
current value of its equity;  
(iii)
for its fiscal years ending on December 31, 2002 and December 31, 
2003, an 
annual return of not less than 12% of the average 
current value of its equity; 
and 
(iv)
for its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2004, and for each of 
its fiscal 
years thereafter, an annual return of not less than 15% of 
the average current 
value of its equity.
 
(b)
Before June 1 in each of its fiscal years, SMEPC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SMEPC and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that SMEPC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for SMEPC's fiscal years covered by such 
review, SMEPC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet 
such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing SMEPC’s net 
income for the 
fiscal year in question by one half of the sum of the 
current book value of 
SMEPC's equity at the beginning and at the end 
of that fiscal year. 
(ii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-in 
Page  4
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of SMEPC not allocated 
to cover specific 
liabilities excluding consumer contributions. 
(iii)
The term "net income" means the sum of total operating revenues 
and net 
non-operating income less the sum of total operating 
expenses and interest 
payments and other charges on debt. 
(iv)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(v)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; and 
(B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above. 
(vi)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 5% per annum of the 
average current gross value of SMEPC's fixed 
assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and 
other charges on debt. 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall take all 
necessary measures, including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or the 
levels of its tariffs, to ensure that its internal cash generation for each fiscal 
year during the term of any debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its 
estimated maximum debt service requirements in such year on all debt of SMEPC, 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SMEPC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation" means the difference between: 
(A) the sum 
of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating 
income, excluding receipts from customer 
connection charges; and (B)
the sum of 
all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges 
on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B)
expenses, including rates and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt, excluding capitalized interest during 
construction. 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
Page  5
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SMEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SMEPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
   248423 (MCI),
    64145 (MCI) 
For Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company:
181 Nanjing Road (East)
Shanghai 200002
People’s Republic of China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SMEPC or by 
SMEPC on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its President, or by such other person or persons as said President shall designate in 
writing, and SMEPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC 
POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, and other 
goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods which are readily available off-the-shelf or are standard specification 
commodities and which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) international shopping 
procedures for up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, or (b) 
Page  7
with the prior agreement of the Bank, national shopping procedures, for an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, in each case in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which (a) should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or 
must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, 
and which cost $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,  or (b) are of a 
proprietary nature, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
 Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Single Source Selection
Services for construction management may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  8
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following:
A. Project 
Management 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, SMEPC shall continue 
to make available competent staff (including environmental staff organized in an 
environmental management unit) in adequate numbers and with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall coordination and 
supervision of project implementation, the supervision of procurement of goods and 
services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality and impact of the Project, and 
the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other information thereon.
B.
Project Implementation
1.
Part D of the Project: Institutional Development
SMEPC shall carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Management 
Development and Training Plan.  Without limitation upon the foregoing, SMEPC shall: 
(i) employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement not later than December 31, 1998 to assist SMEPC in the development 
of suitable accounting and financial management systems under Part D of the Project; 
(ii) ensure that said study and the proposal for said systems shall be completed and 
furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2000; (iii) afford the Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with SMEPC on said study and the proposal for 
said systems, and thereafter, but in any event not later than June 30, 2001 carry out 
the recommendations of said study and install the said systems, taking into account 
the views of the Bank on the matter; and (iv) carry out the Management Development and 
Training Program.
2.
Part E of the Project:  SMEPC Restructuring Plan
SMEPC shall: (a) employ consultants under Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement not later than December 31, 1997 to assist SMEPC in the implementation of 
the SMEPC Restructuring Plan; and (b) afford the Bank an opportunity to exchange views 
with SMEPC periodically and at least annually on SMEPC’s progress therein.
Page  9
3.
Part F of the Project: Resettlement
(a)
SMEPC shall: (i) ensure that Part A of the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank an evaluation report promptly upon completion of the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons as described in the Resettlement Action Plan.
(b)
If and to the extent that there are any persons who are involuntarily 
displaced or whose rights to land or other assets are compulsorily acquired as a 
result of SMEPC’s implementation of Part C of the Project, SMEPC shall: (i) prepare, 
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and in consultation with 
such affected persons, based on the policies, planning principles and institutional 
arrangements set forth in the Resettlement Action Plan, and shall furnish to the Bank 
for approval, a detailed resettlement action plan acceptable to the Bank for carrying 
out the compensation, resettlement or rehabilitation of such affected persons; and 
(ii) ensure that Part C of the Project is implemented in accordance with such plan, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and that all such persons shall be compensated, 
resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with such plan.
(c)
SMEPC shall prepare in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and in consultation with the affected persons based on the policies, planning 
principles and institutional arrangements set forth in the Resettlement Action Plan, 
and shall furnish to the Bank by January 31, 1998, a resettlement implementation plan 
for carrying out the compensation, resettlement or rehabilitation of all persons who 
are involuntarily resettled or whose rights to land or other assets are compulsorily 
acquired in connection with the construction of the Yanghang substation in Shanghai 
Municipality.
(d)
SMEPC shall not start construction of the Yanghang substation in Shanghai 
Municipality until the resettlement implementation plan referred to in paragraph (c) 
above, acceptable to the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank in accordance with 
Paragraph 3(c) of Part B of this Schedule 2.
(e)
SMEPC shall ensure that the land acquisition for and construction of the 
Yanghang substation in Shanghai Municipality is carried out in accordance with the 
resettlement implementation plan referred to in paragraph (c) above, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, and that all people who are involuntarily displaced or whose 
rights to land or other assets are compulsorily acquired in connection therewith, 
shall be compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with such plan.
4.  
Part G of the Project: Environmental Management
SMEPC shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with a 
time bound action plan acceptable to the Bank.
C.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
SMEPC shall:
1.
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank,  (a) the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Resettlement Action Plan and the action plans referred to in Paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of 
Part B of this Schedule, and (b) the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
2.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank semi-annual reports on or about April 30 and October 31 in each year, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
Paragraph 1 above on the progress achieved in the carrying out the Project, including 
the Resettlement Action Plan and the action plans referred to in Paragraphs 1,2 and 4 
of Part B of this Schedule, during the preceding calendar year together with any 
revisions proposed to be made in the Resettlement Action Plan or in said action plans 
in order to achieve the objectives thereof and any measures proposed to further the 
objectives of  the Project; 
3.
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to Paragraph 2 
Page  10
above hereof, and promptly introduce such revisions into the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the action plans referred to in Paragraph 1 above as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and take such measures to further the objectives of  the Project as shall 
have been agreed with the Bank;
4.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Paragraph 1 above on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period since its inception, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
5.
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in Paragraph 4 above, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
