Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4197 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4197 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Municipal Electric Power 
Company (SMEPC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to SMEPC through Shanghai Municipality the proceeds of 
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from external sources (collectively, the 
Cofinanciers) loans in an aggregate amount equivalent to five hundred million Dollars 
($500,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Page  2
SMEPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all 
persons who qualify as  an Affected Person. 
(b)
“Bubble Concept” means an approach to air quality management within a 
specified geographical area whereby reductions in sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions at 
one site within such area would offset emissions at another site.
(c)
"Charter" means the charter of SMEPC, approved under Approval No. 
881/1989, issued by Borrower’s Ministry of Energy, dated September 9, 1989, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement.
(d)
“Environmental Management Program” means SMEPC’s environmental  
management program for mitigating and monitoring the environmental impact of the 
Project, dated March 1997, based on the environmental impact assessment for the 
Project approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental Protection Agency, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(e)
“Management Development and Training Program” means SMEPC’s plan to 
strengthen its financial management capabilities, dated March, 1997, as the same may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SMEPC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
Page  3
(g)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
March 28, 1997, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons, as said resettlement plan may be supplemented and amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(h)
“Shanghai Municipality” means the Shanghai Municipality, an 
administrative sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor or successors thereto. 
(i)
“SMEPC Restructuring Plan” means the plan for the reform of SMEPC as 
prepared by SMEPC. 
(j)
"SMEPC" means Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company, a state-owned 
enterprise organized and existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to the 
Charter, and any successor or successors thereto. 
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Shanghai Municipality or the agreement to be entered into 
between Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC (as the context requires) pursuant to Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; the term 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the said agreements collectively; and the term 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided to Shanghai Municipality or SMEPC 
thereunder.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
million Dollars ($400,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
Page  4
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause SMEPC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of SMEPC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources necessary or appropriate to enable SMEPC to perform such obligations and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to SMEPC through 
Shanghai Municipality under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Shanghai Municipality and between Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by 
SMEPC in 
Dollars to the Borrower over a period not exceeding 
twenty (20) years, 
including a grace period not exceeding six (6) 
years; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by SMEPC 
shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of 
repayment) of the value of the currency 
Page  5
or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account;
(iii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest on the 
principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate equal to the 
rate payable by the Borrower from time 
to time pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of 
this Agreement; and (b) a 
commitment charge on the principal amount thereof 
not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one 
percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with Shanghai Municipality and shall cause Shanghai Municipality to exercise 
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SMEPC in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive or permit Shanghai Municipality to assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SMEPC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  6
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
SMEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SMEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of SMEPC or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of SMEPC to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SMEPC or for the suspension of 
its operations. 
(e)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 2002, with respect to at least $300,000,000 of the amount of financing to 
be obtained thereunder, and by July 31, 2005, with respect to the remainder of such 
amount, or, in each case, such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower 
for the financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor, or (B) any 
such loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; (b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject, with respect to said paragraph (e), to the proviso contained 
therein; and (c) the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on 
Page  7
behalf of the Borrower, Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SMEPC, 
and is legally binding upon SMEPC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower, Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower, Shanghai Municipality and SMEPC in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
             22486 MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
  7,500.000
100%
and training
(2)
Goods
380,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
75% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Unallocated
  12,500,000
TOTAL
 400,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of  $5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent, (b) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
 (a) 
reduce the acute electricity shortages in Shanghai Municipality through 
the development of two coal-fired supercritical thermal units to increase electricity 
supply;
Page  9
(b) 
improve air quality management in Shanghai Municipality through the 
development of a program to apply the Bubble Concept for cost effective air quality 
management;
(c)
support the Borrower’s ongoing power sector reform by restructuring SMEPC 
in line with the power sector reform strategy and increasing private sector 
involvement in the power sector; and
(d)
 improve the access of power entities to international financial markets 
through promotion of an innovative and diversified financing model for large 
infrastructure projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
Construction of two 900-1000 megawatt (MW) coal-fired supercritical thermal 
units at Pudong in Shanghai Municipality as the second phase of the Waigaoqiao power 
plant development and provision of equipment and facilities including on-line 
performance monitoring systems to minimize coal consumption and gradually introduce 
advanced maintenance techniques.
Part B
Installation of flue gas desulfurization facilities at Shidongkou Power Plant 
with capacity to at least offset the anticipated sulfur dioxide emissions from the 
supercritical thermal units to be constructed under Part A of the Project.
Part C
(1)
Construction of two 500 kilovolt (kV) transmission lines (approximately 2 
x 50km) to connect the supercritical thermal units to be constructed under Part A of 
the Project to the Shanghai Municipal Power Grid.
(2)
Construction in Shanghai Municipality of one new substation at Sanlin 
together with the installation of two 1000 megavolt-ampere (MVA), 500/220 kV 
transformers and an extension of the substation at Sijing, together with one 750 MVA, 
500/220 kV transformer.
Part D
Carrying out of a program to strengthen management of SMEPC through: (i) the 
establishment of a modern accounting and financial management system; (ii) provision 
of training to selected SMEPC staff in utility management; (iii) provision of training 
to technical staff of SMEPC in Project implementation; and (iv) upgrading and 
equipping of SMEPC’s training facilities.
Part E
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the planning and corporate restructuring 
capacity of SMEPC including: (i) review and detailed development of the planned sector 
structure, including the separation of generation and transmission/distribution into 
separate companies; (ii) development of a plan for the commercial arrangement for 
market operation; and (iii) development of a financial and corporate restructuring 
plan of the generation company, including public listing of the shares of the 
generation company on one or more stock exchanges.
Part F
Resettlement and rehabilitation of about 1900  Affected Persons.
Part G
Carrying out of an environmental management program to strengthen SMEPC’s 
environmental monitoring and management.
Page  10
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2004
9,310,000 
September 15, 2004
9,590,000 
March 15, 2005
9,880,000 
September 15, 2005
      10,180,000 
March 15, 2006
      10,480,000 
September 15, 2006
      10,800,000 
March 15, 2007
      11,120,000 
September 15, 2007
      11,450,000 
March 15, 2008
      11,800,000 
September 15, 2008
      12,150,000 
March 15, 2009
      12,520,000 
September 15, 2009
      12,890,000 
March 15, 2010
      13,280,000 
September 15, 2010
      13,680,000 
March 15, 2011
      14,090,000 
September 15, 2011
      14,520,000 
March 15, 2012
      14,950,000 
September 15, 2012
      15,400,000 
March 15, 2013
      15,860,000 
September 15, 2013
      16,340,000 
March 15, 2014
      16,830,000 
September 15, 2014
      17,340,000 
March 15, 2015
      17,860,000 
September 15, 2015
      18,390,000 
March 15, 2016
      18,950,000
September 15, 2016
      19,520,000 
March 15, 2017
      20,100,000 
September 15, 2017
      20,720,000
______________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
Page  11
exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
